ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124003	And since it's 13 o'clock now, as usual we're going to take a stand on behalf of the clubs, so the first one on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club will be spoken by the Vice President of this House of the High, Honored Representative Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We used to be in the ranks of Germany and Britain, and now we have a rival of the Republic of Croatia, writes the New York Times, commenting on the result of the annual survey of political and civil freedoms in countries in the world produced by the independent organization Frieden House, in particular, the title of the article stands, Latvia above, and the Republic of Croatia below, of course, the United States. The result was obtained on the basis of the complex score of political and civil freedoms in countries around the world. So much for the perception that the Republic of Croatia has in the free press of the United States and, of course, so much for the perception that the United States has in the same independent press. Human rights and freedoms are a social problem that exceeds politics and includes history and tradition, education, the relationship between economic development and collective consciousness that is often the product of almost endemic stereotypes related to nation, religion and race. But politics here has one enormous responsibility, not to encourage these stereotypes, but to destroy them, in order for man to have his inalienable rights regardless of origin, along with the necessary corrections that, populations that are minority by number or by rights, must have in order to have equal participation in social and political life. Based on 25 indicators, such as political rights, civil liberties, freedom of political pluralism, freedom of religion, individual freedoms, the Republic of Slovenia with 85 out of 100 points, as far as Scandinavian countries have, is considered a free country behind the United States with 86 points and with Slovenia with 95 points, the only one in the region deserves an epithet of the free country. However, the Republic of Croatia is objecting to corruption in the public sector, I would also say in private that the discrimination of certain national minorities, and when some minorities are discriminated against, all minorities must be considered to be discriminated because it is only a matter of time before their order comes, however, and the majority of them must be cautious because everyone ultimately has a minority feature, or by right, members of a minority sex or gender or gender or age, under quotes, error or always, under quotes, are wrong by sexual orientation or height, by weight, by some degree of disability, disease or by some psychological characteristics. We are all different and different and therefore susceptible, that if we need to be subject to discrimination, chicans, even though the situation escalates us to be victims of destruction. It is therefore important to stress that in the world human rights and freedoms are generally taken, in a regression of the last 13 years. Migration, if we do not know how to deal with them and if we are not involved, we will already allow the tide of migrants to find us unprepared, will reduce our level of humanity, as has already happened in some countries, and as someone here already recommends. So it doesn't matter to anyone who has to be uncomfortable, to the United States or to us, that we're standing next to each other right now, in a less and less free world. It is important that when it comes to corruption or prejudice or contempt for human destruction, it must still blow cold, and we in the Republic and in some other countries see an increase in ethnocentrism, various attempts to rehabilitate human destruction from the middle of the century, and we passively accept it. It's a special position and role, and I end up with security services. I stress this precisely, this very service, not because they are worse or better than other social current institutions, but because they represent, as Lekara would say, a psychological dictionary, a subconscious of a particular society. From the quality of such a subconscious, we will know how healthy society is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124005	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124006	Now let's go to the National Minority Representatives Club position, dear colleague Furio Radin, please. 10,23,15.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124007	Thank you very much. If something is more harmful to national minorities, more specifically, for my national minority Italian, about the unacceptable, underlining the unacceptable Thai statements is to accept the ball in love, as it seems to me that the last few days are being done abundantly and make their own election campaign out of it. In fact, it seems to me that both the atmosphere and the context that responds to Mr. Tajani's statements that are anacronistic, which belong to the rhetoric of the '50s, this atmosphere is actually used now for its own political campaign, which is a double damage. It's a double shame because in the campaign you can't not say attitudes that don't actually fit the state of things. And what's the state of things? Since one line is drawn regardless of what Mr. Tajani is President of the European Parliament and of course puts it first, but one line is drawn on which the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and Italy should actually be marked with it. Someone here was talking about that in every one, if I understood correctly, another Italian is sucking little Mussolini, it's not true, it's not true, not in every tenth, not in every twenty or thirtyth, even though it might make someone happy. Relations between Italy and the Republic of Croatia since the celebration of this day of memories this year, if possible, have been improved. The Day of Remembrance, and I remind you, the Day of Remembrance marks the departure of hundreds of thousands of people, above all the Italians, after World War II, exile actually because no one goes by their own free will and, of course, the same memory of the crimes committed on all sides, during and after World War II. The marking, the central marking on which I participated this day, took place in the Firinale, in the Firinale, meaning, the official residence of the President of the Republic, were attended and spoke by the President of the Republic, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Education, the prime minister was present, the presidents of both the Houses of Parliament and representatives of Jezula and were present also the Ambassador of the Republic, the Slovenian Ambassador and the Ambassador of Montenegro. At that gathering were told the truths about what was happening and with everyone looking at that injustice from all sides, so we all went out and the representatives of Jezula were saying, we all came out of Firinaella satisfied and we said, "This is, in fact, that's it, that's the position of official Italy." The next day also the otherwise harsh Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Salvini was very constructive and moderate in the same place where Mr. Tajani ended his speech in an unacceptable way, but it should be said, however, that the state summit of Italy has actually marked that day in a way that affirms the future by remembering the past and friendship with the Republic of Slovenia. This should be said that what is actually an isolated case and one incident that needs to be dismissed, but to return to cooperation because cooperation is the only choice, and everything else is actually, let me say it in this House, all the other policy is the campaign, everything else is actually something that wants to overshadow the good relations between Croatia and Italy that are affirmed now, they want to be shadowed with one isolated slogan performance. I want to remind you, because if someone had any damage to what happened, it's us from the Italian national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124008	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, colleague Batinić, colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124009	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague was injured by an officer. In 238 and said Tajani was a European Parliament president and prime minister's friend, it was a campaign and said that Dalmatia and Istria were. That is, Tajani is a fascist and he made a fascist statement and it is a disgrace, that the President of the European Parliament, a friend The diameter of Plenkovic, gives fascist statements and has... [[Invader President: colleague Bulj, please, time is up.]] According to Croatian territory, Dalmatia is Croatia and Istria is Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124010	Comrade Bulj, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is clear to you, you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure, in order to make your views known and you receive a warning, first today. Comrade Radin, is he hurting you? That's it, all right. And let's go to the last debate of dear fellow Furio Radin, National Minority Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124012	My debate is actually encouraged, let's say a little out of the ordinary words that have been repeatedly spoken, and, of course, my colleague Glasovic doesn't speak unusually about it, but on many occasions, we've touched something that I have to react to, even if it's an academic debate, so that the young people who listen to us today don't get the wrong idea of what he's working on. In fact, it's probably 4 or 5 times that when Mr. Glasovic introduces into his discussions with nothing called Frankfurt School. Let me remind you why Frankfurt school is important for minorities, and that's why I speak in front of the National Minorities Club. The Frankfurt school was formed in the 20s mainly by philosophers and intellectuals of left positions who were Jewish implementations. What I really regret is that I have to replicate to him, I really don't think about replicating it, but it's important for me to understand what was and how important Frankfurt school was and how much in some today she's actually lost to the actuality as much as if we think we can figure out the past if, if we introduce and also the future, if we introduce into our thinking and what the Frankfurt school said, starting with Adorn, from Habermas, read these are the great names of Marquez, Fromm, I actually didn't exist great philosophers left-wings who aren't in different periods, we can recognize three periods of Frankfurt school, and now I won't get into the details, but first period when they were victims of Nazism and here they're talking, here it're talking about how the Frankfurt school connects with UDBOM if you understand me. The second stage, actually, when the Frankfurt school moved in, it moved to the U.S. to be persecuted by Hitler and there are great works of Adorn, for example. Here in the brackets and I doctored on that topic using a scale of fascism, fascism, fascism, the famous F scale, which Adorno built after the Holocaust, to see what was in the personality of an ordinary man who didn't have to be politicized, manifestly politicized and how much fascism in a man who was actually authoritative. It is an anti-authoritary philosophy, it is later and in some ways politicised but never institutionally politicised, here if someone was close, close to Croatia and in the former Yugoslavia Frankfurt school it was, it was, it was, it was those around Praxis magazine, and they were the subject of UDBE, some of them were closed. Don't raise your hand I don't think we're this in, you can give the wrong quote, you can't hurt the Rules of Procedure and you'll get a warning probably this one, not from me this time. Okay. The Frankfurt school was actually the subject of various Gestapos, various Udbas, all sorts of things until today, so until today, until today, when every leftist movement, which is not institutional and which is not Stalinist, which is not even Leninist and which is actually a new left calling Fromm, let's just take Fromm who talks about Fromm today most about consummation, the church, the church assumes or be of Fromm and today revalorizes it, and Mr Glasnović tells us about UDBI connecting with the Frankfurt school. You have the right to your opinion You have the right to your opinion, please speak now I, then you will speak, a little discipline general. [[Intruder: Total lie.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124013	But you won't either, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124014	Thank you very much, I just want to say that youth should not be poisoned with free speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124015	Thank you very much. This is a free speech, and people here say what they think is smart, some say they're not really smart, but it's the right thing for every one of us. Here's my colleague Glasnović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124016	First of all, I'd say if he's against lies. Going out with total lies and manipulation with a speech about what he was saying. [[Intruder President: Tell us what is injured, which article of the Rules of Procedure, please stick to the order.]] Just one thing, I'll just say this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124017	Comrade Glasnović, this is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's Institute and you get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124018	Yeah, uh... It was formed during the Bolshevism, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] then formed [[Adversity President: Col. Glasnović!]] I didn't connect UDBA to... [[Adversity President: Col. Glasnović!]] School, these are your manipulations and you're privileged... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124019	A fellow Glasnović has been warned and please sit down. Comrade Glasnović, please sit down, you've been warned. ... Comrade Radin, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124020	/Intruder Glasnović: No, no, you have no idea./ /Intruder Glasnović: You are, you are, and you are the manipulator of Communist.../ [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124021	Comrade Glasnović, I'm taking your word, please take a seat. You've received a second warning. Comrade Radin, you're getting a warning, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124022	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124023	You get a warning from your colleague, Radin. Please, let's get this over with. ... You've already been warned, I'm asking you all to calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124024	The next club is the national minority on behalf of which the respected representative and vice president of this House, Furio Radin, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124025	Dear Mr. Vice President, thank you. There is no doubt that in Pula and Rijeka, the situation is becoming more complex from day to day, and that is only good for those who act politically and socially destructively. Yes, the situation in Uljanic also has political dimensions. Let's not hide it because these two cities, especially Pula, lose their historical identity and together with their counties are placed on a pillar of shame, after 26 years of filling Croatian state registers. The political dimension is also visible from some of the signals that have been being transmitted lately. Anyone suspected of illegal acts must be investigated, but believe me, I've seen media plays based on the conduct of mobsters, I've watched Italian television all the time, but none of them have been so repetitive and so manifest-minded of suspects as those in Pula and Rijeka. It was a show. The message has already been condemned, and we all know that all or most of them guilty or innocent will be released to defend themselves from freedom very soon, and later it will go as many other processes. And not only that extremely arrogant and essentially counterproductive news comes from the fact that, that the unions will be arrested. Well, we're not in Chicago in 1886 after which, where after the union unrest was founded is actually a holiday of work on May 1st. You know, I don't like the special management of the Oilies, just to tell you, in 26 years of political work, I was once invited to Ulnik, so I don't have any special sympathy for the management of the Oils, I don't like anyone, but I say, don't underestimate the workers, don't underestimate Pula, don't underestimate Rijeka, don't underestimate the Workers' Pula and Rijeka. For generations, she'd remembered Mussolini's reduction and attempts to close the arsenals. Pula has become anti-fascist and so to speak opposition to that lead. A performance for one-time use with theatrical detention of Istrian and Osijek managers and intimidation, because it's the only way I can interpret it, who's scaring it, whether the media, whether anyone else, I don't know it, union leaders paradoxically harming everyone other than national populists who's going to try to get out in the election, they're the crazy part of the people that still doesn't go out in the election. I was clear with the government and coalition partners, and I warned them with the fact that this story was bad for everyone. That's what I'm saying to a lefty who's a little defensive and a little vulture. In the short term, watching TV and other media will be full of political spines and then it will disappear, and then I repeat, do not insult the Oilic, do not insult the workers Pula and Rijeka, do not insult the shipyard that was not the only one that was not restructured because Istria is a long-remembered river. I'm going to use the wording of a statesman who's not nice to everyone and I'm going to say that. My advice to the Oilman doesn't pack.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124026	...a representative of the national minorities on behalf of whom the respected representative Furio Radin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In these few words, my colleague Giovanni Sponze, as well as his colleagues, Branko Bačić, encouraged me to speak. Although this Pink Pong policy is asymmetrical because let's be honest, Istria neither by chance nor Pula, nor by chance, or Oil, cannot possibly have responsibility for the situation in which it is as central authorities, more precisely, the responsibility of the government which underestimated this problem during several governments and several mandates, have not been supervised by both latent and manifesto involved in this shameful story of the euthanasia of a large system, a giant which we have all been proud of, and many have envied. The part was the pride of the Republic of Croatia and Yugoslavia, and before Austria-Hungariania, while the Fascist Italy also deprived of professional dignity and actually underestimated it, which they remembered for generations to come. We can joke about the oil business, but I'm telling you, the oil business isn't for any joke. I want to say something that I ask for to be understood and as a well-intentioned warning, and it is not the first time that I warn that from the collapse of the Uljanite confrontation will happen whether someone wants it or not, whether it is potential or not, it will stimulate the confrontation between Zagreb and Istria, whether we want it or not. Oil oil is a symbol of Pula, it is a value in the most important sense of that word, emotions are generated by an effective address and explanation, by addressing people with an explanation of the value of a society, by creating emotions, by taking the value of a society, by explaining the value of an oil company, by explaining that value in an emotional way, by being dear colleagues and colleagues, by explaining this problem and by making it political because it is political and political. No one wants a confrontation, but it will happen if the Uljanica does not join the economic but also politically. I advise the Government to try to save the Uljannik because of shipbuilding, because of workers, but also because the Uljannik has a perspective, it can be very easy to define, the perspective of the Uljanika, of course, is the prospect of falling and maintaining Croatian shipbuilding which, otherwise, you will see, will fail. Of course it costs, but a country without tradition and without maintaining the symbols of tradition and value is a country that has problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u124028	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127356	Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, first item today: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the maritime code, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 421. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. I would now ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the respected Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127357	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, you have before you the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, which is part of the overall reform of maritime legislation initiated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the amendments of the three key laws in the sea, the new Law on port captains adopted at the end of last year in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, which is here in the final proposal, the final proposal here is meant in the second reading and the new Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports. The maritime code regulates all major public legal and property law relations related to the sea, maritime navigation activities and maritime vessels. It is precisely because of the scope of the area covered by these amendments and the additions to the draft legislation before you that has been attended by a number of different working groups, which, apart from representatives of the Resoring Ministry and other central authorities, included representatives of shipowners, seamen, mediators in the employment of seamen of scientific and professional public. The objectives of this law are to strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian shipping and the nautical sector, strengthen the position of the Croatian seafarer and its competitiveness on both domestic and foreign. European and world labour markets, reducing administrative barriers and opening the way to full digitalisation in the Croatian maritime sector, strengthening the attractiveness of the Croatian flag and harmonising national maritime legislation with new EU solutions as well as those from international contracts which Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, is party to. In order to achieve these objectives, the new law first establishes a unique register of ships to be operated in electronic form, it will be fully digitised and centralized with the pooling of data of all types of water facilities from existing registers in the new e-record, and the way in which registration requests are submitted, thus reducing real time in which the interested person will be able to enter his water installation into Croatian registers. Secondly, the social reform for the seamen is being completed in a way that new situations are added in terms of exemption from income tax on the basis of a ship's stay in international navigation, which are listed within 183 days. It is about situations that are unfavourable to the seamen and which cannot be affected by them and which so far have not been able to achieve tax exemption such as disease, abduction, abandonment by shipowners and so on. It encourages education in Croatian maritime universities, instead of so far facilitating only education abroad, and in which way we encourage the creation of our centres of excellence in the sea. Fourthly, the law strengthens solutions related to preventing pollution from maritime facilities as well as reactions in the event of sudden sea pollution. Fifthly, there is an extension of the existing tax regime per tonne of ships approved by the European Commission in such a way as to enable it to be applied to yachts as well. The tax per tonne constitutes State support, given that all those who are optionally involved in this system are exempt from paying the profit tax achieved in the vessels involved, instead of paying the tax tolling on the vessel's tonnage. The Republic of Croatia has already implemented, between two readings of this law, the pre-application of that system to the European Commission. The purpose of this measure is to indirectly attract more yachts to longer stays in the Republic of Croatia using permanent connections in Croatian marinas, consumption, crew filling and maintenance in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore unquestionable to take into account the positive financial impact that this measure will have on Croatia in the remonting shipbuilding, taking into account that large yachts spend up to 10% of all values on current annual maintenance, as well as on the employment and boarding of Croatian sailors on such yachts and taking into account the average level of consumption of yachts, the development of service and other activities related to the nautical sector and the increase in revenues of the state budget and the economy as a whole. Sixth, this law defines the unnamed contract for renting yachts and boats and a nautical link contract so that the Republic of Croatia will welcome the foreign yachts that sail our sea every year, which will have even more reasons to stay in the Republic of Croatia from now on. Finally, I would like to stress that by adopting and implementing this law, it will positively affect the development of the Croatian maritime economy as a whole, and the text of the law is also in line with the social partners who welcomed the proposed legislative solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127358	We have one replica, dear colleague Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127359	Dear President of the Assembly, respected ministers, mention the attractiveness of the Croatian flag for the entry of foreign water facilities, especially large yachts that are suitable, which are advantages for countries in the environment, for example. Montenegro because we know that many have left Croatia and registered, or are sailing under the Montenegrin flag now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127360	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127361	Thank you very much. Well, here's the esteemed Mr. Representative, just what I said. We're introducing a new e-Book, which will facilitate the registration of such yachts here. In addition, we define this new unnamed oil and boat rental contract, as well as the nautical bond contract, means we introduce a whole series of measures to make it easier for all these yachts that come here to Croatia, who are staying on our Adriatic, and, of course, to introduce them, most importantly for me, to introduce them into the tax regime, according to the tone of ships that have been for ships so far, and now we introduce them for yachts. These are all things that will certainly attract more yachts in Croatia, and that is of course important for our shipyards and for new employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127362	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then we'll go to the hearing. The first is the club of representatives of the HDZ... What? Would you like to say something on behalf of the board? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127363	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. The Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 421 and here, after the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of HS decided with 9 votes unanimously to propose to HS to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code and, of course, we had one amendment to this final draft law, which is in Article. 197. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In Article 429(2), point 3 is added. "point" and the words "recorded in the Croatian Register of Ships" – are The reason, therefore, by State support here, the measure of the tax per tonne of the ship is paid by the users, instead of the profit tax, which the minister explained, means it cannot be applied only to Croatian ships, but to all ships flying under the Croatian flag. So, such a system in the Republic of Croatia compared to ships, the European Commission has already assessed the permitted and consistent internal market for state aid and Croatia is introducing a system of taxes per tonne of ships in favour of international transport, I propose amendments and additions to... The system wanted to extend to yachts, but only those entered in the Croatian register, which the EU did not support, so we must extend to all yachts and those not included in the Croatian register and here, we ask HS to accept this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127364	Now we're going to a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, respected colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127365	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. As already stated many times here in HS, the Maritime Code, a practical law assembly defining the conduct of Croatian shipping, maritime and practically the heart of Croatian maritime legislation, because in one place it unites almost all public, property relations in the sea, in shipping, in the safety of navigation, defines the maritime spaces in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which the Republic of Croatia or provides sovereignty such as the territorial sea and inland waters, or has sovereign rights such as the protected ecological and fisheries belt, or ZER. The borders of these areas of maritime space in the Republic of Croatia and the Adriatic are defined by the Maritime Code, and in the first row it is a kind of lex specialis, when it comes to all Croatian shipping. The fundamental law that we are now amending was passed in 2004 even though the original first Maritime Code in Croatia was passed in 1993, but then the brand new Maritime Code was passed in 2004 at the time of the largest conjuncture of the Croatian and world shipping markets, and then this Maritime Code, i.e. its provisions, went towards the Croatian flag and Croatian maritime... make it absolutely competitive to facilitate the business of Croatian boaters on a very demanding world shipping market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so at the time of this great conjuncture of the world shipping market, we then defined both the treatment and the framework of the tax policy in which Croatian shipowners operate, where we then gave them a favourable tax framework to fully restore their fleet. And there are indeed all Croatian shipmen, or at least better said the great Croatian shipmen, such as the Atlantic navigation, such as Tanking Sailing, Oily Sailing, have indeed made the Croatian fleet from 2004 to 2010. Later, changes to the Maritime Code were followed, which after the resuscitation of the resort and that branch of shipping were intended to meet and assist Croatian sailors, so that Croatian sailors would have on our ships in international navigation and on foreign ships in international navigation, about those conditions that those sailors, who sail together and make crews on board ships, would be almost evened out in the conduct of their own administrations. That so-called. The social reform for the seafarers allowed that, very soon after the adoption of these amendments to the maritime code in the Croatian labour and social justice system, 14 000 sailors were very quickly included, so that with these seamen sailing in international navigation, which, based on such changes of maritime law, had indeed resolved their social legal status in the Republic of Croatia, a total of Croatia's seamen recorded around 22,000 at the moment, and in this sense we are 3 nations and 3 countries of Europe after Poland and Italy, it seems to me that 3 countries per number of sailors in the EU. Further changes to the maritime code were followed, which went towards defining the float of the road as a waterway retention agency in the Republic of Croatia, and thus closed until the entry into the EU, the whole set of maritime rules, regulations, which Croatia is indeed... We became a maritime land, because we were a de facto maritime land forever. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you would now say is that Croatia's maritime today, an extremely important branch of the Croatian economy, is that in the Croatian register of ships more than 1400 ships, exactly 1434 ships, which hold the Croatian flag, whose etonation is about a million and 700 gross tonnes, which makes us a medium and large European state, medium and large European flag. We have about 2737 yachts, of which 55 are over 40 meters, 123 thousand boats, if we are aware, that about 62,000 foreign yachts, foreign yachts and boats visit us in summer, then we can really say that in the Croatian part of the Adriatic, there is extremely frequent maritime traffic. And the information, which speaks of the importance of Croatian maritimeity, is the fact that in Croatian ports, in large ports, about 23 tonnes each year, i.e. 23 million cargoes and overruns almost 32 million passengers. Therefore, this maritime law, as shown in these figures, is extremely important in the Republic of Croatia, which regulates the regulation of behaviour in one of the important economic branches in the Republic of Croatia. As the minister said, these changes to maritime law, we go one more step further, we do even more to make Croatia's seafaring more competitive, and in the first row, the part relating to nautical traffic, and then the changes to the maritime code, were made to the management of yachts, their alliances, the definition of the size of the yacht, the behaviour of the crew on yachts, which really contributes to the fact that Croatia, which is a nautical power in Europe, can, however, with the change of maritime law, make it possible to mention 62 thousand foreign yachts and boats, not only in the summer of Croatia, but also during the winter, provide their alliances in the Croatian ports of nautical tourism, and thus further contribute to the growth of the revenues of ports of nautical tourism. What I would particularly like to single out and congratulate the ministry, which is the fact that, with this proposal to amend the maritime code, we have specifically turned to small boaters, who in the Republic of Croatia, for example, only one small place next to Omis,... , there are about 150 ships, which build annually in Croatian small shipyards between 8 and 10 ships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This kind of small cruise of tourism between the Croatian islands and the Croatian coast is extremely frequent, and indeed there are more and more passengers, sailors, who are staying on these ships throughout the summer, and on these ships the season starts very early and late. What have we done with this maritime code? We did so, so that they would define their obligations in terms of paying income tax, which they were now paying, in a way that defined their total income, i.e. the total profit, which they had made on those ships as limited liability companies, is now being introduced annual tax per tonne, regardless of their annual income. So now they're going to pay taxes so-called. The tonic tax per tonne of its ship's load is about about 500 gross tonnes of load, so they already know in advance what their annual obligation to the tax administration in the Republic of Croatia will be, regardless of their revenues and expenditures, and thus clearly they can plan long-term and their investments in the construction of new ships, and they also know what their annual obligations to the Republic of Croatia are. I think it's a very big step towards those shipmen, because according to the current maritime code, such a practice was paid only by large shipmen and... only on large ships sailing in international navigation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now, by introducing them, and for the owners of mega yachts, it seems to me that the Croatian flag, the Croatian shipowners who own such ships, can do wherever and where better to do business and have a safe, stable point of the season, when they accomplish their jobs, simply and easily. Here, it is good to also praise trainees who now after completing high schools, maritime schools in Croatia, refer to ships, and apply them to rules that apply to all other seamen in the Republic and thus make the maritime craft more challenging, more acceptable than it has ever been. In this regard, we will support changes to the maritime code in the HDZ Club of Representatives, as well as we will give one amendment, during the debate, which concerns, which is actually a nomotechnical nature, and will contribute to improving the text of this maritime code itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127366	The second club, is SDP's Club of Representatives, respected colleague Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127367	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The SDP Club will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. Namely, as the minister himself said, this proposal aims to meet the following objectives, which is primarily to strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian shipping, strengthen the position of Croatian sailors, and their specificity on the domestic and foreign markets, reduce the administrative barrier, and open full digitalisation in the maritime sector, and specifically, when we talk about digitalisation in the maritime sector, refer to the modernisation and keeping of registers of all water facilities, because it will be fully digitised and centralised through the pooling of data from existing registers in the new single e-record of all kinds. Also, it will be made necessary to make the Croatian flag attractive for the entry of foreign, water facilities, and especially large yachts. As well as most of the debates in the Croatian Parliament, this code is in line, harmonising national legislation with new EU solutions, and between what comes to us from the EU, this law is also in line with international agreements, in which the Republic of Croatia is a party. Furthermore, the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act proposal is a continuation of the overall reform of maritime legislation that was necessary. This maritime reform, apart from allowing for the digitisation of all maritime services, will reduce administrative burden for citizens, seamen and shipmen, complete social reform for seamen, and increase the competitiveness of Croatian ports and industry. Under an increase in competitiveness, it is the urgency that the amendments to the laws make Croatia interesting and convenient for the whole year's binding of large yachts to simply bring back all those users that are no longer present, but of course the same market has expanded. I believe that the law itself is the whole package of laws that follows this topic written in accordance with those and the state that simply the whole market of these services and I sincerely hope that the students of this law will be positive. Following the above, the SDP Club will support this amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127368	Thank you, too. No more clubs, so we've got one single debate reported, colleague Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127369	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister's MPs, as my colleague Babic said, most of them, I believe they will support this law here in the House. What I would draw attention to is that your task, not only did Bacic's colleague say to monitor the statistics, like this industry is growing and how the branch is and how intensive traffic is in our aquarium, but it's important that the state is providing support and not only with the ship's e-registration, which is okay, that there are as few people in the business as possible, that we have as little work as possible, but we can't let one serious tourist branch work without elemental infrastructure. Here, I will now give an example, my colleague Bačić boasted about the number of ships registered in our register, he said 1400 ships and mentioned one example, one port near Split, meaning Krilo Jesenice, where around 150-200 ships are registered, or, 100 is over winter, I invite you to, and surely you pass there many times, to see what it looks like now. So we're the country where this industry develops well. People are worth, they hire people, they grow from year to year, their colleague Bacic said, every year there are new 8-10 ships, but there is no elemental infrastructure. So these people and those ships have nowhere to be tied up in a normal way. I can only imagine what it's like to work when you don't have the most basic support. So it's no problem for people to pay, or have certain maybe, some more costs than they have right now, but then they'd have security. So it can't be a ship bound to a ship, and 200 ships can't be inadequately anchored because the state didn't provide one quality port where it could be done in such a way. And it's not good when it's just a private initiative, and in this case it's about boaters, who have seen and who, as they say, have been developing their jobs for years, and then the state doesn't follow that industry at all. It's about, as counterpart Bačić said, 150-200 ships, it's about when it's full season of 3-4 thousand employees who are tied to that industry, and over the whole season and more than 100 employees who are there and it's about the turnover of 400-500 million kuna when it all comes together. So the state takes its money every year, hundreds of millions of kunas, the state takes out of contributions, out of taxes, out of income tax on money from these people, but the elemental conditions we haven't made in Croatia to support that industry, so there isn't, see little about what Mr. Minister's ports look like and over the season, when you go to Hvar, Korčula, so when 10, 15 points are tied to others, so our maritime infrastructure isn't developing to support that part of shipping and nautical tourism, it's not developing, nothing has happened in the last x years except for the self-initiation of those people who did something themselves down so that they can have elementary security that they can at least sleep peacefully over the winter to make sure that something happened to them. And what I see is that the state one big segment, a big space, a big I would say the potential doesn't develop in the way that it should develop and not give enough attention to that job. So I'm going to support everything, all the improvements, support that our people are being helped to work, that at the end of the day we don't see how much of the residence tax we're going to be income from yachts that are tied to us, last year we had a pretty critical thing about it because, of course, one period of time, maybe they weren't adequate fees, they were somewhat lower, but then at some point it increases 10 times it comes necessarily to a bad ad for, for our nautical tourism, people are leaving Croatia, bonding in the ports of Greece, Italy, Turkey and in some ways we don't have, we don't have as much as we could have. So it's never good to raise the price, and without giving you some extra favor. For example, when we look at that part of tourism as much as we have infrastructure and fuelling, how many connections we have, for example, on some islands where people can tie to a bow yacht, it's not regulated at all, most of it's left to locals, say, restaurants if someone has to make a connection, and then you can tie it up if you're going to dinner, etc., etc. What I'm asking of you and probably asking people, I mean it's logical, so the state can make it easier, it can put everything on the Internet and the books and registers, but what people need to develop in order to develop this business, that part of tourism, that part of the job is basic infrastructure. So there's no such thing in the bandages either. Once again, while Bačić explains something interesting to you from this law, I would like to point out that it is important that the state stands behind people who work hard, and on the other hand it is not this, from your opening statement I understood by what you said about technical harmonisations, so Croatia must make one more step in this segment. We are a maritime country that is a tradition of hundreds of years and hundreds of years, people are in this business, you should of course see how, given our seas and I would say tourist offer, environmentalism how to get the most of it to protect space, and not some way for those who come to Croatia to get the best possible quality service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127370	We have two replicas, a re-respected colleague of Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127371	Dear Representative, the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, every country that has access to the open sea has the right to declare an economic belt, we know there are internal waters, territorial seas, an external belt, an exclusive economic belt. Furthermore, in 2003, ZERP was declared why then your government, which was not insistent and accepted what was offered to declare exclusively an economic belt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127372	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127373	Thank you very much, you said in 2003 this here I will prepare a written draft and answer your question given that we would discuss here more what we propose for tomorrow than in 2003, and given your interest in history I will try and make a short one on one page and I will deliver it to you personally, and if the other representatives show interest we will share it with everyone. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127374	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127375	Thank you, Croatian Parliament President, distinguished colleague Maras, Croatia is a maritime country, but Croatia is a country that has a long tradition of shipbuilding. Introducing tonage for yachts, paying is actually de facto supported, not tax, introduction we can understand from this side as attracting yachts to come to bond here in Croatia. However, what kind of message is to Croatian shipbuilding, which you think, is really the direction in which in the future Croatian shipbuilding will be reduced to maintenance of yachts, because the tonage of taxes per yacht is from the point of view of technique meaningless, you can have golden hands there they do not really have a large mass. In other words, whether Croatian shipbuilding is doomed and in the future we want to base it on maintenance of yachts that are de facto and not quite a shipbuilding job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127376	Thank you, dear colleague Žagar, you are partly right there there is no logic should go to value, no, but what I can tell you is that this industry is developing and not only these ships that I was just talking about, but also Croatian citizens have meanings of, from, of, of, of, of, of 13,000 permanent connections cca 43% is from Croatia or under the Croatian flag, although not all of them are from Croatia, but there are a lot of our fellow citizens so that the entire industry, the construction of small vessels is now in operation, now in operation in Croatia and growing, when you look at these, and the manufacturers who have affirmed the past few years there are, means the market exists in Croatia less naturally because of the economic situation, but also in the region. And what I'm interested in, I'd like the minister to say, when and how he's going to support these boaters what I said earlier. Because people work under impossible conditions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127377	We're going to an individual debate now. Dear colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127378	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. Well, here I am reporting for an individual debate to refer to the second part of the maritime legislation that our colleague Maras took us to, which is not so much related to the Maritime Code. This is more of a problem of the Law on the Sea Good, because it mentions the port infrastructure which the port infrastructures consider to be a function of better quality Croatian shipping, i.e. better maritime transport, because it is clearly one with the other indivisible. So if we have a large number of yachts and boats and ships in the Croatian part of the Adriatic, then it is quite clear that there is also a necessary port infrastructure that will provide these ships with power and where they will be able to have their connections throughout the year, so that is why I came forward to provide some information that speaks about what is currently being done in the port infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. In all ports of national importance, so from Dubrovnik, Ploč, Split, Sibenik, Zadar and Rijeka, construction of port infrastructure is being carried out. However, these projects of large ports are previously funded by loans with international financial institutions, by the World Bank or by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is part of the segment of these largest national ports in the Republic of Croatia, but at the moment the resolution ministry is carrying out activities over a large project, which is the Operational Programme of Competitiveness of Cohesion, where 80m euros are invested in building small or port of county importance in the Republic of Croatia for the construction of small and port-owned ports, which will be invested in port infrastructure for the sake of better quality maritime integration of Croatian islands. So, all of these 80m euros will be directed at those ports that are either the starting or the final ports in terms of transport connections of Croatian islands. In addition to the 80m euros that will be set aside from this programme of competitiveness of cohesion and already signed by the minister, 6 such ports are also developing a project within the ministry where 80 million kuna is allocated through the state budget this year. Last year, on that same point of construction of ports open for public transport in the Republic of Croatia, these are usually ports on islands or ports on land that serve, which are in the function of transport connection between the Croatian islands, amounted to 65 million kuna. I'm sorry, while my colleague Maras was a minister, we were in that position at only €25 million, so those funds were really insufficient to invest in the infrastructure, and among other things for that port mentioned earlier by my colleague Maras, which refers to the construction of the port infrastructure in... The fallway, so that these 150 ships, small ships, up to 500 tons of load capacity can be tied up during the winter when they are not sailing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resornom Minister for sitting at the government's meeting in Dubrovnik on Friday from this programme that I spoke about and provided for both programs for the construction, reconstruction and construction of 8 ports in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and there is one part that refers to the links in the port of Ploče, then construction, construction of the port in Trpnje, construction of a brand new port in Perna on the island, on the location of Perna on the island of Pelješac, new ports of Polacište on the island of Korčula which will connect Korčula with Peljesac, the construction of the Old Town port in Korčula on the site of Puntinj, the construction of the construction of the building site in Korčula, the passenger terminal in Veli Luka and the construction of the port of Ugljin on Lastovo. So, this project of maritime integration of the island of Dubrovnik-Neretva County has just been based in large part, almost 80% of the EU funds, i.e. on this operational programme of cohesion competitiveness. I have to say first of all that the Ministry is what this project was carrying, but I also have to thank the competent county port administrations who have managed to provide or produce project documentation in the past 2 or 3 years to report to this competition and thus build these funds. We are witnessing that during the summer, in the ports of Hvar, Korčula, Trogir, I am talking about southern, southern Adriatic or Central Adriatic ports, during the day on the port infrastructure, on the waterfronts, connecting to each other, connecting by 10 ships, which really makes for insecure and crew, ships, passengers and threats sometimes and the danger of a maritime accident in those areas, but the fact that these ships now have a very intensive construction project in the port infrastructure allows all of what this Naval Code and earlier and now brings to Croatian shipping, will allow these boatmen and these ships to have a truly high quality bond on the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea and this is an assumption of further development. When there was talk of whether we had done enough with the incentives to take a step towards Croatian boaters, then I will remind you that there was a project before that, with 2% of state resources, encouraged the construction of Croatian ships. Of these 20%, 10% were provided by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which referred to Croatian shipowners, and 10% were provided by the Croatian Ministry of Economy, which went towards the promotion of shipyards that built ships owned by Croatian shipowners, and it was a very intense part of the construction of Croatian ships because the Croatian shipowners and Croatian shipyards provided a subsidy of about 20% of the value of the ship, which then made Croatian shipbuilding an exceptional competitor for Croatian shipowners and they were cornered. ordered ships in Croatian shipyards. But what his colleague, Žagar, said, in the context of a new tax policy towards shipowners, in which they do not pay taxes, according to the profit achieved, which, in times when very high train fares, Croatian or world shipping market, would then be exceptional profits and then their tax obligations would be great with the introduction of a tonic tax, where that amount is always the same and depends on the ship's loadability, it is a very large incentive measure of the state towards its shipowners. It is not our invention, though, but 15-20 years ago the EU set out to introduce the so-called Tonich tax, so that European shipbuilding, which is one of the stronger in the world, could be, above all, ships from the Far East, that is, from the southeast. And in this way, we are now, that measure, and that is important, in my view, the most important change in this maritime code, which we are now, which is the measure that only ships in international navigation have so far had, is now practically made possible for ships in national navigation and cabotage, which is what they will really seem to be meeting and will be even more competitive and will be able to further invest in the expansion of their fleet, thus giving jobs, which is very important for small shipyards, so if you want on islands and thus, this measure multiples the opening of jobs in Croatia and on ships for new crew members, but what is not less important and on islands where you corner. this small shipbuilding and expanded in new jobs on Croatian islands. So I welcome another maritime code, but without this other Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports and the measures that arise from it, it would not be sufficient for the development of overall maritime development in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127379	We have two replicas, first mate Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127380	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. You've mentioned a lot of numbers in your presentation, so unfortunately, people don't see it from year to year. One million and 70 million euros, 80 million euros, European funds. If I agree, it is likely that ports and such projects can be made from European funds, unfortunately the government is not working and the infrastructure is bad, bad. Go, you live in an independent Blato in Korčula, go to Luka Korčula and Vel Luka, and see how the ships bond. What we have now is that you've led here, to have funds, when it's not realized. The problem is it's not being realized. Unfortunately, European funds are not realised in Croatia and should work on it. And I call on the minister, to finally move a little bit in that segment, because it's not enough to let people who made the port themselves into... Alone, and then there was only one from the port administration who wanted to charge the money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So give some support from the state to those people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127381	Here you go... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127382	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, I assume in his final address you will see which ports are already signed contracts from this operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion and which will be signed by this national programme next week, i.e. his programme of construction of the Croatian port system and may not now specify ports before you sign the contracts, but it will be, I hope, next week or within 10 days. But, when you mentioned my Korčula, at this point the construction of the Dominica port is being built, the project of building Vela Luka Polačije and in realising the construction of a passenger terminal in Veli Luka is being realized, and besides, we expect that from this programme, it is going to be built by the port... , it's just the island of Korčula,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] mentioning other ports, the minister will probably, but when you mention Korčula, then I am obliged to do so and to replicate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127383	Thank you. Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127384	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Bačić, in your debate, you spoke of ports as a maritime good and it is good to invest in this, but since it is important for us and for the sea, I am interested in whether you think that the existing provisions of the law, are sufficiently protected sea and sea flora and fauna. We are also aware of certain situations that occur, certain incidents. Do you think the provisions that protect the preventive and post-festum are sufficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127385	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127386	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleague Jelkovac, for adding new provisions that extend the activities of the Maritime, Air and Road Safety Research Agency, where this extension of their powers will clearly spare responsibility in cases of sea pollution, when there are maritime accidents on the one hand, and on the other hand contribute to further protection of the marine environment, in a way that, at EU level, define the actions of the national maritime administration and when it comes to violations of sea pollution and marine habitats. We have already witnessed a series of maritime accidents in the Adriatic, in terms of sea pollution, I believe that the maritime administration through port captains and through an overall system acting on the protection of the sea has acted effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127387	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleague Jelkovac, for adding new provisions that extend the activities of the Maritime, Air and Road Safety Research Agency, where this extension of their powers will clearly spare responsibility in cases of sea pollution, when there are maritime accidents on the one hand, and on the other hand contribute to further protection of the marine environment, in a way that, at EU level, define the actions of the national maritime administration and when it comes to violations of sea pollution and marine habitats. We have already witnessed a series of maritime accidents in the Adriatic, in terms of sea pollution, I believe that the maritime administration through port captains and through an overall system acting on the protection of the sea has acted effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127388	Thank you very much, dear President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. As we could hear and see this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, although very extensive, there is almost no objection to it and that we can all support it together. It mainly contains EU directives which we are obliged to comply with all our laws. However, as I come from the Adriatic Croatia, from Sibenik-Knin County, I will be happy to say that there are almost no citizens who do not live with us for tourism and tourism, and therefore many of our citizens are also engaged, whether by renting boats, charters, whether the owners of ships that take guests to Kornati, Kornati National Park or Krka National Park are very much bound and are very important to them are these, like these and similar laws. For this very reason, I have also contacted the shipowners who are in our area and who are engaged in this activity. The only one, so I wouldn't say a comment right now, but certainly something that would be good to reconsider, that's the amount of punishment for any violations, and then we see that we have fines of 10-500 thousand kuna, for legal persons and then from 10-50, and even from 100 to 500 thousand kuna. Of course, this applies to legal persons, and it should again be added that the special penalty for a particular offence is borne by the person responsible, the ship’s commander and the like. So if, of course, it concerns the safety of navigation, if, by means of such a violation, the health or life of the guest, traveller or crew themselves would be at risk, then it is certainly for the high penalty and support, to the extent that it goes with it, even the withdrawal of the permit. However, if they are some, I would say less serious violations, it would be good if those penalties were not so great because they were not even given such a large amount of the same activity, so our boaters would certainly have one such high penalty as they say from 100-500 thousand kunas to be executed that after such penalties is even in trouble that they have to shut down their activity. Also, the Law on State Inspectorate, which we recently adopted in this House, or also, provides that when an inspector comes into a particular facility, he does not have to punish immediately, that until the conclusion of the minutes, this irregularity or even the release of a solution must be corrected or even given a certain period, so that there is no time limit for that crafter or legal person to be punished at all. So here, once again on behalf of all our shipmen, if it goes like this in this Naval Code, these, with these high sentences, are that on the ground, in some way comes out to meet our shipowners, that for some provisions they did not know about because I often know that a small shipowner can't have his own legal service and financial services and follow all our laws that we daily pass and adopt in this HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127389	We have two replicas. He's a colleague of Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127390	Thank you very much. Ma'am. You're from a region that's quite strong and, you know, here I am particularly fascinated by how we're letting things develop all by ourselves. You go to these national parks, there's nothing arranged to tie ships at all, but certain restaurants or catering facilities have it in their arrangement, it's not a concession, but whoever comes to lunch or something is bound. So that's why it's impossible for the state to solve it, maybe it's not just the state, but there's a local community, Sibenik-Knin County, to solve it, to see how it would be arranged, to have the infrastructure elementary that both ships are safe and tourists and ultimately, and that the local community makes a little more money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127391	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127392	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, surely there are a lot of problems in the maritime good, and we look forward to a new Law on Maritime Goods that could solve this better, but the procedure is very long. There are marinas where everything is arranged, but there are some attachments for which a decision should first be made, so it must be regulated by a spatial plan, and then a concession tender is opened, and then someone comes to that concession, so of course, as everything goes to us, there are complaints about these procedures, we can't all be satisfied with such a way, but it's not exactly in such a big mess that, as you say, what kind of an impression some people have here and, as you say, representatives in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127393	And another replica, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127394	I thank Mr. President, colleagues Juričev-Martinchev, you come from Vodice which are at the heart of the Adriatic, in the center of the Adriatic, practically nautical paradise on the Adriatic and due to the proximity of national parks above all, Kornati etc. The largest growth in nautical tourism is currently taking place in the middle part of the Adriatic. You, right in Vodice there's a port of nautical tourism... the port of nautical tourism and you know very well what this nautical traffic is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These amendments to the Maritime Code, if some of them were to be empty in the winter in Vodice, contribute to the fact that yachts that have otherwise sailed to Vodice or to other ports of nautical tourism only in summer and then leave outside our territorial waters or anywhere outside Croatia, will now... The measures will certainly contribute to an even greater income from the port of nautical tourism and thus the entire system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127395	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127396	Nautical tourism is extremely important, not only in the development of Vodice, in its own time, but here, as counterpart Maras used to say, we have it both in Kornati and in many of our settlements and essentially when nautical tourism was developing and when he came to Vodice, we all welcomed him with open arms. Now we see all these guests again as great potential, especially in the winter months when, of course, we expect more from Congress Health and also from this Nautical tourism where guests come in, I would say, elderly, more serious guests, not to say older age and bring us a new and number of nights, and of course, traffic in catering and tourist facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127397	Thank you. We are now going to the next individual debate, dear colleague Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127398	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, so here, I want to say something about the Maritime Code because the fact is that everyone in the maritime system and experiences it as a basic act, a certain Maritime Constitution, the Naval Constitution or any acts that arise, and it concerns the entire maritime transport system, but also all other events that occur, not only at sea, but also in that coastal part of the maritime good. What should certainly be said that in all the governments so far, I do not think that there have been any ministers who have not touched on such a single code, and there have always been changes and additions, and there has always been a change in that in the last 20 years, and these are really complete changes and only the fact that the Maritime Code has over 1000 articles, clearly says that it is a complex act that must, not only be brought into line with EU directives, but clearly outline some future behaviour at sea and the ways in which certain events that will be addressed in maritime transport and in the very part of the entire system can happen in one year, but also in the future. What is important to us that we come from that part of the Republic, from the island, from the coastal area, are other laws that come out in some way from this basic law, from the Law of the Sea, these are certainly the Law of Liner Interim Transport, the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports and those dozens and dozens of sublegal acts, regulations, regulations that are really highly professionally sophisticated in order to establish a safety system of maritime transport that we have today on our coast and in our sea, and the fact that certain accidents or handicraft occur, tell us that this system is not quite as simple as it once seems. But what we certainly must be happy about is when we talk about passenger transport that we haven't really in decades recorded haematarias or accidents with sinking ships where we've had unhappy or dead or people who simply lost their lives, and we're talking about maritime traffic. The system that rests on the Port Captains as a kind of government at sea, a system that has a national shipowner, Jadrolini, a system that has developed in the last 20 years a number of private shipmen who survive on market principles that compete every few years to get a certain line, offer it ever better and better ships, catamarans. I can say, here I come from the island of Rab, proud of my boatman, the Rape Navigation, as the only private ship that competes with Jadrolini, meaning, on ferry lines that have developed in the last 30 years as a very good boater with a restored fleet, not older, all together when we put somewhere I think 7 or 8 years old and all the expensive ferrys, which used to be measured in decades or so. in a few dozen years. And such systems certainly wouldn't come out. Such shipowners would not come from bad legal acts, so I support this Maritime Code in every sense because it contributes to the development of the maritime transport system in the course of this 2019, but also in 2020. This system certainly has its own land part, and we expect, of course, from the Ministry to come more finally with this Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, which solves us, not only port infrastructure, but also behavior in the most attractive, best part of the coast, which is a maritime good, and there we need to find the best tools to both local self-government and regional self-government, but also the state to realise their interests and increasingly, in a better way, means to manage it than it is now possible through acts that are already perhaps 20 years old when we talk about some sublaws. When we talk about the Jadrolinia fleet, we must say that indeed in the last 15 years it has been restored to the ground, so we have new ferry, new catamarans, every year, every administration, I think, Jadrolinier is trying to bring something into that new fleet, of course, it's always with the help of the state itself. When we talk about port infrastructure, said counterpart Bačić in his part, so, in Dubrovnik's Neretva County, I will say about the contribution to the mountainous county, we also have a large active infrastructure cycle where the ports are being built, meaning, both in Novi Vinodolski and in Crikvenica and on the island of Rab, we are expanding Luka Misnjak, we are building in Lopar, we finished the ferry port in Lopar, it was completed last year and Valbiska or before last year, excuse me, so we have established some new state lines, we are establishing new inter-island lines, but the county significance and all this proves that this system is quite active. We recently had a debate here about the railway where we had to determine that traffic compared to 2011, based on the data we have, and in road and rail traffic falling, is only growing in maritime transport, from the former 10, 11 million passengers, we have passed on over 13 million passengers this year, and that is something we should certainly be happy about, but it is talking about that the most active part of the season is happening in the season. When we have a number of tourists coming, especially to the islands, we simply have to have a complete infrastructure ready, so that this system can function normally on the market principle, i.e., function. to achieve revenue that allows, not only maintenance of the system, but also improvement. As far as traffic itself is concerned, we can say that here, all these years, we have managed to conceive all the state lines and all the high-speed lines, and as worried as it may be that there will be some foreign shipmen that will take away a number of lines to the state shipowner or any other private shipman, yet all of these lines are in hands or in the Adriatic or small private shipmen from the Republic of Croatia who have found their way of functioning and I am especially glad that by now here in this year we may for the first time connect the island of Rab with Zadar and Rijeka in the season, which has been our great desire long ago and that it is done by a private shipman and decided to say a marketing match without support, without subsidies from the state, means that there is a space that these entrepreneurs can normally function without great difficulties. Of course, thinking like everyone else that we need to think about means that what they're doing, they're doing the best they can, but they're making enough revenue and they don't end up in big minuses. Here, once again in the end, I want to thank the Ministry for really giving great effort to touch all the laws that were important, and the port captains and railways and road traffic, and not to count further over the past two years and a little bit more, it has shown that here and the maritime part is now coming, and we hope that this law, which many have promised, I say about maritime goods and seaports, will finally come to the Assembly and that we try in this area of maritime goods, which in particular in summer months, in the season requires a great effort of local self-government, has a number of interests to be made in that space or concession or to give concession approvals that we better settle these rules so that there are no misunderstandings, and then the ministry has to arbitration at the end and a lot of complaints and everything else, and then to say, again, we are making money or income much more than it is now, and certainly this Maritime Code makes a significant contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127399	Let's go to the replicas. Dear colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127400	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Boric, before I replicate to you, before the very listing of ports in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which the government mentioned in its decision Friday... Not to be resented by my friends from Kolochep, now that I'm particularly detached. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, I agree with you. In addition to the Island Act, which we used to say is a lex specialis for those of us who are islanders, I would specifically single out two laws that are important and in the vault are the Minister of Maritime Affairs, the Minister of the Sea, and this is the Law on Maritime Good and the Law on Linen... Transport and in this context you have also mentioned with the right to your rap navigation, it is the only practical shipowner, along with Jadrolini, who performs maritime traffic in the part of ferry connection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact that the rap voyage survived, not only because it was due to its own good business, but also because in those times that you were talking about, it was possible to restore it precisely by the basis of the Maritime Code and the measures. The ministries, their fleet and it can compete today [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in all of the ministry's competitions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127401	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127402	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, let's remember a few months ago we had a debate about the Island Law and then we heard from the opposition that this law is not good, that it bears nothing. However, here were the first contracts signed yesterday based on those funds that were in the budget and which were already in relation to what we had so far and for sure, you saw, dozens and dozens of local self-government leaders who were satisfied with the fact that the state, in addition to the funds they could get from the EU funds, allows them to get state aid for every major or smaller project. They may not be as much as anyone expects, but any help is welcome. What we expect, I say, is certainly this Law on Maritime Good and Seaports because all of us who are down at the head of local self-government see that there are problems that the ministry then solves in the second degree, and in terms of uncertainty in terms of the award of certain or concessions or concessions. How do you do it in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127403	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127404	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Boris, you mentioned a large investment cycle in port infrastructure, so you mentioned our county, that's correct. I agree with you and I think it is a good active system, but it certainly should not mention that not all of these major investments that are happening in the area of Novi Vinodolski, Crikvenica, Rab, whether there is no well-developed system of port administrations that are very well developed in the Primorje-Gorski County and the Primorje-Gorski County has been working on this development for years and I think that this decentralised model that has the Primorje-Gorski County, Istria County, and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska County, which is why investment in Korčula is so large, it is good and that it should be painted on the rest of Croatia or on Zadar, Sibenik and Split-Dalmatia County. We wouldn't be able to get funds from the ministry if we didn't have prepared projects and it hadn't worked for years on project documentation and everything that we in the Primorje-Gorski County have shown with our system that it's good. That's why I'm looking forward to the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which I hope will regulate these problems. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127405	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127406	Thank you very much. Here, it's good to agree, so the system of port administrations that it has, I don't know, 20 and something, I'm talking about county port administrations, which is the biggest part of it in Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, is good. However, we cannot say that neither the system of the centralized county port administration, such as Zadar, has contributed to the fact that almost all ports and refurbished or upgraded and compared each other, I believe that everyone has chosen the system that suits them. The coastal-goran County said it wanted to have 8 port administrations, it was done, each island has its own + cities etc., created a fund within the system itself that helps every year that local port administrations can get both part of co-financing and all the common funds that separate into that fund, which together with the funds and the state made it possible for us to really have an appropriate port infrastructure. No one can say that. We don't have good infrastructure. But I'm just saying, everyone's choosing for themselves, the system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127407	My colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127408	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric, you have repeatedly mentioned safety at sea. Security control and surveillance at sea is carried out by the port captain's inspector. Just in the summer months, we have a lot of problems because this same port captain's inspector oversees and controls everything that happens on the marine good, and now it's certain that the priority is to control the safety at sea compared to some pike lining, some kiosk that will sell feathers, masks, ice cream boxes, etc. However, the appeal is strongly called by the mayors and mayors not to do anything about this maritime good mess, and in fact this same port captain's inspector who is in charge of safety at sea must also control this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127409	Answer, nothing. Then we came to an end with the replicas, so we're going to the next individual debate, colleague Klaric, e, right, you answered, I'm not being written down, but I remember you picking up, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127410	Dear counterpart Boris mentioned the coastal mountain county and the investment cycle that is happening here and the fact is commendable and primarily thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Transport. If it wasn't in the Primorian County, it was all just as well, as it was just said. The evidence is also a recent event in the county assemblies where the point of the agenda is a banal thing to call a concession for the Sports harbor taken off the agenda without delay, by the Council and today’s bankruptcy manager, Mr. Loris Rak and the Mayor of Komadina, and by reason of Mr. Komadina’s day, simply because they didn’t have enough time to vote the budget. What I'm saying is that in this part of the operation, when it comes to ports, harbors, marine goods, that policy section should be thrown out completely without talking about appointing members of the administration. Council of port administrations where municipalities and cities have been ignored. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127411	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127412	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, regardless of the individual cases where there are sometimes no specific decisions, I believe that the system of port administrations is well set up, that it should be done a little bit because we have a problem too, one on the island of Rab, let's say, that we have one of the largest ports that per number of traffic i.e. Passengers, there are a million passengers a year and over 200,000 cars, it's the Stinica-Mišnjak line. However, we don't have that basic port infrastructure that meets the needs of those tourists who have been coming there for years, just because, I don't know, the arrival port in another county, the Lika-Senjska, where we simply can't solve the basic facilities so that these tourists are satisfied. That's something we have to meet in this law that's probably going to be here in the House and then we're going to solve these situations, and there's always a problem, of course there are, and there are laws that change to prevent and solve such problems already with the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127413	Thank you. We are now going to an individual debate of colleagues, Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This, I have reported this debate because I want to take advantage of the opportunity that the Minister is here, and I am glad that even you who is President of the Parliament are having this session because I have, therefore, my debate concerns my parliamentary issue exactly that which, within a week, is going to be the anniversary of this issue, so I asked the question, however, last year, to the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, whom I did not get an answer to today, even though I have already sent three, four rushes, after which I also asked the Prime Minister why he ignored you as President of the Parliament and did not want to answer the question even though he has a legal obligation to answer that question within 45 days, if he did not answer, he must state the reasons why he was not able to answer the question he was asked. However, none of this has happened, and the issue is related to the intention of giving a concession on maritime goods for the purpose of building an economic use of the port of special purpose, Luke nautical tourism in the bay of the port in the municipality of Tisno. In 2017, further, the Government adopted a notice on the intention to grant a concession on maritime goods for the purpose of building Luke nautical tourism in the bay of Tisno, after which the entire process and procedure, the public procurement process and everything that was, the competition for that part was carried out. The local authorisation was issued on 30 May 2016, valid for a period of two years and as the public procedure was completed and completed on 8 June 2017. And it lasted 30 days, and the public opening was 4 days after that, to this day there is no decision, not to choose the concessionaires of the future, not to cancel the competitions or anything. So I asked that question 14.2. last year, given that the location permit was valid until 30 May of last year, so 3 months before the actual location permit expired, it was not responding, and in the meantime I am using this opportunity to ask the minister why I didn't get the answer and what was going on with the project and where it got stuck, and which is why the government refuses to tell what was going on because, according to some information I have, the Ministry of Government has sent the answer to my question, however, from the Government has not been forwarded to the Parliament of me, and now I don't know why, nothing is going on, where the story is stuck, so I'm taking advantage of my argument to ask now because everyone here who could give me the answer to that question, here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127415	Thank you, too. We have one replica, colleague Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127416	Dear fellow Djujic, on the trail of what you said, I will use this opportunity here and ask you personally to ask our Mayor Komadinu, as well as the Department of Transport in the County Assembly, which is why exactly the item of the agenda for the award of concessions at the Bakar School Port is not yet called for last year, which is why it is removed from the agenda when it has all the consent and the ministry, county departments, and it is not yet charged with over two hundred strings for a simple reason because the county is blocking the selection of concessionaries. Here, I appeal to you to use your party power in the area of the coastal mountain county as a parliamentary representative and our colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127417	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127418	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, I'd love to, but here I'm not in charge of it, you have your members of the county assembly through which you can ask questions, so it's not in my jurisdiction, but here, I'd like to know, for example. And of you, do you consider it a party leader, for example? the appointment of the head of the municipal company of your company justifiably after, say, being in the neighbouring municipality by influence or not, I won't say, under the influence of alcohol, but he broke down an official car that wasn't supposed to be used during the night, he escaped from the scene, after which, the president of the HDZ of the Kostren municipality, then left that place and since 1.1 he was appointed director of this in your city. Here I'm asking you if, as one of the party leaders of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, you consider it justified, for example, the behaviour of some prominent members of your party and is it normal for you to incriminate people in your town who should not work in such a sector at least, and they are not. bearing responsibility for your actions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127419	Let's go to the next individual debate, Comrade Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127420	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we know that HDZ has made a concession law that has actually allowed private concessionaries to charge for the entrance to the beaches or to exclude others from accessing the beach, as many beaches today are fenced you have a case in Istria where such a case is, such cases are also by other parts of our country. The question that's being asked is who do we do everything for, and why? We can have the best ports, we can have the best airports, but what's going to happen when the inevitable happens, which is that the loans can't be returned. What Greece did, Greece gave its airport concessions, gave sea ports in concessions or sold them to foreigners. Unfortunately, we don't work for ourselves anymore, our country is working for creditors today, and in accordance with that direction in which the state goes, all the laws are being directed. Even something that's seemingly good is actually not working for us, but for foreigners who will take over our homeland. You are aware of it, and you know that the IMF, the World Bank, the European Commission, etc. The troika asks Croatia to introduce a real estate tax, you know that it seeks the privatisation of HEP, highways, etc., etc. but the biggest travesty of the HDZ government is the appointment of Zagreb Airport to Dr. Francis Tudjman, and why, because you gave it to the French in concession, because today the price of their taxis is huge, I would dare say if you travel by plane from Zagreb to Dubrovnik as much as half the ticket is that airport tax. These Frenchmen who operate the Zagreb Airport today have huge salaries, and our workers cannot boast the same. We can easily say that the appointment of the airport that the state gave to foreigners according to HDZ's first president is a tragic move. The more thanks to your politics, the more young people leave our country today. You can freely call the bus stations in Zagreb one day after President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, that young people leave and leave Croatia to say they are leaving the bus station Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović. Unfortunately your love for Croatia, dishonest and hypocritical as well as the love of the Old Testament Pharisees for God, they claimed to love it as much as you claim to love Croatia, but Jesus told them your hearts are far from God, your thoughts are far from him and you respect him only with your lips. Thus, you too show love for your country with your lips or external features. The external features are, for example, Standing up on an anthem, holding your right hand on your heart, is an external feature of keeping the Croatian flag, the external feature is celebrating Independence Day even though we are no longer an independent state. This false respect is also shown by giving a name, by giving a name to the Zagreb Airport by Francis Tudjman. I'd like you to change that policy, I'd like you to stop selling out the Croatian country and ask yourself about foreign lenders 35 billion kuna a year, foreign lenders, and at the same time you say you don't have the full amount of alimony for single parents who can't get alimony from spouses of exes or fathers or mothers. This system that you advocate it comes down to serving European directives, I watched Mrs. Shuic when she said in the Open that 2/3 of the laws in Croatia actually come from the EU and these are actually directives they say guidelines now, but basically we have to implement these guidelines so we have no choice. And when I saw these changes to the maritime code, I saw that it was essentially in line with those directives. And so a great lie is revealed, namely in the Constitution of our country, that the government comes or stems from the people, that the people actually choose their representatives to decide on their fate, but if even 2/3 of the laws don't come from the people, or from elected representatives of the people, they need to be asked who has real authority in our country, who actually makes laws, is it really one place where laws only technically vote or is the assembly where they decide? Whether we, ladies and gentlemen here decide or only on the sound of the bell, like that eschatologically on the sound of the last trumpet, so here on the sound of the bell, fills the assembly of people who are otherwise empty, they technically vote, in fact I believe that most of them don't even know why they're voting, but just looking at the one where they need to squeeze green and after what speed they've entered the assembly, they've filled it, the same speed they're going to get out of it. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, I do not view you as enemies because my conflict, as much as we personally compete and politically, is not with you. My real conflict is with those you serve. And those who asked us to have the CNB as a currency exchanger, that Croatia could not create its own money because sometimes Croatia when HDZ was in power was creating its own money and was not in debt. Once, our coast was not given in concession. The banks were once owned by a Croatian state, not foreigners. Once the people were proud to live in Croatia, which are Croats, today many are bitter, even many defenders wonder what they were fighting for. Among them, one of me thinks that his name is Budimir Savarin, if I remember correctly, who was actually deposed, was taken from him by property in Zadar by the order of a foreign credit institution. And one of the symptoms of your failure, or failure of your politics and bitterness, is the number of suicides of those people who fought for this country. Those who felt not only rejected, but realized that the sacrifice they gave had actually become meaningless. They did not go to war for NATO or the EU, they went to war to free Croatia. By taking our country of economic freedom, by pushing our country into debt slavery, you've actually taken away the people's right to decide their own destiny. Democracy has been suspended today. If foreign creditors ask you to do something, you will do it independently of the will of the people. That's why the referendum law was amended. The goal is to disable free expression of will, with the help of the media to take full control of the minds and to force the electoral body to support puppet options that will support the rule of service. And the goal of this servant government in every country is to compromise and liquidate national freedom fighters. It was so everywhere in the world. Today, you who brought Croatia to your knees, you spend your time, unfortunately, I would dare say, such a policy and the result is the disappearance of our people. The result is that children are born, if born, in some other countries. The result is the question of who will actually stay in this country. Slavko Kulic said that we, who are so-called. The political elite last to survive, however, he said in the end, and you will disappear. So, those who today liquidate the Croatian people from Croatia will eventually take you out of our country. You have to be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127421	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is a colleague of the Lonchars. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127422	Thank you, President of the Parliament, colleague Pernar. All the time in your debate, you took the right to insult yourself exclusively, which you have no right to do. About patriotism and anything else. It's one thing, another thing. As far as I know, we all got up in this high house when the Croatian anthem was playing, and Mr. Pernar was sitting there eating apples. What he says about you, not us. So we appreciate and love our country, i.e. when it comes to you, I can also think twice and say that you tell such lies and lies and sow hatred in the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127423	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127424	Your Honor. Love for its country is manifested in concrete works, not external expressions of respect. You think that if you wave with the Croatian flag and hold your right hand on your heart that you love Croatia. Unfortunately, that's what patriotism in your direction has come down to. And it's this kind of patriotism that you force, where practice is one thing, and the theory of another, that has led people to actually be embittered with their own country in some way and to be ashamed of being Croats, and you're wondering if it's because of me or because of your policy that ruined them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127425	Comrade Felak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127426	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, esteemed colleague Pernar. I also do not view you as an enemy, as you have said about us from HDZ, although you have used this debate on one maritime law only to defile HDZ and attack HDZ, which is your practice. I don't think of you as an enemy, but I think of you as a person who should be helped. Unfortunately, in this House, except for a few colleagues, I don't think there are any others who can help you, we should look for help somewhere else, but you're also using harsh lies when you're diphrase your political rivals, and you're hiding your problems and your problems, so you're one of the few people in the political spectrum who dared to quote Hitler on his Twitter account to declare their policy, that someone from HDZ did it, you might think they'd treat him. They experience you as they do Yes, but you're what I already said. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] fake messiah and not [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You say nothing good for this people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127427	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127428	Your Honor, I'm muddying. So you tell me whose government turned the CNB into a currency exchange? Tell me whose authority led to the privatisation and destruction of the Croatian economy? You say whose authority privatised the Zagreb Airport? You say, sir, under whose authority do young people leave the country? Under whose authority do we have such a demographic collapse as it was not even at the time of blackest, strongest Communism? You tell me, sir, under whose authority have you made the Law on concessions that restricts access to beaches or marine goods to people or citizens? You tell me, sir, who sold the INA and everything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127429	And the last replica, colleague Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127430	Comrade Pernar, you were talking about concessions, when it comes to building infrastructure, highways, airports, etc., data show, here I saw that from 2004 to 2014 about 3 billion kunas from the state budget paid by Bina Istria, so, foreign owners and Stragu, where it is shown how the public private partnership in the Republic of Croatia works, 51% are owners of foreigners, 49% of the Republic of Croatia, and never instead of the Republic of Croatia killing income from these highways and from Franjo Tudjman Airport, the state of billions must pay compensation to foreign partners because they do not have enough traffic. Will you ask from here the present minister and the Government to put you and all of us, to see the contract between the French concessionaire and the Croatian government, to see what it is, and to finally give the public the real truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127431	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127432	Mr. Lovrinovic, you have pointed to a very serious problem. Many, although formal highways are not yet in concessions, certain parts of the highways are in concessions, are given, as you mentioned, to the French and the state has concluded with them a contract that I consider harmful, a contract by which the state guarantees them a certain turnover of the vehicle or a certain profit from the concession, and since, of course, such traffic often does not exist or generally does not, the state pays hundreds of millions of kuna each year to these concessionaries. So, concessions in the Republic of Croatia work in a way that doesn't pay the concessionaire to us, but we pay the final concessionaire. For me, it's a morally questionable job, but it's a patriotic HDZ policy that no one can question, if anyone asks her, then he needs psychiatric help, then he's crazy and abnormal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127433	This has led us to the end of the debate by clubs and individual debates and will finally be addressed by Minister Butkovic on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127434	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, here, I thank all the clubs and, of course, the distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs for a constructive debate in both readings. He would also thank the social partners who contributed to agreeing to the text of this law, as well as to supporting the proposed legislative solutions. As I said in the opening section, this is one of the 3 laws that represent the reform of maritime legislation and the aim of this reform is to enable the competitiveness of the maritime economy to be raised, the level of safety, navigation and protection of the sea, the digitisation of all services and, of course, to complete the social reform for sailors who may be the most important part and the most sensitive part of these changes to the maritime code. This is an indication that this government recognises the potential of the maritime economy and sees in it a significant lever of its economic policy. We are aware that sailors who sail the seas around the world, there are about 15,000 of them, our most valuable wealth and a unique export product, and we also value and appreciate everything they do and with the 183 days that are now easier to achieve for all our sailors, in some way correcting the injustice our sailors have faced for years. What I may have to say with this debate of yours, and most of all regarding the debate of my colleagues, Mr. Bačić said about investment in port infrastructure, I must make it clear here that it has never been invested in the port infrastructure as much as it is now invested, and I am particularly proud that the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is carrying out a series of such projects, from Savudrija to Prevlaka. There are two instruments that we finance these projects, these are mostly projects of port administrations, county port administrations, but also of the state from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, we have a total of EUR 80 million for such projects, and we have signed all of them in last year for 7 such projects, a grant totalling about 200 million kuna, and all of these are projects that are being built, for which tenders have been called, and the second instrument is the state budget, we had only last year, that's what counterpart Bačić said, 65 million kuna available to finance such projects, but we have additionally secured the rebalancing of 19 million, so a total of 84 million kuna was invested in the port infrastructure. This year, in the budget this year available 80 million kunas, we have already issued a public call and the decision will be next week on funding, so 60 million kunas were available, we have already made redistribution, so a total of 80 million kunas will be allocated next week and I call it a Renaissance on the Croatian coast because, believe me, it has never been so much invested in port infrastructure. The projects for which we have signed them are 7, followed by Omis, which is about 80 million kuna, followed by Perna, followed by Korčula, I will not list them all, there are 28 of them, and what a colleague, parliamentary representative, respected Djujic said that port administrations are preparing projects, they are also applicants, they are carrying out these investments but I insisted personally and as minister, that the Ministry of Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, in particular the management of European funds, helps port administrations to report such projects, because somewhere the port administrations are not capacitated to prepare such projects, since these are European procedures, we are talking about an operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. We are in very good cooperation with all the port administrations, not only in the Primorje Goran County, but in all our coastal counties. I'm going to visit one of those ports next week in Sibenik Knin County, and of course, I often visit them, which is not so attractive to the media, so probably you as Parliament representatives don't have all that information, because building ports, corners. pay local media, but I invite you all to join me in touring these ports, these are really valuable infrastructure projects carried out by port administrations, most with the help of funding by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Thank you again, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127435	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127436	I apologize, Vice-President, since here is the fact that two amendments are related to changes and amendments to the maritime code, one of them was from the Parliamentary Maritime Committee, the government accepts it, and also from the HDZ Representatives' Club of one and the other government accepts it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127437	Thank you, Mr. Minister, and your work is not yet done because you have several replicas. The first replica was requested by Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127438	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it's always been the story from the beginning, it's every minister, I haven't heard a single minister of transport and infrastructure, who hasn't said in his term and is proud and that at this very moment he's investing most. What I don't ask you, if it's the most invested, go see what it looks like, go, I told you a place near Split, see what it looks like and what 150 ships are bound there. So when, tell us exactly when the state will secure that branch, these people will have normal connections and that they can use it. If the state already takes hundreds of millions of kunas from taxes on jobs done by these people, if small shipbuilding develops on them, when the basic infrastructure will be solved for those ships. Here, that's a question specifically, when? Next year, five years in 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127439	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127440	Your Honor, you speak specifically of one port. As for me personally and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the funds are also available to that port. The question is when they will be provided with funds and when they will prepare project documentation, is not a question that you ask the Minister of the Sea. So when they send an application to any port in Croatia, which is in the jurisdiction of the county or state port administration, we will ensure that we finance it, it is not disputed. So there are funds, we have 80 million euros from European funds available and we have available this year, 80 million kuna from the state budget. So all ports in Croatia, and this one, too, can get funds, I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127441	Thank you. Please don't throw it away, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127442	Dear Minister Butkovic, I've been following this final statement of yours, and I'm not sure you understand that your ministry in the structure of the total debt of the state to the abroad has the largest share of about 5 billion euros, and your renaissance of investment scares me as an economist, because I don't suppose you're an economist, so throw yourself away hundreds of millions of kunas, billions, but I've been fascinated by the programme of financial restructuring of your ministry that I've been looking at, and I almost thought you didn't have any debts, what did you actually do? You've expanded your obligations, so the government, which comes in 2021, you're going to get her into a lot of trouble, and in the meantime, you're throwing yourself at the court's money. So tell me, how much did this financial restructuring study cost, what did you achieve, and how do your major projects fit into the sustainability of your ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127443	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127444	Dear Mr. Representative, I am not throwing myself away with any means, I have said and I stand behind it 80 million euros of European funds are available to you for the construction of port infrastructure. These are not State budget funds, but are resources from the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. Secondly, there are 80 million kunas secured in the state budget for the construction of port infrastructure and I have said it and it is commendable, that today is investing in port infrastructure, we are a maritime land and... I think it is commendable, regardless of who is in power and who reports and which port administration, i.e. who is in power in that municipality or city or county in the application of these and similar projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for this finding of yours that in 2021, we'll leave someone behind, we won't. We went into debt refinancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127445	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127446	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for not answering my question, regarding the intention to grant a concession for the economic purpose of nautical tourism in the bay of the Tisno municipality that I asked the Government a year ago, and until today I have not received an answer. That's what I asked in my debate, can you tell me what's wrong with that? And which is why from the government, already, here in a week it's going to be an anniversary that I didn't get an answer, even though the diameter was supposed to answer in 30 days. And secondly, I want to relate to this building, and that's right, here I can say, for example. in our county, that when cooperation by vertical city, county, state, that it is then being built and we really have investments in port infrastructure, I don't think that since Austro-Hungarian they were bigger in our county and not only financed by the ministry and the county there participates, monitors all the projects in their area, with financial resources, and even cities and municipalities that are not obliged to co-finance project documentation and I think that this is a good example of which all citizens are ultimately benefiting from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127447	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127448	Your Honor, a very short answer to your question is, first of all, this second was a finding, which I thank you for. The answer to your question is still running some checks before the decision on the choice that the government is ultimately making.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127449	Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I replicated before you later realized, which is that, and you praised the work of port administrations that manage to prepare not exactly simple documentation when it comes to investing in the maritime system, in ports, given the studies that are supposed to make project documentation, and later building permits. However, I agree with you, port administrations, as a rule of the county port administration prepare it, but if you hadn't prepared the Programme and related to competitiveness and cohesion, and even more in increasing funds to 80 million kuna, these projects could only remain in the drawers of certain port administrations. So, that's what I wanted... And the other thing, I'm sorry there are no colleagues of Maras, I did this morning, before the debate itself heard from the president of the Small Shipman's Association yesterday at... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , and they are extremely pleased and commending this Maritime Code because it will very much help further their development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127451	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Sir... Oh, no? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. And at the end of the day, Mrs. Juricev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127452	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, you mentioned investing in the municipal infrastructure in Sibenik-Knin County, so this opportunity would thank you for your compatibility, and help with the financing of the construction of the municipal port Vnaž in the area of Mandaline, the city of Sibenik, indeed 30 million kuna would have been impossible to secure from the budget of the Port Authority, the city of Sibenik or the County, had it not been for the great compatibility of the Ministry. Also, here is this time of application, after the construction of the port, in the same way that we go to the construction of the municipal port in Prvic Šepurine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127453	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127454	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, second reading, P.Z. No. 421. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee and by the HDZ Representatives' Club. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendments submitted, and they became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. I find that most of the votes 98 FOR and 1 OBVIR have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127455	We move to the next item of the agenda, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, and amendments may be submitted today until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zdravko Zrinašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127456	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Today, you are facing the Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment firms and as a result of compliance with EU Directive 2017/2399 amending Directive 2014/59 of the EU as regards the ranking of unsecured debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. Let me remind you, in the first reading of the bill, he was accepted at the tenth session of the Croatian Parliament by the conclusion of December 3rd last year. I would introduce the basics that regulate the current Act, the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions has been applicable since February 2015 and has been adopted to bring this Directive into line with this Directive 2014/59 EU, establishing a framework for the recovery and rehabilitation of credit institutions and investment companies. The financial crisis has shown that there has been a significant lack of appropriate instruments at European Union level to address the problem of unhealthy or fallen institutions effectively, and therefore this Directive has been adopted with a view to establishing a system which will be responsible for the resolution... Member States shall provide a set of instruments for sufficient early and rapid intervention in an institution that either fails, or is likely to fail, to ensure the continuation of the key functions of the institution while limiting the impact of such an institution on the economic and financial system to the least possible extent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As one of the possible recovery measures under the applicable Act, the application of an internal resolution instrument is envisaged to reduce, in accordance with the established hierarchy, the obligations of credit institutions and investment firms to cover losses or to convert them into capital. What brings us this news in the context of this Directive 2017/2399? It is primarily aimed at improving the ability of institutions to recover, and it should be stressed that at European Union level, the need to establish harmonised rules on the ranking of unsecured debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy or bankruptcy procedure is recognised, as existing different national rankings create uncertainty and unequal conditions on the single market, both for institutions and investors, and also make it difficult to apply internal resolution instruments, especially for cross-border institutions. In that sense, and in accordance with the obligation... the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with legal... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Union, this procedure for the adoption of the Law, has been initiated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Basically, this Law, if you were looking at it, has only a few articles, and this Final Proposal basically introduces a new category of debt instruments that are called unprivileged unsecured debt instruments. According to the definition, they are bonds and other forms of transferable debt, and instruments that create or recognise debt, which meet all the prescribed conditions, and the conditions are laid down in the new Article 24a. This Law and an invitation to an existing article of the 24th Old Law. And the main purpose of their issuance is to meet the minimum requirements for so-called regulatory capital, and subject to obligations. For example, we are reminded that, for example, in the Credit Institutions Act, a series of settlements have been established in a bankruptcy procedure against a credit institution, while this bill defines the position of these requests of holders of a new category of debt instruments. The claims of holders of unprivileged unsecured debt instruments would enter into a bankruptcy procedure in a higher payment order compared to those of the holders of the regulatory capital, but in a lower payment order compared to those in which they are not agreed between the creditor and the institution. By determining the position of the holder of the category of debt instruments, it is significantly easier to apply internal resolution instruments in such a way as to reduce the risk of legal refutation by creditors from the basis of the greater losses of creditors in resolutions from losses that could possibly have suffered a bankruptcy procedure against the institution. In this case, the principle before which no believer is to be placed in a more unfavourable position shall be fulfilled. As regards the differences prescribed by the final draft law and the relation to which we had in the first reading, the corrections introduced in terms of expression are in accordance with the recommendations and observations of the HS Legislative Committee. Furthermore, enforcement is in line with the new Capital Market Act, which has been in force since 7 months. Last year, in a way that certain provisions instead of calling for specific terms and specifically under this law, are now referred to in the general name of the regulations, and the same way are the provisions which refer to the provisions of the Credit Institutions Act. In conclusion, we can say that, on the basis of the provisions of the final proposal of the law of the credit institution and investment firms in the Republic of Croatia, they are given the opportunity to issue a new category of debt instruments to provide financial resources and simultaneously meet the regulatory requirement for subordination when meeting the minimum requirements for regulatory capital and subject to obligations. The competent authorities, as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, the competent authority for credit institutions is the CNB and, for investment companies, the HANFA. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127457	Thank you, too. Two replicas. He was the first to ask for Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127458	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State. There's only one more technical suggestion than a replica, but we've actually talked about it on the Finance Committee when these kind of laws are of a technical nature just to speed them up maybe through one, to go through one reading, to then make it easier as soon as possible to apply the directive. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127459	Thank you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127460	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, and on several occasions we have commented, and that is how much information I have received, it is old Rules of Procedure and Government and HS, so in this sense it might be convenient to do so in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127461	Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127462	Thank you very much. Well, just one thing, Mr. Secretary of State, you may have said that, but maybe you should have made it particularly prominent because with these technical provisions of this law, maybe the most important thing is that with the new instruments that provide... In principle, the resolution of the fallen credit institutions will no longer practically fall on the burden of taxpayers, but practically on the burden of these new instruments, and I think it is something that is very important in the debate highlighted because neither in the first reading nor now we have highlighted it enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127463	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, thank you for your suggestion, and you are right here, although in one part of the provisions of the existing law, a provision has been incorporated in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127464	Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Ivan Schuker in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues, so he would join the appeal of fellow Lalovec, who said in the replica, I think that such laws that Croatia is harmonising with its legislation with the EU directive simply do not require that we have two readings in HS because we simply here, all of which, and that we cannot change anything and either we accept or will not accept, but we are simply wasting time, we are wasting paper, and, unfortunately, we are showing our inefficientness. Because because of some bickering over the Rules of Procedure, we are able to bring ourselves in to be operational. Because it is not only these financial laws have a series of laws in other areas where Croatia, which is a logical thing, as a full member of the EU, harmonizes its legislation with EU directives and then we have 2 readings here without any need, and that is why I will, along with what I have replicated to the secretary of state, otherwise what I do not like to practically quote what is written in the explanation, as said in this law, but what I want to point out at the outset, first, the economic and financial crisis hit the world at the end of 2008 and 2009, and the directive only came in 2014. And secondly, what I want to say is that Croatia had this happiness, no matter what anyone wanted to admit or not, that virtually no credit institution, and also no practically insurance company or institution that was not in the jurisdiction of the CNB in those years of economic and financial crisis, had come into a situation to fall on its knees, that the state had to resuscitate it, that Croatian citizens and Croatian businessmen lost the funds in those institutions. Therefore, in the light of this law, the financial crisis has shown that there is a significant lack of adequate instruments at EU level to address the problem of unhealthy or fallen credit institutions and investment companies effectively. And now that we're talking about this topic with a time-out of 10 years, it's easy to talk one way or the other. However, when the economic crisis began, there was virtually no overall single policy at EU level, but each member managed in its own way. And even for certain financial resources, certain products have closed the borders for the reasons that individual members have their instruments, their own ways of preserving their economies and how to preserve their financial sector and this directive clearly recognises and practically explains why it is being adopted. A directive has therefore been adopted with the intention of setting up a system that will provide the competent and resolution authorities of the Member States with a set of instruments for sufficient early and rapid intervention in an institution that is failing or likely to fail, in order to ensure the continuation of key functions of the institution while at the same time limiting the impact of the institution's failure on the economic and financial system to the minimum possible extent. In view of the strong interlink between the EU financial markets, the resolution of such problematic situations was necessary at EU level and I think that the quote of this argument given in the proposal for this law is, in principle, the best picture of why this bill was found in the debate, why the Ministry of Finance proposed it to the Government of the Republic and the best, in fact, to tell you what was going on in the past and what should not happen to us in the future, and that is why the HDZ Club will support this bill proposal, and I sincerely hope that we will get to the left and right sides of the assembly to agree that, in the first reading of these laws, we will reach a conclusion in one way and say that this law has no need to go into two readings, but that we can practically adopt it in one reading, because nothing can change, nor change, and I say, take the time and money, so ultimately take only the amount of paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127466	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Boris Lalovec's turn in front of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127467	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, so we have before us this proposal for a law to be adopted in order to comply with the Directive, actually supplementing the Directive which was adopted in 2014. where, as regards the ranking of unsecured holding instruments in an insular hierarchy, they are ranked in what way, if a certain financial institution has a problem, in which way these regulatory capital should be filled and what is good, what the European Commission has recognised through this Directive, is now complemented that some future, problems with financial institutions will be burdened by those owners, that they will go to the burden of their shareholders and only add a new one here, a new debt instrument is added, in fact, to ensure that institutions have sufficient capacity to cover losses and capital requirements prescribed to maintain minimum requirements for regulatory capital and subject to the obligations specified for each institution. The aim of the minimum requirement is to ensure that EU institutions have additional capacity to cover losses, in order to ensure a smooth and rapid coverage of losses, and to capitalise with a minimal impact on financial stability. When we look at capital adequateness, meaning, in other words, how much capital there is in Croatian banks, they are more than capitalised compared to many European countries, somewhere regulatory capital is, there are more layers of capital, basic, and then they have protective layers. So it's about 12% indicative. However, the adequateness of capital in the Republic of Croatia, so there is 23% in all banks, so much more than the directive itself requires, so, as far as we can at least boast about the stability of the banking sector, it will not affect the economy. As regards this part of the loss coverage, compared to the existing arrangement, the novelty is that this bill introduces a new category of debt instruments, meaning, not privileged, not secured debt instruments, these are bonds and other forms of transferable debt, and instruments that create or recognise debt and which meet the prescribed conditions. The main purpose of issuing a new category of debt instruments is to meet the minimum requirement by means of subordinated liabilities. Also, this proposal for the law has, as it was pointed out, yet to be implemented certain and harmonised. So the SDP counseling club supports this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127468	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn as an individual debate, Pernar pardon, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, Mr. Pernar in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127469	Dear ladies and gentlemen, what the current financial system is doing is causing a breakdown or a believer or debtor, and this debate itself deals with the question, how, what about banks that are indivisible that can't, is, to settle their obligations, etc. But why do banks fail? Why do debtors fail? Now, that question is not discussed, and the matter is related to the monetary system. In the current financial system, all the money is created as a loan, I don't know how to explain it to an average citizen to understand it, but literally no one has raised one kuna, there wouldn't be one kuna in our bills, and now the banks have issued all these loans and they have to be charged interest, and the money for paying interest has never been made. So when the banks were giving us money, they only gave us the principal loans, and back they're looking for the principal plus interest for that reason they're all, so to speak, debtors, they all owe more money together than money exists. The state owes more money than it has and, of course, the debtors cannot repay the debts, our country first. Minister Maric boasts that he has a surplus in the budget, he owes 35 billion kuna, and then says eh, another 2.7 billion in debt will be needed. If there's a surplus in the budget, what's the charge? Mr. Bull, if you had a surplus at the end of the month, would you be in charge of paying the bill? Of course not, but when the state does, then no one is questioning that farce, and here's why, because this debt doctrine that we all have to be in debt by which we all have to be slaves of debt and ultimately everything must be handed over to the banks on the victim, including citizens, or privatised or kidnapped, must not be questioned. And why is that? Because the media that forms public change, they are influenced by credit institutions, because credit institutions are the ones that are advertised by them, who pay for advertising space. And of course, if the media, imagine if the media in Croatia were to say, that, Croatia should be a sovereign and independent state, or should not be given in a concession airport in Zagreb, or should not be given to foreign lenders 35 billion kuna this year, it would be better with that money to increase pensions to pensioners, to keep that money there and so on. And will that ever come to you from the media? Will the media ever see you say the government debt is technically invaluable? No, I don't. And then people say well, Mr. Pernar, like, how do you think the debt of the state can't be paid back? Well, that was explained by Slavko Kulic. You're in bankruptcy the moment you're unable to repay your obligations. Does the state have any way to get the loans back? There's nowhere to go. No new borrowings. So now, what's going on? The state repays loans by taking new loans and the total debt of the state only increases. It's state policy, it's state policy, ladies and gentlemen. Now, the question is, if the state can't repay loans, it's taking them, it's bringing them back under quotes so it's taking new, growing, where does it go along the long run? It leads to an ever-increasing government debt, and always ask yourself, "Dear people, why would someone lend loans to someone who knows this guy can't pay them back?" The logical question is, who's profiting all over the story? Why would foreign creditors support this scheme? The logic of things requires that if you're a citizen, and you can't repay your loans, what will the bank be looking for? They're going to ask for your property, they're going to take the pawn's rights, the mortgage, they're going to depose you. However, if you're a state, then there's no plastic process of action as in the case of citizens, but the bank is looking for privatisation, foreign creditors say you have to privatise HEP, of course, then some corporations related to these banks will take over state property. So, the objective of the creditors financing this scheme is to take over state property, so they keep talking about privatising public enterprises. On the other hand, what happens is that we have relatively successful tourism. Now watch this, foreign creditors see that the state does not repay these loans, and that there are many individuals living on tourism, and that they make good money on it. So what will the creditors say? You have to increase the pressure on them, we're looking for their money. And the meaning of real estate tax, it's not HDZ policy. I am deeply convinced that no HDZ man who sits or doesn't sit here today in the assembly, who voted for real estate tax, that he doesn't really support it in his heart. But the directive came from outside, the creditors asked for it, and that policy had to be implemented. In the end, this policy of decommissioning and destroying the state continues, continues until the moment it doesn't crack, and will crack like in Greece, a total social disaster, privatisation of museums, archaeological sites, airports and seaports, in fact by losing all elements, everything the state once had, everything goes to the drum. In Croatia too, we think that we will resist it, but we will not, ladies and gentlemen, if the people will support this policy. And keep in mind, that the media is in service of this policy, the media is criticising, say, HDZ, but when HDZ implements privatisation or SDP, some state-owned companies, and they don't raise that media a lot of trouble about it. When a real estate tax is introduced, huh, you will even find positive views of various economists in the main stream media. They'll see that there's no public discussion. Here is a concrete example, the introduction of the EUR, it is known that nothing will be cheaper by introducing the EUR, but some things will be expensive, the question being asked is why would the state then insist on introducing the EUR? What good does the state have to do with it? There's nothing. What good do we as advocates have to do with the introduction of the EUR? Nothing. Things are gonna come together for us, too. And then it's clear to you that it's not something the people wanted, the people say no, but the elite from the Brussels summit are giving orders, and then we're doing it. You might say, Mr. Pernar isn't, but we're going back to Dubravka Shuic on Open, what did she say? 2/3 of the laws to be voted in the Assembly come from Brussels. So it's illusory to believe that the people want it, or that you as representatives want it, it's much more likely that someone from Brussels said, listen, you should introduce the EURo, and you, ladies and gentlemen are aware of it. But why do you support that policy? Why do you support an infinite borrowing policy? Why don't you see the problem in her? I'll tell you how I got into a conversation with an academic and a science doctor, we talked about the theoretical debt payout, and then he told me, listen, Ivan, I don't think it's a problem that loans are invaluable in theory. I look at him, I don't understand how a man with an intelligence can think like that, and finally I realize that he has a huge pension, he can live well, he doesn't lack anything, so you gentlemen who support that policy of infinite borrowing, or bringing the state and the people into debt slavery, so you're okay with that policy because it's okay with you. If you had, instead of, say, 17.000,00 kn or 15, you had a salary of 3.000,00 kn or 5.00 kn and you had to survive it, pay the rent, which is all, would the question be supported by this model? And finally, he told me in his own time, I mean the Lithuanian Honorary Consul, he told me.../The speaker speaks English/...your position, your position depends on where you sit. I said that, interesting thought, and what does it mean? So that means if you're sitting here in HS getting nice salaries to implement that policy, you're okay with that policy, and what kind of a citizen is that policy going to be? Now, that's a second-row question for you, but the main culprit for what this policy is about is, unfortunately, citizens who have allowed the media to manipulate them, citizens who have allowed the media to convince them that this and such policy, as I said, money as a debt, this policy of endless borrowing, this policy of debt slavery and the sale of everything and everything, which is inevitable in this modern form of colonization, that there is no alternative. Simply, the media has identified every person who thinks differently as a populist, so what you're up against now is that agenda and you're a populist. Then they say, so what do you, Pernar, like you don't have a big school, like you know? And when someone who has a big school comes, they say, "Let him go of what he's saying, and the man who's senile, he's crazy, and so on." So, the system is always looking for a way or a medium to discredit those who oppose this neoliberal euthanasia of our country, and the people, unfortunately, many believe, many when the media, they do not wonder who is financing the media, citizens do not wonder what are the motives of the media to implement or advocate a particular policy. They think that the journalist writes of himself, that he is not under the influence of the editors, that there is no Directive, as it is clear, that in HS comes the Directive from Brussels, but people do not realize that if the state is not free and the society is not free, that if MPs in HS do not have freedom, that journalists on television or other media have no freedom, they must write, they must only say what they are told, only what they are told and in this struggle to touch these real rulers in our country, they are willing to destroy any person, compromise anyone, we are aiming to have their authority or the power of these foreigners continue over our country. History of responsibility is no longer on HDZ, HDZ has had a historical responsibility in the creation of the state, they created that state, and later, in my court, they ruined it, and I don't think they're simply able to lead our country to a better tomorrow, that's my personal opinion. The question, would we be better able to lead from the Living Wall of the State, I believe that, and I will say why, because we would not implement this economic model that HDZ is leading, which has proven to lead to the disappearance of the state or the loss of its sovereignty and the detachment of its citizens. This model that HDZ supports, discharges the Republic of Croatia from people, discharges the Republic of Croatia from capital and destroys people with every desire to work. After all, our justice system is a disaster, you saw recently a man got ineligible for five years in prison, went free. How is that possible? Now, in the Republic of Croatia, anything is possible, but people who support or the media who criticize the system as if what could have happened to you, that's not good, these media are silent, no medium dares to say Istanbul was a dead letter on paper, and why? Well, because the media isn't free. The same hand that rules the political elite, the government and the media, is managed by the same centre of power, and the enemy, and the media and the political establishment is the same and will do all the media to break it, but I call on the people to resist that policy, to oppose the agenda and to refuse to comply with the orders they impose on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127470	Thank you, too. Now we move on to individual debates and order I beg your pardon? [[/Intruder: We're not crossing.]] Uh-huh, uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. [[Another club, Goddess Mlakar.]] Goddess Mlakar later, yes, thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127471	Thank you very much, Your Honor. , that, in front of the HNS Club, well, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues, after this free speech that was due to be made in accordance with our Rules of Procedure at 13.00, I will return to the agenda and to the agenda we are discussing, which is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. [[Optionary Vice President: In front of the HNS Club]] It is true that this is about harmonising with EU directives and it is a real shame that we did not go by emergency procedure to pass this law, as colleagues from HDZ and colleagues from the SDP have said, because this law is good. This law is not only good for the citizens of the rest of the EU, but also for us because we are all here discussing and talking about banks, about everything, our banks are guilty of what we don't know. Here, this law introduces new instruments to strengthen their obligations, therefore, new debt instruments and determines the order of activation of these instruments, so they have greater responsibility, greater obligation and nothing is transferred to citizens that they need to resuscitate banks as we have already had cases. The calls are for us to transfer everything from the European Union, I am sure, and we at the HNS Club, that this is about good law, and that no citizen after the adoption of this Law should be and will be in a worse position than he was before the adoption of this Law. So it'll just be safer and safer. And that is why we at the HNS Club will support this Law and agree with everything that has already been said on this subject, which is that such laws really need to be passed by emergency procedure, and go into practice as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127472	Thank you, too. And now really Mr. Gordan Maras will speak for himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will speak for myself, and on behalf of the citizens who elected me here to the Croatian Parliament, and so I always do, and I try to represent them in the way I think is best. What I can say is that the area of lending, credit institutions, everything we've been able to track in recent years is always marked by dual emotions. On the one hand, here is what Mrs Makar said, it is good that Croatia has avoided some uncertainty and crises that have been in some other countries, partly because of what is a smaller market, and because it has been different, I would say, and the basis of this whole story, rather than where the crisis has broke out, but on the other hand, it is objective to ask whether our citizens are going through the same way as some other citizens of the European Union, when it comes to loans, and credit institutions, and financing costs, and certain other things they use as consumers. Is the level of transparency the same, whether, whether their home budget is the same burden, which is why in Croatia, for example, an average rate of 5-6%, and I don't know, in Austria 1-2% or in Italy 3% or 2%, means, many things are there for discussion and I would like to do when we transfer certain European legislation rights to Croatia, or it is regulated, and we always say, says European legislation, not as if it is being passed on from somewhere, as if someone else is creating, means, in this creation of these frameworks, the Republic of Croatia or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, our representatives on European Councils, and they also create these, and recommendations, the Directive and so on. What's important, and what's bothering me, and why I think Croatia still has a lot of space in that segment, is that, in Croatia, much worse citizens pass when it comes to costs, and when it's a question and insurance, and the way the whole system works, and against it in the future and it needs to be worked against, and it needs to be fought against. I want us to have the same status as the people in Austria or Ireland, while we are already in the European Union, means that we do not have to pay more than the citizens pay there, of course, that the Republic of Croatia, or our Government, can contribute the most, means, in particular, the risk and stability of public finances, the risk of business in Croatia is exclusively the consequences and higher interest rates, and everything our citizens are not satisfied with. We should fight to be all the same, meaning when we already consume the rights that are the same in the European Union, Croatia should fight to reach the level and economic development, and to protect consumers like in some other countries so that our citizens can really feel that they enjoy the benefits of the European Union, not how they feel that they might possibly be citizens who are not in the same relationship when talking about the European Union as some from Germany, the Netherlands or France. So on this side, I think there is still a very long way ahead of us to change some of the illogical and injustices, to correct them, most of all we can work on it ourselves, because we have been entering the European Union solely to make Croatia useful, to be part of a wider community, and that a country like Croatia can find its identity and its position, and ultimately to fight for its rights in one larger, larger community. On the other hand, yes, we should support certain things, but we should keep fighting for the rights of our citizens to be the same as the rights of people in northern Italy what Mr Furio knows very well, where the standard is quite high and so on. So on that side, we have to be equal about everything, and I hope that's how it's gonna be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127474	Thank you very much for your individual discussion. And now, since there is no replica, strangely, will speak individually Mr. Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127475	Dear ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing how to save banks from bankruptcy, which is the essence of the debate, or how they are, what to do in case the banks are in trouble. But what to do when citizens are in trouble is not discussed. The HDZ, when it came to power, since the Karamark era, has promised to solve the problem of the blocked, has received the support of the Association of Blocks in its own time, and the Association has also given support to HDZ and Mrs Kolinda when she went to the elections, and so has Plenkovic promised to help the blocked. But there is no help for the blocked, for the blocked citizens, they are not on the agenda. It has been two years since Plenkovic's government was in power I have not seen changes to the executive law by the authorities that would help citizens. But when the question is what about bank recovery, credit institutions are that, it comes to the agenda. Is it possible that this government is more relevant to how banks will manage than citizens will? It's a question that must be asked to the whole public. And the enormous debts of citizens, the enormous costs of the process show you that this system is faulty, not even at the level of the executions whose costs are too high for 1 kuna is the cost of the performance of 700 kuna, the system is not even good at regulating the money that created the lack of money, artificially caused. Well, you've witnessed the bankruptcy of many companies, but it's not being discussed in the assembly that nobody here is interested in. It turns out to someone who's looking at the side that basically the executive system and it's not so bad, that the NBH is actually doing OK work, but if that's the case, if that's true, then thousands of people are leaving our country, which is why people can't live off their salaries, which is why it comes down to real estate, which is why hundreds of thousands of people are in the blockade. I, when I tell you this, feel like I'm talking to deaf ears, that just my words don't touch you, but I hope that the citizens will reach out and that the citizens will wonder whether the policies implemented by HDZ and also the policies that have been led by the SDP are in their interest or what they have from that policy? I'll say some of the effects of that policy. This policy has allowed us to lose the sovereignty of our country, that 2/3 of the laws that we are voting here do not stem from the will of the people or from the will of us MPs, not even from the will of the Government or the ruling, but from Brussels. Such management enabled us that INA was sold to foreigners, that all the banks were sold to foreigners, that telecoms were sold to foreigners, that Zagreb Airport was given to the concession of foreigners, that Pina Istria was given to the concession of foreigners, that the refinery in Sisak was shut down, that the floating LNG was built from which we have no use, so you know ladies and gentlemen themselves that the cost is enormous for this floating LNG, only to drive it into work Croatia would have to give over EUR 100 million, only to put it into function, and you know that it was booked itself, or buried only 500 million cubic metres, cubic metres of gas, and for the minimum cost, it takes a billion to rent, and only 500 million is leased, and only 3 times less than the minimum, and the total capacity of that LNG will be 2.5 billion. And that gas coming to that LNG will be 30% more expensive than pipeline gas and who will eventually pay the cost of that expensive gas and that expensive project will pay citizens through more expensive gas. That's what the minister says we're going to have to get a price correction, gas goes 20% up, gas doesn't go 20% up because pipeline gas is up 20% or because some other costs are up. The only cost I see that creates cost, not benefits by floating LNG, but it is pushed because the country is managed from outside is one consequence of the loss of sovereignty. This is one of the consequences that we do not decide our own fate and we are convinced that it is great for us, it assures us that the exchange policy of the CNB where the kuna is overrated, where import products are cheaper on domestics that it is good for us, so here's the result for our agriculture, villages are empty, first the cows from the village are gone, and then the peasants are gone. It's literally euthanasia, there's places where every other house is empty. And you convince people that your policy is good and worse with the help of the media you convince people that this policy must continue. And why should I have to go on? You'd have to go on in order to make a minority so-called. Compradoral elite, co-workers of foreign government could actually enjoy privileges at the expense of the entire state and people. Slavko Kulić has warned or given prophetic words in his own time, he said, he said, everything should ring the alarm until the sky, because if the foreign debt grew by almost EUR 2.7 billion in nearly 3 months, then that means that we are counting days, not years from the time when the alienated government will admit that Croatia is unable to repay debts or that we are in the situation in which Greece has been found these days. And Slavko Kulic says, he says like this, every debt reprogramme and every new debt should be ratified by the parliament, this is an illegal debt, so let the creditors ask who they're lending to. And now that the state is unable to repay its debts, the state has offered its own citizens to the banks on sacrifice, she has told the banks what you want to do. And in the end, citizens are massacred by these banks, by law firms working through this executive system and public notebooks, but there is no debate about it. They are now sending information to the blocked whether they want bankruptcy or not to bankrupt consumers, that is, that is, your solution, personal bankruptcy is a solution for blocked citizens and what about a country that cannot repay debt? Ha, nothing, he says, we're gonna raise new loans. And what, until when do you think you're going to raise new loans and endlessly in debt? Where will this policy end up taking you? Does everything have to be sold out? Does everything have to be destroyed? Do they literally all have to fail so that a few of them can live without working on their spines? And this few who are paralysing over us, she's not even in the Republic of Croatia, these few are foreign credit institutions that do nothing. No work stands behind the money they get. They'll only get 35 billion kuna from the Republic of Croatia this year, that's almost 1/3 of our budget. So, 1/3 of our country's budget is going to pay off the external debt, these are real figures, exact figures, and then the state says, we don't have for this, we don't have for it, so sum up two and two citizens, 35 billion kuna on the payment of external debt, 4 billion kuna on EU membership, banks still through dividends draw at least 2-3 billion, that's over 40 billion kuna, and then the servant government boasts, says, we've got, like, 2 billion kuna on the Pelesian Bridge, right? In one year, you only gave 40 billion kunas in one year, and when you gave them that 40 billion kuna, then you didn't yell at all the bells, you didn't yell at all, hey, hey, we brought back the tranche 5 billion, 10 billion, 5 billion, 15 billion, that's not boasting about the state. The country is not praised when it pays EUR 550 million each year, or €4 billion each year. in the EU budget, but boasts of the full vote [[Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you, you've made yourself clear, thank you]] When he gets his change back. [[Intruder: You have one replica...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127476	...from Mrs. Crescent. At least, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127477	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I've been thinking for a long time whether to report to you for the replica. However, I have decided to keep our citizens out of the loop after you've been exposed because we don't pass a law here that suits banks and we don't pass any law on banks or I don't know what you've been saying. Here we pass a law guaranteeing our citizens that they will no longer need to resuscitate banks, credit institutions, but this law obliges banks to provide them in their assets, in their portfolio far greater security of their business and there will be no longer any need for citizens to pay for it. Here, this is the intensity of this law and compliance with EU legislation because it has been applied throughout the EU Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127478	Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127479	Well, ma'am. Even though banks will ensure it when you and I and all economists know that the vast majority of deposits are imaginary, that it exists only on computer screens, that this money in reality does not exist, that the vast majority of money is created by credit and deposit multiples, that behind those figures that banks have on the account screen does not stand real money. You created through the banking of a partial reserve system that was actually based on people's faith in that they would be able to raise their money, but in fact, if they were to raise it, there wouldn't be one. Why don't you tell that truth to the citizens? Is that the truth that citizens can't hear? And in the end, no bankruptcy can be prevented in this case, so either we are going to go bankrupt as citizens or states or credit institutions, someone has to go bankrupt because the loans can't go back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127480	We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, respected citizens who are probably following us, is about ahead of us, as said the representatives of the ruling coalition, the technical problem, which means what came from Brussels, it should not be critical to accept that we do not waste time, so that in front of the Party we change Croatia, I suggest to the government and the president of HS that those laws that we deal with, which come from Brussels, that the ruling coalition do so on its own because they already have a voting machine, and that we can then discuss the 1/3 of our Croatian problems, the real problems that talk about life, the economy, quality of life, demographics, migration, future, technologies here. So this is about credit institutions, and as a university professor in the field of monetary policy of international finance, I have something to say about that. The latest financial crisis has shown that financial markets are the most dangerous segment of the economy, and last time in 2008, they rocked national economies and the global economy. If the Central Bank hadn't intervened then, the system would have simply collapsed, we'd have an outrageous crisis in the world. However, 2008 The central banks intervened and were in a terrible debt, i.e. they opened the doors and windows of their buildings, so to speak, and offered to the national banks to save their countries because the states resuscitated the losses of banks, so they saved one and the other, and eventually the burden remained practically in the balance sheets of the Central Banks, and here we are talking about the European Central Bank. Unseen is, beware, the majority of the assets, what Croatian citizens and the esteemed representatives need to know, the majority of the assets of the European Central Bank that manages all other central banks that have taken over the EURo, is located, the largest part of that property is actually a debt. Whose debt? This is the debt of other euro area member states, not only of the state but of the corporate sector, because for the first time we have come into the situation that central banks have started to act as commercial banks, because you who know or do not know, should say that central banks have never bought out, for example, corporate bonds, for the first time in history appeared after the 2008 crisis, that the central bank, and that the European Central Bank, is buying out bonds, corporate bonds. I do not know what terms to find or terminology to occupy your attention, point out that exactly the financial system is the biggest problem of the modern world and so on of the European Union. Once, Chancellor Merkel said that if the EURo fails, neither the Euro Zone project nor the European Union will succeed. We know, and whoever does not know, should be told, that the European Union is not a defined and completed state, it is a Union, it has one monetary policy for members who have taken over the EUR, but has 18 fiscal policies. And such a system cannot survive. And why cannot the European Union be formed as a state? Because that's not what her members want. So this project has stopped somewhere in between, it's a spell in the sky or on the ground. So, the sphere of finance and common money, it has the greatest hope of uniting the peoples to realize that it is one country and forming, say, the United States. However, as an expert on this area, I must warn the present representatives and the European public, because we have something to say to the Europeans, too, and I want to say, that this is the most dangerous segment of the European Union's unification project, and as things stand, it could, instead of uniting it, destroy it. So all of them, and some of you, who are not critical of Croatia's rapid entry into the EURO project, need to be respected colleagues and colleagues clearly to advocate something that is bad, not only for Croatia, but also for the European Union and the Euro Zone. The Euro zone has enough patients, heavy ones, such as Greece, Spain, Portugal, now Italy, to receive another sicker economy like Croatia. But I didn't get up here to give teaching talks, I'll show you two examples of what it's about. It's an example of Italy, it's an example of Greece. Italy is the biggest current risk to the EURO project, the European Union, the Euro Zone. There the banks are seriously ill, a large part of the government debt is held by a bank called UniCredit, which owns the Zagreb Bank here, a good part of Croatian banking. They have large, Italian banks have a large share of non-refundable loans, there is a public debt of 132%, they have increased the interest rates on government debt from 1.8% to 3.7%, so you see those who advocate the quick introduction of the EUR, instead of having a cheap debt, it has doubled the price, the amount of interest on its bonds on the European market. I don't know if you understand that. Do you read the international press, follow the analysis? Because people expect that when they introduce the EURo, all power's going to be in debt as Germans at the same interest rate. It's this empirical indicator, proof, that Euro Zone is not a homogeneous area, you can't play with strong players their game. It is therefore no wonder that there are more and more requests in Italy for a return to the lira, and leaving the EUR. What happened to Greece on the other side? And look, not only that, to say this thesis immediately, debt management, and Italy is an overindebted nation, it is never according to that criterion of mastery, nor could it enter the Euro zone and accept the EURo, but you see, it has entered for political reasons, if Greece, as well as other countries. Therefore, in the coming months, we can expect a deterioration of the situation which, this one, reflects in Croatia, will speed up the onset of recession in Croatia, because Italy is our important export area, and therefore, this is not what the Government is talking about if we live on Mars, an isolated world. Italy is currently the biggest threat and not only that, bureaucrats from Brussels such as the practice they had in Greece in 2015, they want to discipline the Italians now, the first one of their governments that they do not like. How? It's just a debt, because they're getting higher interest rates on their new bonds, government bonds, and that's how they promote savings policy. They tell the Italians like the Greeks, save more, don't waste it. You know what policy that is? That policy looks like medieval medicine. You know what medieval medicine is like? If you were sick, your doctor then put leeches on you, so if it's been a few days, you're not much better, then you'd say put more leeches on, not enough blood. It's a savings policy, which ends badly in the end. This can have a very bad impact on the situation economically, not only in the European Union, especially in Croatia. And what about the gentlemen in Greece? That's what I'm going to conclude. Let's analyze the examples, The Party change Croatia here is not because we talk about the world-wide issue, ideologies, this, we'll talk about it when we're richer, when we solve these problems, when people don't run away. In Greece nothing was resolved, their public debt remained, even grew, they disciplined, disciplined Greece, blackmailed them, their politicians moved away, there was nothing resolved. So, this, when a bill of law comes to the Croatian Parliament, then it's tragic that some MPs speak and approach it like this, uh-huh, it came from Brussels, give it quickly, just to pass. It is time for someone to get up in this House and in front of our people says, we are not interested so much in moving on financial markets when it comes to the choice between how the market reacts or how the Croatian people reacts then we from the party change Croatia will always take more care of this second and not about this first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127482	Thanks for the timing. You have four replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127483	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, a respected colleague of Lovrinovic, when something needs to be done to make the banks safer then the necessary laws are passed quickly, there is not too much wisdom, there is not too much thinking. When it comes to protecting their capital, there's not too much thinking either. However, when it comes to resuscitating citizens who are damaged by the very unfair business of Croatian banks, then everyone closes their eyes in front of it. Both the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament, the courts are something better but they are too slow, the courts make their decisions too slow, so the citizens wait until death to reach their rights. How do you interpret the situation so that the state doesn't care at all about the rights of citizens, but the rights of the banks are maximum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127484	Thank you, too. Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127485	Dear fellow Alexic the answer to your question is very simple, you will be surprised at how simple it is. We say there is a legislative, judicial executive authority but there is also a fourth that has been imposed on them, that is monetary financial authority and that is what we have here in Zagreb but we have in Brussels. Therefore, they care that they don't care so much about the citizens, that I don't say the people are already there, the laws are coming and they're written by the banks themselves. Thus, they protect themselves in the first place. In that sense, we really saw it best, and when there was a crisis in the Swiss franc, if we hadn't gotten on our feet and literally forced the government and the institutions at the time, none of that would have happened. In this sense, citizens need to understand that civil activistism is extremely important, I call on all civil society associations, all citizens to put this topic into focus because it is really important to all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127486	Thank you. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127487	Thank you. Dear counterpart Lovrinović, you have now mentioned in this replica, so there is a judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia and it should also be independent in its actions. You were mostly talking about threats coming, threatening outside the Republic of Croatia and I'm going to say something now in this replica about what and your comment on what we ourselves are doing inside. In fact, what happened yesterday is good from the point of view and my point of view and most of the public it's good to get time, but from the point of view of the judiciary it's one questionable event. It's been repeated in all the news, in all the media. Zdravko Curkovic temporary bankruptcy manager 3. In his report, Maya stated that the shipyard meets one of the bankruptcy reasons, insolvencies for payment but that it is not insolvent or over-indebted but currently unable to pay. You know how it would be in the people I won't, politely, say it like it's said. So, in this case let's make it so, let's get on time. However, gaining time and supporting the agony of workers, if the claim that there is an investor with 107m euros is all a story we make ourselves. Excuse me. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127488	Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127489	Thank you for this matter, colleague. The thing is very clear, it's good that you asked a question like this, so 3. May, we've been saying it a long time ago, I've been saying analyticalally it's seen from their balance sheets that they're better standing than the Oilies, but they're going to be pushed down when former Minister Vrdoljak forced them to join the Oili so the EU can show that it's going to unite and eventually it's starting to break up. So here it's clear, I've been down there unfortunately it's been closed, they've got on board three unfinished ships, those ships, that, so run worth something, isn't worth anything zero. So it shows here that the government wants to quit 3. May, they need current liquidity, they're not insolvent. What does "insolvent" mean? When you don't have enough property to pay. They do not have the means to pay current liabilities and their assets are greater than their current liabilities. It means insolvency. So he doesn't want the government to help.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127490	Thank you. Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127491	Dear Representative Lovrinović, they often say to me that I don't have large schools, but you can't say the same for you, you're Dr. Science, a professor at an economic college where you were also a dean. And it's not even a private school, it's a Faculty of Economics within the University of Zagreb. I'd like to ask you on a media propaganda concept that is being placed on citizens that by introducing the euro, you'd better drop interest. Are there interest rates in Portugal, Italy, Greece, Spain, or are they similar to those in the Netherlands or Germany or are they still high at the level of those in Croatia? I find this issue important because of many of our citizens who may believe in the propaganda that is being placed by Andrej Plenkovic and this chamber ruling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127492	Mr. Lovrinović, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127493	Dear colleague Pernar, therefore unlike the propaganda action led by this government along with the CNB, I am responsible as a university professor and representative and in this case an expert, so the theory of optimal currency area says all of you who accept the euro should ultimately have the same interest rates on your bonds that... That's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the 2008 crisis, Greek bonds crossed 15% at one point, so no one will take it. Now Greek, just before I said they only jumped in 2.3 months from 1.8 to 3.7%. That must be clear for our citizens. ... And an ordinary citizen doesn't say that to him, and respected citizens don't tell you everything, you're just told that it's best to have one money in your pocket, wherever you come, you won't change and those most important things are kept. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, the most important authorities say it is not time for Croatia to enter the euro zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127494	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Goran Aleksic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127495	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are now watching this exhibition, this law that is proposed, which proposes amendments to the already existing law, is technically necessary and there are no too many dilemmas, this is something that comes from the EU, we respect, we include them in our laws, and there are no problems in general. Nothing special, nor interesting, nor important to the Croatian public, is important to the system as a system. However, what I would like to discuss further is the issue of the rehabilitation of Croatian citizens and citizens, the resolution of banks has been resolved, but part of the citizens and the currency clause of CHF have not been resolved. In 2013, we had a first-degree ruling that this could not be done, but it was not immediately confirmed and this extended, and only last year we received confirmation that this was true, that banks really negotiated unfair contractual provisions with 100 thousand Croatian citizens, primarily with 125,000 CHF debtors, but also with maybe 100 to 200,000 EUROs and kuna debtors when talking about interest rates. What's the state doing about it? The state does absolutely nothing on this issue, the state monitors, observes, when I ask the ruling to do something in this regard, they correspond very demagoguely and very indeterminately. So I asked Minister Bosnjakovic yesterday, Mr. Minister, if you would support the final verdict in the case of Franak for the consumer's benefit, would you support it systematically by law and the minister said that he did not want to talk about what would happen if it were, and I specifically asked him a question. What if it's positive? So, to ask what if it's positive, it answers if it's positive I won't support it or I'll support it. However, there is no such answer. The finance ministry has done nothing to resolve the illegal interest margins, I have proposed a solution, nothing has done about it. Banks, banks have been acting on their own for more than a decade, under the blessing of the CNB, under the blessing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and under the blessing of the Croatian Parliament. The courts are working too slow, here it says what I expect from the Supreme Court, I expect the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to urgently decide whether the debtors who converted CHF loans to compensation on the basis of a collective court ruling are entitled. Do we have to wait for the debtors to die before they reach their rights? Doesn't it really matter to the state that the damaged debtors get their money from which the Croatian banks robbed them? Croatian banks have robbed Croatian debtors of more than 10 billion kunas only on the basis of unfair contractual provisions from the Swiss franc currency clause loan. How many billions of kunas for EURO and kuna loans we don't know. On the other hand, these same banks in the Republic of Croatia charge interest rates that are 100 to 200% higher than in developed EU countries. How is it possible for banks who behave unfairly and illegally allow them to further drive Croatian citizens with too much interest, too much compensation and any other costs that arise in the banking sector? The state can handle it. People tell me that when they ask for the documentation they need for the lawsuits, some banks charge 500, 600, 700 kuna, imagine a situation where for some 10 sheets, 15 sheets at worst, the bank collects 700 kuna fees, imagine that situation. And just because we're not prescribed by our laws, banks have to deliver these documents for free to people who require documentation for such purposes. I have proposed recently as part of amendments to a law to prescribe it, but the government of the Republic of Croatia has rejected this proposal. It is the Consumer Protection Act, and I have proposed that a provision be put in place to ensure that, in the case of a collective court dispute, consumers are found to be damaged that such consumers who are entitled to go to their own private court proceedings, that such consumers have the right to obtain free of charge all necessary documentation from the banks. Not only do banks collect that documentation, but some banks don't want to give that documentation in general if the loan is paid, because they say we're done with you legal work and we have nothing with you anymore. And the state says so, the banks don't have to give it, why should they give it, whoever cuts the citizens, the banks are sacred cows, and let the citizens suffer. So what kind of state doesn't care about more than 10 billion kunas, which banks stole from Croatian citizens, being returned to Croatian citizens, then spending some of that money, at least 5 billion kuna and ending up in GDP. And for those other five billion kunas, so people can take care of their future, make it easier for them. Why the state doesn't care, why you don't listen to what I'm saying, I what I'm saying is justified, I don't joke here, I'm telling the truth. Everything I say is justified, based on judgments, based on EU directives, based on EU Court rulings and European Court of Human Rights rulings. The EU court said that if unfair contractual provisions are established and we are talking about banks here, these unfair contractual provisions must be laid down, then 3 basic rules must be applied. Rule number one, contract provisions are unfair from the beginning. Second rule, there is a subjective right to compensate every consumer who has negotiated such unfair contractual provisions with the trader. And the third rule must be returned from the beginning, which has been charged unfairly and illegally. What are we doing? Nothing. We leave the citizens to their fate, we leave them to uncertain court proceedings, first of all because our courts are not 100% sure about all this, we never know how they're going to judge. We are now waiting for some decisions of the Supreme Court, so I appeal to all of us and here, there are few of us, but probably someone will listen to it somewhere outside of this assembly, at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to the CNB, to do everything possible to enable citizens who are damaged by the business of Croatian banks to get their money. Not only that, it is necessary to regulate bank fees, it is also possible to limit them, rather than to charge for fat-based papers that simply print by clicking on their PC, interest rates must be made within the framework of developed EU countries because we are not a risk country for consumer credits. Most consumer loans, above all those housing loans, return regularly, there are no major problems, problems are some regular minuses, teleopers, etc. However, when it comes to loans, there are no large number of bad loans, there are, but in the part where they are just given a hand and a hat for some unintended needs. So what we're really doing is not good. We allow the banks to protect their capital maximum, and we do not allow citizens to get their rights and therefore in the future we must change that policy and we must finally go to the protection of Croatian citizens who have suffered the unfair and illegal business of Croatian banks for 15 years. I'm telling you that there are a large number of dissatisfactions who are already preparing and protesting, and don't be surprised if it happens in a month, two, that people will protest over your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127496	Thank you, too. First of all, I would like to welcome the students of the craftsmen and the industrial construction schools of Zagreb who are with us today at the gallery, please welcome them with a round of applause... Thank you for being with us. [[Applause]] And after that, give the word to Mr. Lovrinovic, who asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127497	Dear fellow Alexic, for about 6 years we have also been fighting together at the Franak Association for victims who have died due to the currency clause. However, it is my great hope, and also for Croatian citizens that this victory will be final, it will be the greatest victory of the citizens of activists over these structures of banking, predatory and this political authority that only understands and supports them. And you signed, which I thank you for, you're one of the 34 MPs who signed a request for the governor of the CNB to be called to a public hearing here at HS and this letter was sent to the president of HS a week ago, and I expect him to call the governor to answer, among other things, these questions that you asked here today. But I'm asking you, why is she so tough, why is this, not just this one, but the previous government? and institutions do not respect the interests of consumers and citizens [[Invasion: Mr. Lovrinović's time, thank you]] already prefer [[Intruder: Thank you]] financial institutions. [[Intruder: Mr. Alexic, answer]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127498	Mr. Alexic, answer
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127499	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear colleague Lovrinović, the answer is very simple, and it is not that simple, there are several reasons. The first reason is that there are really lobbys lobbying for the interests of large capital, and these lobbies have an impact on both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the CNB, and also on HS, that is one of the reasons. The second reason is the lack of interest of the MPs in this problem in the sense that they often listen to me, but they don't want to understand what I'm talking about, I'm talking about, but they don't understand me and they don't want to understand. They think, I'm not talking about everyone, but they think I'm talking smart, they tell me in the halls, but when I get a little deeper into the conversation, I see that they don't understand what I'm talking about, if they understood, I believe they'd be running towards the protection of Croatian citizens, because what they're doing to the banks is a robbery, Croatian citizens have been robbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127500	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the debates, Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127501	Dear Secretary, we are talking about the directive, the recovery of banks and other credit institutions. Our people have listened to a number of directives, our people have financed a lot of credit institutions, rehabilitated credit institutions that are now in foreign hands, and now these same ones from these same centres are able to send us how they will protect the citizens this time and that citizens will not rehabilitate credit institutions and banks. I am interested in several questions that are much more important to me, those which the people ask questions, those who would like to clarify to the people, which is why in the Republic of Croatia, the most fees and fees are allocated to the EU, the banks take 4 billion kuna, not for interest, but 4 billion kuna for fees and fees that have no idea what number, citizens are interested in why the CNB, which is why there is no revision of the business of the CNB, business, we are not talking about interference in monetary policy, citizens are interested in why there is no public debate on the introduction of the EUR i.e. Why is there no referendum on why there is no direct democracy? Why isn't that discussed? What brings a good euro and what brings a bad euro? And a referendum to be called and the people to decide. Not to be decided by exorcists and their listeners in the Republic of Croatia who conduct the same policy. They don't have any colleagues, here's Churi. I see you're saying something under your chin right now. There's nothing better and more correct than direct democracy and public debate. And a referendum. We see that Lovre Kuščević struck the Institute's referendum, that he stole the right to the people's direct decision, and also on these important topics such as the introduction of the euro and the abolition of the kuna as a national sovereign currency, then we need to discuss it. He needs a public hearing. Well, there are people who know that, there are also in the Parliament, here, before me spoke Mr. Lovrinović who could express his views and such a large number of our experts who would say the arguments for and arguments against. And all we have here is for the introduction of the euro. And that's it. The one against the euro is backward, it has no right to vote and it is not a democracy. Democracy is a public debate and these are the issues we should discuss, not the message sent by the euro representative, so what is this Parliament doing? In any event, Brussels shall decide on two-thirds of the laws. Then let's just admit that, one of us, let's name their MPs, is what we're going to call him and shut this parliament down. Well, as it goes, that's what's gonna happen. Those are those questions that I'm personally interested in. I'm interested in the passed Law on the value of Austrian Raiffeisen's credit, what was the name of these banks, the famous Lex Schibol, my colleague. So I hear that the great resistance to the courts of Europe that our citizens will not realize that those who gave criminal credit to our citizens, the entire islands have become owners on the island of Rab, in the coast, these are interest rates and are not in line with our monetary policy or with the CNB. Hungary's got this savings credit co-operative on its feet. In Austria, they are portrayed as illegal, and who is now protecting against the European courts of Croatian citizens who are damaged by these savings credit cooperatives? So, pro-forma has been passed lex Scybola, in order to survive this majority and every honor of fellow Members, I have voted for this law, and now no one defends in the courts on this problem, and I repeat, in Hungary simply, in Austria therefore comes and even hear that it has appointed an Austrian judge in the European Court of Justice, from Austria, it is an equident example of conflict of interest, of course, that it will protect its own, while in Austria and the savings credit cooperatives of their owners are persecuting their attorneys, illegal, but our citizens are not protected, however, no matter what this parliament has passed that law at that time exclusively to survive then the ruling commercial majority. To survive and to wait as if we were to sit with the European Council. I'll ask you a few more questions. We live in a state where there's no gram of gold. And now the loudest ones here come out first for a pay phone, here's finally a law that protects credit institutions, banks, people, citizens, and basically, the Croatian state sold 13.5 tons of gold. Was there a referendum on that? Did anyone ask the citizens if they could sell that gold? And now a fellow Shuker, it was in his time, he first comes out for a pay phone on behalf of the club and I'm really, sorry he's not here and he says it's finally time for this law to be passed. So these are the directives of the two-thirds of the laws that are coming. In fact, we can see that most of them even send messages to discuss this with me. Why discuss these problems? So, parliament, parliamentary representatives, those who should protect the interests of the people, not Brussels or I don't know, Vienna, Merkelica, Juncker, Tusk, exclusively the interests of the citizens. Once again, I ask you, do you have the exact amount of this last year's expenses, I have about 4.5 billion kuna, the cost of the bank's fees, what's their profit? I'm not talking about interest, I'm talking about fees and commissions. Four billion kuna. Annuals. Do you have that information, can you confirm it for me? This is very important because citizens ask me that it is not clear to them that they are taking these foreign banks, but that is how we behave and in telecommunications huge money draws, energy, over windparks huge money, so we must finally say this Parliament, yes, we are the ones the people have chosen and we are the ones who will not be obedient to Brussels. Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127502	A few replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127503	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, dear colleague Bulj. You wondered how the fees were so high. Well, by allowing it to the CNB, which allows the legislator, which doesn't limit them. Since we bordered on the fact that neither entry nor exit fees can exist in housing, we can generally limit any fees used by banks in our business. If you look at the offer of a loan in Germany, you will see that this nominal interest rate and effective interest rate are almost not different. What does that mean? This means that there are no special fees and costs around a loan but the only cost is an interest rate because banks need to make money on it, and besides that the only cost is that interest rate, this interest rate in Croatia alone is 100% of 200% higher than in Germany, so except that 100% to 200% more earning at the interest rate in Croatia than in Germany, they earn even more on fees, so it is a crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127504	Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127505	Your fellow Alexic is the only thing you are asking for because you are the culprit and others who are looking for, you are required in Croatia to be the same conditions for our citizens in this case in terms of loans as in Germany. No less, no more, no more millimeters, no more millimeters. Is this the right of our citizens if we are calling on the EU as an institution of equal peoples, citizens of the same rights, but it's not our people robbing, you said well, it's a softer sentence, it's a kidnapping, it's a hack, it's what, it's worse than when they were all rulers in history. In the most morbid way, they rob our people as in the same union for all citizens where the same law applies. That's why the voice is not taken seriously, because those institutions don't want to take you seriously and that everyone can hear you. Your voice is hard to hear but I will give you support always, as well as boredom in any, in any way I vote for your proposals as well as others. but it's a fact [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that they aim to keep your voice from being heard. [[Intruder: Thank you, second replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127506	The second line will be given by Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127507	Dear fellow Bulj, you spoke of direct democracy, me and you were on the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure yesterday where we saw one obstruction of the referendum on the electoral law, so it will be likely to be a referendum on the EUR. So when it comes to the interests of some other groups, a referendum or direct democracy in this Croatia will not be allowed. And to collect 500,000 signatures on the EUR referendum, he will not be allowed because he is in the interest of some other groups, not Croatia of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127508	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127509	Thank you. A colleague of Sladolev, of course, is that the only thing that is fair and fair about the important issues to be directly, to direct democracy and referendum, but the referendum will not be but those who seek a referendum and who are fighting for a referendum, the greatest defenders of civil, human freedoms, minorities, social democratic attitudes, yesterday's fellow Pupavac has been insulting Mr. Podolnjak all the time, just insulting. I wish my colleague Pupavac had come here today, so he represented the interests of going to the referendum and around the EUR and around all the other laws. I am personally, not for the introduction of the EUR, but personally I am that the people decide at the referendum and that experts explain to us why, for or against. But of course Governor Vujčić is now in the Brussels halls with these credit cooperatives of his rather than his employers walking and he says we're introducing, we're entering the Eurozone. The one who allowed Todorovic to make 10 billion Kuna bianco the debtor uses. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127510	I don't see Mr. Pupovac, but I see Mr. Lovrinović looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Bulj, you are probably familiar, I have already talked about, in the assembly, that a significant number of Croatian citizens have been seeking foreign savings in Serbia, because they have been saving in the former Yugoslavs, these people have gone crazy to say so, they do not know what to do, a year and a half ago the Serbian parliament has made a decision, the law to pay for old foreign savings as well as all other citizens of the former Yugoslavia, but while the other republics and their current governments have taken concrete steps and have given them support and legal advice, they do not know, they cannot solve the problem, they are reporting to us in the party to change Croatia, other representatives, the government in the area for a year and a half does nothing. You see, this is a concrete example when we talk about this law and these citizens of ours that we have to fight for. I call upon the government and please tell me why this government treats our citizens this way, does not protect them, and these laws He just wants to.../incomprehensible/... protect the bankers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127512	Mr. Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127513	I will begin immediately from the end, because Plenkovic is far more important to what Angela Merkel, Tusk, Junker and others say than the needs of our citizens. what Serbia would tribal pay their bank to our citizens. We have no policy that protects those who choose us, those who give us the legitimacy to represent them. All of us who speak these words, when you say another, different attitude from those policies, you, you are gone, you are invisible, you have no availability anywhere. Which is why Croatia, if these facts were presented, would not be a condition for opening negotiations with Serbia in general to open it, of course. So let's remember what it did to Croatia when it joined the EU, the Tribals arrested all generals All documentation from the Homeland War [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the exclusive economic belt has not been declared [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127514	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127515	I thank the Vice President, dear colleague Bulj, even though we are talking here today about something that I think we're going to bring with us, it's just that this debate doesn't seem that way, since it's about everything else. However, when you mention the EUR introduced, I think that it works precisely for the public who does not have full information, you should say that the exact details of what it means in the introduction of the EUR, in the elimination of the currency risk, in general when we say that there is no risk, the precedent and the depreciation of the kuna, means that the kuna cannot be weakened so that we pay more if our loans are in EUR or cannot be strengthened, so that we have an export problem because 60% and trade and we are working on the EU, 75% of the savings are already in the euro, the interest rate has 5 of some of the main specifics that define it, while two are reducing. The risk premium is reduced and regulatory costs are reduced leading to a reduction in interest rate. So there are a lot of these reasons for and therefore, I agree that citizens should be informed, of course they have the issue of inflation and conversion as a cost as negative things.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127516	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127517	Thank you very much. You have said your views for the euro, many will say they must present real attitudes of the profession, people who choose in the public debate, before the referendum against. So are you agreeing to be a referendum, not to fall on someone in Brussels who had a... from Croatia, not in Brussels, but our Croatians who have their ambitions and that means facing and yes, I am personally against, but that is my position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're in, that's your attitude. Why wouldn't it be a referendum in a professional debate, a public debate, and why wouldn't it be called? Which is why it took away the right of the people to decide on such an important thing in the referendum after the public debate which was all indicators and what you said about or against, it doesn't matter but let the people decide on it. We have an absolute dictatorship at the moment where a group of individuals decide on everything and even on the introduction of the euro or non-introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127518	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the Living Walls and SNAGA's Club, the respected representative, Ivan Pernar, will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127519	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the media are willing to tell you everything but the truth about the credit system. All except why credit institutions break down, which is on the one hand, the fact that loans are technically non-refundable, theoretically non-refundable, because money for interest payments does not exist and the other part of the reason is that banks are creating money from the air, so banks are literally creating no money. Why does the state allow private banks to actually play the role of the state or to make an emission of money that doesn't even exist through that credit and deposit multiplier? It's a question that all economists know about, meaning at economic colleges, teach students that money is created from the air. At economic colleges they teach students that perhaps from 5 kn savings in the bank, perhaps one kuna in Croatia really exists in the base or so to say, in paper and these 4 kn are virtual. And nobody asks a question about it, the media doesn't discuss it at all, the media says the state can't have the right to create real money like the state can't raise money and take it from the central bank. As it does not, as well as it will lead to inflation and when the bank through this process of credit and deposit multiples creates imaginary money, means money it does not have and places it into circulation, no one has any problem with it. Why doesn't the media mind that the state can't create real money and put it into circulation and don't mind when private banks create imaginary money out of the air and place it in circulation? And why is that? Because they both have the same impact on inflation, so it doesn't matter whether you come into the store and pay 10 kn with a bill or you draw a card and pay with that deposit money. Money that actually doesn't exist because the system registers it as if the money was received. My guess is that the media is corrupt, my guess is that the credit institutions they hold in slavery are our people and the state, that they finance the media through advertising and that according to this, the media must not question that farce. They can't, because it's not a question to anyone. It's just me who I am. To us from the Living Wall that we're populists, it's questionable to us. And what is the result of this policy? Well, the result is that both the state and the people are in unembarkable debt slavery, the result is that the state is endlessly raising loans to repay old loans, the result is that citizens go from card to card, to one credit to another, so that's the result of that policy. The result of this policy is that on the one hand, we have money, so society is broke and on the other hand we have an enormous debt. So how is that possible? Where's the money? The system is simply financially corrupt, the laws are made in a way that suits private banks without harming the state and citizens. The biggest con, i.e. One of the scams is that the central bank is our currency exchanger, which actually doesn't have any kuna money emissions at all. Private banks don't borrow kunas from the central bank to get to the kuna they give you as loans. No, they're borrowing the euro outside, so the euro in the CNB is turning it into kuna, which is why the loans with the currency clause are. The currency clause is actually a sign that we're under monetary occupation, the currency clause is the symbol of occupation. Have you read anything about it in the media? Well, no. The media don't talk about it, it's normal for them. Or if it's not even normal, it's an irrelevant question for them, and what are the important questions? The important issues the media is discussing are when Spritz said she was a Serbian prime minister who became a mom or a dad and then the debate is whether she's mom or dad and then the debate is whether she's a mom or a dad to that kid she didn't give birth to. That's what the media is talking about. It's interesting to the media, and what the process of making money is, why we have enormous debts and we don't have money, it has no debate about it. Nobody cares about that. According to Glasnovic, he stole money from a communist. Mr. Glasnovic, this neoliberal system will destroy us all and the communists are tiny fish in that whole story. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127520	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when you get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127521	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, second reading, P.Z. No. 494. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. I find that most votes 100 FOR and 1 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127522	We are now going to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of president and members of the National Sports Council; the motion is the Government of the Republic of Croatia by virtue of Article. Four sports laws. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Sport Office Kresimir Shami, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127523	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. According to Art. 3 Sport Act, National Sports Council for sport is the most professional advisory body that cares for the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia. The National Council discusses issues of importance for sport and proposes and encourages measures to improve sports. It gives an opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the draft proposal for a national sport programme, gives an opinion on priority projects, labs and studies to be financed in the public needs system in sport. It sets out guidelines for the creation of rules on the categorisation of athletes, gives an opinion on training programmes for professional work in sport and proposes conditions that must meet the training institutions in sport, lays down guidelines for the construction, categorisation of sports buildings at national level, gives opinions and recommendations on the draft rules relating to sport, gives an opinion on the draft of a network of sports buildings, on the search of the Ministry of Sport's tasks, gives a preliminary opinion on the existence of an interest in the Croatian citizenship of a natural person in the system of sports which is a foreign citizen and performs other tasks established by the Law on Sport and other regulations. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4th century 1 of the Sport Act, the National Sports Council has a president and 12 members who appoint and resolve HS and 6 members on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 3 members on a proposal from the Croatian Olympic Committee, one member on a proposal from the Croatian Paralympic Committee, one member on a proposal from the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf, one member on a proposal from the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb. HS is proposed to make the next decision. As president of the National Sports Council on a proposal from the Government, Danira Bilić is named as members of the National Sport Council, Perica Bukić, Sanda Čorak, Željan Konsuo, Ante Baković, Drazen Čular and Petar Ceronja, at the proposal of the Croatian Olympic Committee Željko Jerkov, Mario Meštrović and Tomislav Grahovac, at the proposal of the Croatian Paralympic Committee Ratko Kovačić, at the proposal of the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf Mario Lušić and at the proposal of the KIF University of Zagreb Tomislav Krističević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127524	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Deputy Secretary of State. You yourself have said, I quote you: "The National Sports Council is the most professional body that cares about the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia." Can you explain to me, then, if it is the most professional body that cares for the development and quality of sports in the Republic, that in 2016 six members expired their mandate and that for 2 years you were unable to name 6 new members. How did the National Council work in those two years in the first place? Did it participate in the development of strategic documents and how and by what criteria did you postpone these six members appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127526	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Yeah. Excuse me. Vice-President of the Board, Honorable Representative Stephen Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127527	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. So, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports at the 29th session held on 31 January this year discussed the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Sports Council, which was delivered to the Government by the Government in that proposal, as you heard from the Secretary of State. Act of 20 December. So, in the opening statement, the committee explained exactly what we had and the opportunities to hear from fellow Jovanovic, who are obligations and appointments and from which the law stems, however, as well as that in 2016 the mandate for 6 members of the National Sports Council, instead of which no one has been appointed so far, and 2018 has expired for the remaining 6 members and the president. Since the legislator's intensities were to change half of the members of the National Sports Council every 2 years, the proposal to appoint all 12 members and presidents to a term of four years is not in a long law. For this reason, the proposer felt it would be good to make a draw in order to decide which of the proposed members would be appointed for a term of office of 2 years and which, for a term of four years, would be appointed. At the time of the first appointment, the National Sports Council in the transitional and final provisions of the Sport Act was intended to scribble at the time of the first appointment, which is also consummated as a, i.e. a consummated legal provision. So, very clearly. And every two years, it's supposed to change, and it's missed out, and now we have one situation that we would basically derivate if we were to name it for four years. Of course, we can't name only half, so half of us wait two years, and I don't think it's in the debate that's coming, and the board members have exactly that kind of proposal and supported it. It is because the legislator did not provide for the situation to be suddenly appointed by the whole composition except in that original situation which was already provided for in those transitional and final provisions. So, after holding the debate, the members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports unanimously supported the next conclusion, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, proposes to the HS to adopt a proposal for a decision appointing the president and members of the National Sports Council. Also, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports proposes to the HS to reach the next conclusion, before making a decision to appoint the president of the National Sports Council, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, to carry out the scribbling, to determine which of the 5 members of the National Sports Council will be appointed for a term of office of 2 years, which will be 6 members for a term of office of 4 years. Namely, this does not mean that those appointed to two years will not be able to get a re-nomination, we know which secretary of state read on behalf of the promoter by which the key is named, so only then will it be necessary to re-apply the tender and then, within two years, select new members and 6 members for the term of office of 4 years. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127528	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the honourable representative Marijan Kustic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127529	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Secretary of State, Mr. Shami, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we do not often have a chance in this high school to talk about sports, so here is today's debate on the proposal for a decision to appoint a president and members of the National Sports Council should be used maximum to improve the working conditions for our athletes. I believe that you will all agree that sport is the best and biggest promoter in Croatia in the world. The importance of this body is evident as it discusses issues of importance for sport and proposes and encourages measures to improve sports, gives an opinion on priority projects and elaborates, studies, how it will be financed in the system of public needs in sport, sets out guidelines for the making of rules on the categorisation of athletes, gives an opinion on training programmes for professional work in sport and proposes conditions in which the institutions for training of sports staff are required, sets out guidelines for the making of rules relating to the construction and categorisation of sports buildings at country level. What is very important is the opinion on the draft proposal for a network, sports buildings, on the search for the ministry responsible for sports affairs, and it is also important to note that the opinion is previously on the existence of an interest in the admission to Croatian citizenship of natural persons in the system of sports that are foreign citizens. Since all the members and members of the National Sports Council so far have expired, on the Committee, we have heard, on the Committee, that the Committee on Family and Youth and Sports has decided that, before the appointment of the president of the Sports Council, there will be a glimmer, which six members will be appointed for 2 years, while the other members of the president will be appointed for 4 years. All the proposed members of the National Sports Council have been renowned athletes and professionals who have contributed to the recognizability of sports in Croatia through their previous work and sports successes. Here, according to all this I have already stated, the HDZ Club will support this proposal to appoint the president and members of the National Sports Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127530	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is this SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127531	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since the deputy has not responded to me in my replica, I will also repeat in this debate on behalf of the club how it could have happened that the most professional body that cares about the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia for two years did not have 6 of its members, precisely those to be appointed by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, I find that it is unforgivable, and that only once again shows that we are treating sport fairly declaratively, that we are all together and for sport when we expect our top athletes, and that, when the cameras are shut down, there are a number of problems that cannot be solved. We have heard all the powers and tasks of the National Sports Council and it is therefore important that it works, so I am interested, Deputy Secretary of State, in how the Council has functioned over the past period and whether it has contributed in accordance with the powers it has in drawing up strategic documents for the development of Croatian sport. I also asked you the question I asked you in the replica, again, in which way and by which criteria you chose members of the National Sports Council, which go to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal. So, I agree with my colleague Kustic, all of these are people for whom I have no objection, each of them being, among other things, well present in sports, either as a athlete, or as a official, but when we appoint such bodies, it is also necessary to take care of regional belongings. Therefore, in all the bodies appointed here before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HS would have to make sure that the proposed members of individual bodies, as well as the National Council for Sports, are represented all Croatian regions and that in this way contribute, develop Croatian sport and create strategic documents throughout Croatia. Also, if we are already proposing more members, then it would be good for different sports to be represented, not that from one sport no matter what sport it is, we have more candidates, and other sports to be completely neglected. Here, therefore, without contesting any name on this list, I think it's all valuable and quality people, and I'll have a similar debate when we have health care, so this is not an exception, I don't think the structure is well affected. If we look at proposal 6, including the president, then we have Mr. Danir Bilic, an economist, we have Perica Bukic, an economist, we have Dr. Sandu Chorak, economist, basketball, water polo, judo. So that's okay. They're all from Zagreb. And then we have another water polo representative, so I don't think it's necessary to double into the National Council of Two Sports, regardless of what Mr. Konsuo did, a great sports worker who did a huge job in Dubrovnik. Then we have a representative of the KIF from Split, and we have Mr Ceronju coming from the area of banking law. If we look at members who are not appointed by the Parliament, they are representatives from Split, Vinkovac, Zagreb, Bjelovar, Split and again Zagreb. So, since I come from the coastal-goran county of Istria, you understand what I'm saying. I consider it necessary to make sure that in these 6 proposed by the Croatian Government and HS, the region that is gravitating towards Rijeka team before being a candidate in the proposed names coming from the field of law, sports law and who is the head of the development of a national sport strategy. So I don't understand how there was no room for Mr. Dr. Sc. Outside of Smokin, who as a lawyer, an expert in sports law and a leader of sports strategy had to find his place then in this proposal. For this reason, members of the SDP Club will vote according to their own free will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127532	Thank you very much. The next is the Club of Representatives of the CNS on behalf of which the Honorable Representative Stjepan Curaj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127533	I thank the Vice President, the esteemed deputy, colleagues and colleagues, very briefly, I think that absolutely here is an unquestionably, undeniably, this decision. As regards the right to propose, I think it is necessary to note the government's proposal to elect a president and also to elect members on the proposal of the Government, the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Paralympic Committee, the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf and also the proposal of the Faculty of Kinesiology of the University of Zagreb. So we've got an authorised promoter and everyone's done their job. Of course, if the government came out of this House, from a certain position, that it always has the right to propose its candidates, when the government is changed, then probably all those actors who have been appointed and proposed in that mandate will change, as has been the case so far. So, I don't see anything controversial here, the right of every proposing suggests that he is the one who, for those reasons, if, of course, all the preconditions are met here, and we see that they are from the attached résumés, we suggest. What I said and on behalf of the board, so, that vacuum that we had and that legal uncertainty that was caused above all, I think we know what happened in the period from 2016-2017, and the inability to coordinate and operate the then formed authority, which was, not full of a year and why it also fell apart, and then practically until the formation of a new one, that is not only the reason for this, this determination, but also much more important and much more important, not by reducing the importance of this National Council in the sport for the functioning of the state decisions that stood, what it is all about to say healthyly hung over its head, and I think it's actually clear to everyone, because of one crisis, because of a paralysing situation that was then, and the authorities that we have, we can see exactly why it wasn't made. Of course that wasn't good, and now we've had some consequences, being only in these things but also many others. The HNS Club will, of course, support this proposal and we also believe that that proposal in front of the board, which I hope you will all support this proposal, and we also believe that that proposal is in front of the board, which I hope you will all support, in the end of the line was unanimous on the board to carry out the gnawing, means that some are appointed for 2 years, and some at 4, in the long-term law, and actually the law enforcement will be fulfilled so that it is really then entered into that rhythm, that every 2 years the competitions and the members change. So, I think it's the most honest and fairest, at the very end of the line, those people who will be scratched for two years can again be, there's no legal obstacle, re-elected, for an additional term of four years, etc. So we can get into one cyclical circle the way it's supposed to be. So, as far as sports is concerned, I think that this topic is absolutely beating, and we can practically say sports nation, we all live and love sport and especially our ambassadors in the world when they achieve these results, but then when the lights go out, the situation that a lot of problems have, a lot of needs, and always a little money. We must develop a system that directs sport to where it is most needed, according to the youngest, to children, to the quality of development and children and how physically, of course, but also to the educational one, and I think it is the key and what we should all concentrate on when we bring both budgets and all legislation, and really sport does not become a sense of itself but that it has the right meaning, and that is for, in addition to success in senior categories, concentration, there is also a fellow Jovanovic mentioned a health component that we really cannot, especially now, ignore. And that's why I've, on several occasions, pointed out on committees, that the point of investing in numbers is to popularize certain sports, as much as we literally remove children from computers, to put them in collectives, that simple and this segment of life that is not, especially for us who have dealt with sports, more or less, or even at a professional level, I know what I've been going through, I know what I've experienced, which all the benefits, of course, were the more negative things and how it builds up a person as a whole. I think that there is a priority that we all have to focus on funding sports based on the number of youth drive itself, and not only on the results, when we talk primarily about funding at local level based on the results of senior teams because we have to invest in our future, and these are always our children, especially when we talk about their sports successes and provide them with the best conditions that they can get, and especially those who show exceptional characteristics and values, we really need this, that we do not happen by chance or by the will of enthusiasm of certain parents and their financial opportunities rather than that the state, local self-government, local self-government, cares systematically about the great potentials that we think as a sports nation certainly showed in all competitions. Here's another thank you,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127534	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, the respected Goran Maras, loses his right to speak, and the next one will be by the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As the colleague said earlier, and also colleague Kustic, it is extremely rare for us to talk about sports in the Croatian Parliament, so it is good to take this opportunity to say once again to what extent is the sport important for healthy society? to what extent sport is important to prevent a number of problems that we have in adulthood and older age, and therefore it is important that everything we can do as HS and do to ensure better conditions for sport. So we have to believe that all of us agree that the financing of Croatian sport is extremely problematic and that the possibility of playing sports is very uneven for children throughout Croatia, so that membership fees paid by children are rarely a big problem. I therefore expect the National Council to start working as soon as possible and to make its concrete contribution to both the strategy and the plan that is being drawn up, as well as all new legal documents that we need to welcome as soon as possible. So it's worth repeating the data that is worrying, which is that our teenagers are among the worst in Europe, that our teenagers are at the top of those who drink bigger quantities of alcoholic beverages weekly and that above the average ESPAD research and in all other addiction problems, and that the problem of gambling and staying in front of the computer is growing. So these are some problems that the National Council must account for and offer solutions that will ensure that our young people, above all, grow up healthy. And then from that great pyramid of young people will grow up to be top athletes who will make us happy and represent us all over the world. I would take advantage of the opportunity and ask the Deputy Secretary of State, what is his position and what is the government's position towards the Opatija Initiative, which was very well accepted, we heard a promise from Prime Minister Plenkovic and President Jandrokovic, so an initiative that should have systemically resolved funding, primarily team sports, but also to provide money for other sports sports in Croatia where it would provide transparently for the financing of sports and free parents from the need to pay membership fees for sports clubs, which would certainly mean a larger base for young people who are engaged in sports. I think that's one of the priorities the Central State Sport Office should have in its term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127536	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127537	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Jovanovic. You have said well that sport needs more attention to the public, and even here through the discussion in HS, thank you very much to all athletes who achieve excellent results and thus promote Croatia. But, of course, it should be said once again, that these athletes or most of them have developed somewhere in rural areas, in small areas and that through the work of the National Council, it is certain that more national funding is allocated to finance these sports in rural areas, small sports, conditionally said in small areas because both gymnastics and athletics and rowing achieve good results, and they are not invested as much as they should. And he's particularly a little invested in school sports. And certainly in those areas where school sports halls have not been built, and there are building permits, that government and ministry, and also the Central Sport Office must find a way to build halls and in small areas, such as. The municipality of Sikirevci or the municipality of Dragalić, where for years children do not have a school gym. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127538	Answer, the esteemed representative of Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127539	Yes, my colleague, you're absolutely right. So, the priority is to create a society of equal opportunities for all, where for the development of a healthy society in the first place are the conditions where every child in each part of the Republic must have the right to equal education and the possibility of sports. Unfortunately, from their personal contacts with numerous sports club leaders across Croatia, I know that the situation is extremely difficult, almost critical, so that already many sports clubs are thinking about whether to compete in some higher leagues because they simply do not have the conditions to practice sports. And all in the end, when they are younger adults, it comes down to parents who have to finance it themselves, and many parents, unfortunately, are no longer able to do that, which automatically means that part of the children is denied the possibility of sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127540	The next replica of the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Jovanovic. I believe that you have read or at least seen a national sport program that is right in the public debate, I believe you are familiar with the content of this document. You yourself were a minister, what you're talking about, we can say it's not from today. I agree that, unfortunately, children do not have the same conditions in all our environments, but this can be changed in the way that they think, for example, Minister of Finance and Government of the Republic of Croatia, that, apart from gambling, which stands out about 35% for co-financing of sports, some other tax reliefs are also considered. I believe that you will welcome this government effort, just as the Government has made a step forward, for example compared to 2016, for this year the funds that are now being raised to co-finance sport 336 million kuna and I believe you will also support this document for which, I say, it is in a public debate so you can get involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127542	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127543	Thank you very much, dear colleague Glavak. I agree with what you said, the problem is not since yesterday, the problem has been for years, but you are wrong when you talk about understanding and the needs of athletes, sports workers and all those who have proposed a solution when adopting this budget because not one proposal from the Central State Sport Office has the finance minister respected. So everything the Central State Sport Office has proposed, the finance minister has failed to respect, and I will repeat, I want to hear an indication of what is going on with the Opatija Initiative because it is precisely proposing what you are talking about, some additional sources of funding that would allow a transparent way of financing Croatian sport and freeing the payment of the membership fee of parents to include their children in sports clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127544	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I believe that the secretary of state will refer to what has been troubled by his colleague Jovanovic. I must say immediately that I would not agree, as far as I am concerned, that no proposal from the Central State Office has come to an understanding when the 2019 budget was agreed on, however, was very comprehensive, at all levels, and especially with the Minister of Finance, of course, which is inevitable, when it comes to the budget. But let's go back a little bit, to ours about what I just said, so, according to sports, I'd say this government is not about decorative, it's about concrete. This is the first government, which has singled out the central state sports office, has given it greater importance, has given it better independence and has given it an opportunity, to be managed by athletes and sports workers, without much political interference, of course, that without politics and some political decisions, no more concrete means can be expected. What exactly am I talking about? Therefore, an increase in the budget of the Central State Sport Office, with EUR 200 million, which the government ran into 300 million in 2018. In 2019, 336 million was allocated out of the budget. So, 119 million kn more than it was in 2016. Of course, from its perspective athletes will say that it is not enough, it will never be enough money and it will never be equivalent to what we actually get back from our top athletes, there is not a single promotion that can compensate for such a great promotion, as we have, for example, thanks to our football players or thanks to our tennis players, I'm only talking about the most recent events. I have already said that in public debate and e-consultation the national sport programme was released in 2019-2026. So we all have opportunities to get involved in giving from the level of the Croatian Parliament, many relations were also athletes, maybe they are involved in some sports clubs, they know what the problems are, so we are going to participate in the same way. When it comes to the central state sports office and the way of funding, I will repeat once again that they are concerned with the distribution of revenue from gambling, that percentage, from the distribution of gambling is at 35%, we will see if this will be able to change. According to the finance minister's announcements, other potential sources of detachment for sport will also be discussed. We should note that when we talk about investments in sports at local level, after the law on the financing of the unit of local and regional self-government has been in force, more than 20% have exceeded initial expectations, so 2.1 billion kuna, the actual incomes from income tax on local self-government. So there's a certain shift, positive of course made or step out when we're talking about units of local self-government. Less or almost nothing is known in public, that the first time EU funds were withdrawn from the European Social Fund, 100 million kunas were withdrawn, out of which 50 million kunas were agreed. A special emphasis was placed on sports, at local levels and 11 million kn was secured in 2019. It is good that there will be an analysis of the tax system with the possibility of introducing tax incentives, so let's also be creative, let's get involved in the right way and give in this sense our suggestions. What has been a problem for years of sport, it is a scholarship of athletes, planning their additional scholarship, if the introduction of a single scholarship for athletes of the first category and pension and health insurance, of course we are talking about those athletes, who would meet the additional conditions. Sport infrastructure, that's something I remember, we've been talking about for 10 years, and even in the Croatian Parliament, that we don't really know what sports facilities we have, what they're in, what they actually belong to, who runs them, how they finance themselves. I think it'll be the same task as the National Sports Council. And the other problem we have to think about, it's actually the lack of adequate or qualified personnel, so we have to have, in fact, one realistic insight into the system of sports. The national sports programme has an interesting subtitle, according to a healthy and active nation proud of sports successes. So that's something where we pull the parallel all the time, play sports, kids socialize, not so much in front of computers, and that's where we all agree. However, I think that through this very document that we can give or make a quality step and this second part proud of sports success, we have been more proud for now, and perhaps less successful in this when we talk about a healthy nation or an active nation. In fact, the task of the document is to minimise all the disadvantages in the sport that we encounter over the years, it was very important to define all the emerging organizational forms of sport, and here we are not just talking about top sports and not just about competition sports, but about that sport that is within our education system, about recreationals, about thousands of those who will never be top athletes, but find their place in sports. On the draft proposal for a national sport programme, you can also look at it on the pages of the central state office, so I would only have the deputy secretary of state warned not to work for you but a day and a half, so I don't know, take a look at what it is, so that's very important, when it comes to consulting so we can get involved in this way. Sports can be another great comparative advantage of ours, except in the sense I was already talking about, which is actually, that athletes or our sports successes are the great promoters of Croatia in any form, however, we may be able to more strongly connect sports and tourism, so there we have great opportunities, great advantages, and also those of medical tourism, therefore more and more is spoken by ministers from different resolutions, in which way we can link these added values that we have in the tourism sense round in some other ways. And finally, I'd like to say about the composition of the National Sports Council, I think when I talk about Mrs. Sandy Chorak, it's nice to say that they're so-called. small sports so there is one of their representatives involved in this way, that in this way we also put experts from different sports in the focus of events and that they can influence and it is very good and I am glad that here is the Sports Federation of the Deaf, for years we mentioned in the Croatian Assembly that so-called. small sports or different other alliances are not adequately represented. Of course, not everyone can be, but I think those who are part of the Croatian Olympic Committee who operate in different organisations that they can contribute adequately to the development of sport. Once again, I invite you to look at the document that has been put into our public debate, it has been organised, there have been a whole series of round tables organized through the Central State Sport Office with national sports associations, and is expected with Zagreb and then the Split Sports Alliance if I am well addressed on February 4th and 5th, so that all levels can include sports alliances and give adequate remarks. Of course, I will support this proposal that the government has sent us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127546	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127547	I thank the esteemed Vice President, this colleague Glavak, you say is not a policy included in sports, I claim that far, far too much, the evidence is here let's say your colleague Franjo Lucic took pictures in Greece when HNS led him there to the match was also the mayor of my county, Žinić, and his mayor who were also at many World Cup games, led by the Croatian Football Federation. Politics is included in sport to the lowest level, to the village football club and it is simply what chokes sports in Croatia. And I don't think there's ever been a worse situation in sports in Croatia, despite these results achieved by our athletes, but I don't have time to talk about it now, so I'm going to talk about it in an individual debate, why they're doing such good results, why I can't post them here while they're in the Republic of Croatia. So politics is in the sport itself until.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127548	The answer of the esteemed representative, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127549	Thank you very much. I sincerely hope you didn't ban these lawyers or politicians from playing sports, for God's sake. Let's imagine that, even now, we're doing sports. So I think in a very clumsy way your replica was interpreted even though you wanted to say it I think we'll finally reach a consensus about something in the Croatian Parliament, which is that we'll all be able to deal with sports. When you talk about policy involvement, you had to listen well to what I said, of course that politics is there, that it creates budgets and that politics has to provide basic means for sports, we're not talking about top-notch professionals, we're talking about education systems, we're talking about recreationals, thousands of young people who are involved in this or that way in different sports for everything and so on, not in competition sports and not those we perceive as getting big money or big funds, it's not funded from the level of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127550	The next exhibition will be the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127551	I thank you, dear Vice President. I think one of the main tasks of the National Sports Council is to redefine the attitude towards sports in Croatia. Because that attitude towards sport isn't good enough, and in some segments it's even harmful, and you'd dare say dangerous. On.../incomprehensible/... on the one hand glorification of top or professional sport and I think that's good. Especially here when it comes to football that is widely followed in the world and there is also a colleague Glavak who has a right, it is a promotion, it is a good promotion. What I didn't like about it, you know when the team gets a big welcome, then when it loses 14 days it's.../incomprehensible/... Well, your team gets the same strong when it wins and loses. It's a sport, so sometimes you get lost in sports, that's the point of sport. And it's not the task of sport to always win, no, the task of sport is to participate in the competition, to spread the spirit, if you will, the ideals of the spirit of olympics. Small sports, sports clubs, why parents have to pay membership fees, and the politics of these sports clubs is also bad, that they raise or work most with children who have a perspective of becoming professional athletes. They do not realize that it is not their function, their function is to encourage recreational sport, to include anything or as large a number as possible. And why now parents who can't pay that membership fee, why would their children be turned off? So if they continue to be disfellowshipped, then that National Sports Council is not doing its job well enough. I remember, what about building sports halls, why we don't have any more school sports halls, where kids could come in this afternoon when there's no class, no nights, play basketball, hit the ball, anyway, that's better than being on the street. In the Socialist Republic of Croatia there was a sports society, and what I could call it, it was called Partizan, there was no membership fee, you came in tennis and jersey, and there you could get the ball, you could do recreational sports, all the kids, all the kids for free. Now, if it could be in the Socialist Republic of Croatia, I don't know why it can't be here in this Croatia. Promising yes, sport is promiscuity but unfortunately sometimes shame. Fan groups, hate speech that spreads to stadiums especially football, mostly football. So look, this is one problem that embarrasses the whole country, all of us, it can't just be the task of the national council, it's the problem of the government, it's the problem of the media, it's the problem of this Parliament if you want to pass the laws, to change them if you need to. But to see the problem and realize that we have to solve this problem, not push it under the carpet. That's the problem with society as a whole. You know if there's such a scandal at a game, the game has to be over, over. I'm sure the cheerleading groups would behave differently. And it's not in every sport, if you go to hockey, it's cheering, it's cheering for its club, but that's where they clap and the opposing team when they make a good move. There, after the game, fans and one club and another party together, they don't fight, they don't insult each other. So in this sense, it must act educationally, if we want sport to be what sport should be, not a polygon to spread hate, but a polygon to spread understanding, cooperation, community and promote ideal Olympic values on how important it is to participate, not always and exclusively and just win.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127552	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, three, excuse me. The first is a respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127553	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, I was offered on the line by one part of your debate when you mentioned sports halls. And indeed this is a fundamental problem of what we want to achieve in the Republic of Croatia primarily through sports halls involving not only children from school but also later recreationals, so all those who want and can engage in sports. And just one of the problems was that local self-government units didn't have enough resources to make it themselves, the ministry, the competent ministry laid down criteria and these criteria were tied to the number of children in schools, so they resorted to different, to tell engineering to build a larger, larger hall so that certain competitions could be held in it. We hope that in the next financial perspective, our representatives in the European Parliament will also be helped to enable the financing of the building of the school sports hall from European funds. And I think that part of your debate is most important because it will allow for then practice, mass sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127554	Thank you. The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127555	It can't be left to local self-government units. Local self-government units don't have all the same money, there are bigger ones, there are smaller ones. And they can't, some can't handle it, and they'll never solve it. The others will. And that's why it has to be a national programme, it has to be supported by the government, maybe by applying to European funds, why not, but it's also a government issue. Because it can't be solved by a small town. Because if we miss it and it's a national strategy, then the kids in those communities will never see the gym.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127556	The next replica is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Stazic, on the financing, I will say once again if you have not heard the information, so for the first time, EU funds have been withdrawn from the European Social Fund 100 million kuna. As for the continuity of love in victory and defeat, I'm afraid we can't prescribe it, we're just like that. When... We love when we win, something less happy when we lose, and that's where I'm afraid it depends on each one of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's nothing we can do about it. And I'd just like to refer to what you've said you've made a dissection with a club called Partizan, Yugoslavia is gone, but I can see that nostalgia is there. We are now in democratic Croatia and we have a system that takes care of sports at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127558	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127559	Of course you can't prescribe the law of love for the club or for the team, it's in itself. But we can develop a culture that's sporting, which is that it's not so important whether we won, but what matters is how it was played, it's important how it cheered, it's important what the atmosphere was like in the stadium, whether we can be proud of it. If we can be proud after the game, then it's either my taste or my attitude towards sports that doesn't matter if it's a result or if it's lost. I remember that sports club Partizan because I went there as a kid to play, it was sports halls, I don't know what's up with them now I'm not a kid anymore, so I'm not going there. It doesn't matter whether it's called Partizan or not, but it's important that it exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127560	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127561	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here, fellow Stazic, you've well noticed that we have these great sports successes, it's nothing strange, it's done in all countries. However, I must say that in this case, often in the past year, which has been remarkable, I have been asked with great sports successes that these sports successes in football, tennis will at least spill a little into smaller environments, smaller environments that have amateur sports, and that amateur sport often lives on several enthusiasts that we also call fanatics in that positive sense of the word and that despite the help they have from local self-government units, it is certainly too small to be at all, that it could be at a certain level. So one financial aid primarily to infrastructure because all of these sports successes would hardly be without these small environments because all of our sports stars, in fact the vast majority of them came from smaller backgrounds and actually the first step they took in the small environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127562	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127563	They spill over into small areas, but unfortunately often negatively through politics. Here, let's remember Penawa. Take pictures of the children, expose them to the shame that resulted in one of them having had an attack. At one sports game, I think it was high school kids, two high school teams. So now instead of taking care of two high school teams, to encourage it, politics gets mixed up in it but in the most brazen way by doing exactly what sport should never be.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127564	The next individual debate will be that respected representative, Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127565	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here I might go with this last line that my colleague Stazic said was sports that should never be. Unfortunately, mixing politics into sports in Croatia is not a big one, but an abnormal one. Why is that evidence? What is the evidence of that? Look, all the greatest sports successes, the biggest athletes gave the most when they went to train abroad. All our football players at the moment when they started playing for foreign football clubs, they became top-notch football players, because they had enabled top-notch and conditions plus the talent they had, to recognize here mostly while their parents drove them to those trainings, and I have a lot of acquaintances who drive their kids for miles to soccer training, pay all these costs in clubs, to get them into some kind of club focus, and then when they recognize them outside, they just go out, get up, get up, get a chance and become top football players. Why did Jacob Fak go to train in Slovenia and not train in Croatia? Well... The man said, because he had no conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A top athlete, a discipline in which we don't have such a man, due to poor conditions and relationships with that man has gone out. Politics is included in the lowest levels of clubs, because today, clubs, to start from the football people closest to them, have so many financial obligations, so much could be invested that they could be trained, if they had all age groups, from judges themselves, the costs of delegates, the maintenance of the game, they simply can't stand it and they have to deal with politicians, with local authorities, who want to have influence on all these clubs just to build their political careers and get votes. So the fact is, my people, I've been in the club business, so I know how it goes. He who is stronger, who is ruling in the city, in the municipality, is trying to dominate the clubs, to later get his voter base. And it's ruining our sport. Why are our tennis players so good? Well, it's also because they train outside. They are not choked by this Croatian administration and this political scene in Croatia, does not choke them and does not prevent them in their comings for which they are both talented and ready and want to work. Let's give them such conditions as they have outside, so people will be here, and then we even complain to some, who, behold, pay taxes in some countries, why don't they pay them in Croatia, because they got training conditions there and work. I mentioned in the replica, my colleague Glavak, how politics affects our clubs, so in the manner of her boss Plenkovic, she twisted it in a completely different way, here, as the parliamentary representatives should train. Then I agree with my colleague Glavak, here's some training you suggest, I'll be happy to respond to that training, so here, we'll train if it takes all of us to prove that we're training. But the most proven in the World Cup, when our politicians, and I mentioned Mayor Žinić of my county, were at a series of matches where they were led by the Croatian Football Federation, did not bear the costs themselves. Is that a conflict of interest? Whether this mayor, Žinic, was raising to the county football alliance, with various benefits, so that he could be free at football matches around the world. It's a political influence and no one can say he's gone. It has it at all levels, which is a higher level, the larger the swamp is, and the greater the political influence, as well as all the pores and segments of this society where politics is involved and wants to manage everything and to conduct everything, although the people who conduct it are neither adequately educated, nor in that domain, have shown what results, but they want to interfere in everything. Here, if not, my colleague Lucic is here, let him say if I'm wrong. Which our politicians, in fact, helped our clubs to lead them somewhere. So the HNS had to expect some return benefit from them. But now it's not about the individuals I mention, it's about the whole system that's in this country. And how one of the strongest sports organizations such as the Croatian Football Federation works, where there is simply no insight into any financial business, and there is a lot of money turning around. But it all starts in municipalities, in cities, at the lowest level, in sex clubs, and we have many municipalities that have issued permits for halls, but they do not have these financial capacity to build them, and simply the state does not recognize the need of these halls and these exercises for our children at the lowest level, where they are essentially born of the greatest talents and are recognised, but is simply divided there by political likeness. Those who are in power, they will try to do this to their own, those who are opposition, ha wait... As the grass grows. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And who are we punishing? We punish our citizens. Dear gentlemen, no matter what political group we are, the foreigners are falling, the citizens of the Republic, no matter where they are members, all of them are our citizens of the Republic, there are too few of them, too many of them have gone from this country to behave, as if everyone has their own citizens, that everyone has their own children, that they are children, some of our party listeners or all of them are Croatian children and they will... Today, the cheek of the Republic of Croatia as our athletes do today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But unfortunately, not thanks to the Republic of Croatia, but to the engagement of their parents and their work, sacrificed and later being given the opportunity somewhere outside the Republic of Croatia, to show their talent and to illuminate the face of the Republic of Croatia with their work. Let's try to look at it that way, let's not outsmart around, we've done more, you've done less, these have encouraged this and that, but all of this is simply seen in the people, sit down with the people, and talk to them, and you'll see what they'll say to you on coffee, these people who are in some clubs, how they run the clubs. It's a nightmare, providing money to run a small football club, to organize a game, to cut the playground, there'll be fewer volunteers who want to do it because simply people are more overloaded by this bad system that rules the whole country, and especially in sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127566	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127567	Dear colleague Lenart, you would have the impression that only those who leave Croatia succeed and mentioned one rare example of Jacob Faka, I will mention to you the example of Nikita Glasnović, who comes from rich Sweden who decided to make a Croatian taequindo team, I will mention to you Ivan Raketić, who was born in Rheinfelden in Switzerland and decided to join the Croatian football team, so it is not exactly what you say. My colleague Stazic mentioned hockey on the ice that I am following and he rightly mentioned it and there is a question of a cheerleading culture, some of the creation of a positive atmosphere, on the other hand the biggest hooliganism is on football games and it should be worked on. I think the basic problem is the Sport Financing Act. You here used a cheap political dictionary for day-to-day policy purposes so it would only turn out where some option in power there succeeds preferably in HDZ, where athletes succeed. And where there's another option, they're gone from there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Which is completely untrue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127568	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127569	Dear colleague for you from HDZ all the cheap political dictionaries, I'm trying to serve cheap i.e. In simple words that the people understand, I don't want to count this assembly. So Raketic decided to play for the Croatian team because the Croatian, right, that's normal, but where he is training, where he trains, in Croatia, whether he became Raketic in Croatia, where Modric became Modric, was a good football player, great and in Croatia, but the real Modric became when he went out to play. There he got the right conditions and everything, all the glory he had collected, the man went to all the trouble and worked, but he did the most out there. That's where he showed his talent and they recognized him, but he built the real Blue outside, and so did the others. You don't understand what I'm talking about, I'm saying that everyone in this country should have the same chance, I'm talking about it, not politically similar or inappropriate. You know very well that today You can become a top football player if someone pushes you, if you don't want to. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127570	The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm confused with your debate, I must admit, so we're back at football again, we're back on those top 10 or 15 great football players of ours again and we're back on the Croatian Football Federation. A colleague of yours has ever heard of Philip Udjay or Tina Srpić, do you know how these guys train, do you know what conditions they worked and stayed in Croatia and became world champions of silver at the Olympic Games, so what you're talking about, you're actually asking our top athletes to leave Croatia, not to pay taxes here, pay him where they're good and some of them there. I don't understand what you want? Equal chances for everyone, yes, from the education system, from those small sports, from those children who never want to have millions or their parents have such aspirations. They want to play sports for their health. For socializing and other noble things. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127572	Thank you, the answer of Honorable Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127573	Thank you, dear colleague Glavak, for being confused I can't help you here, but over football it's the easiest to explain functioning in Croatian sport, thank God there are some who stayed and wanted to train in Croatia and achieve top results, but I'm not asking our football players to go out, they're gone, so they're gone, and that's the market, yeah, that's the market, for you it's all market and liberal capitalism, right. Well, I think it's not that it's not that many of them went because they got a normal opportunity, but we have to admit that they didn't leave, that they didn't get the kind of conditions they had there that they'd never be who they are. And you're aware of that, too, and you just don't want to admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127574	The next replica of the respected representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127575	So, you rightly warn with the danger of political and sports ties and companies that there is no such connection, forgive me, it is incomprehensible especially when it comes to HDZ. Well, the first president of HDZ changed and determined the names of sports clubs, not to be called Dinamo, and he was the honorary president of Partizana, a colleague of Glavak, did not mind being called Partizan at the time. The presence of politicians at sports events can, let them pay them from their money, let them pay them from their money, not to pay them sports clubs because they are not there on the stands there to represent Croatia, Croatia is represented by athletes, and not them, they come to paint there, they come to enjoy it, and that.../incomprehensible/... these clubs. What about the sports store? Well, isn't that a policy that needs to be solved? And as if no one knew, they were traded like horses. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127576	Thank you very much, the answer is actually not an answer because nothing is directed, but it will say something certain to my colleague Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127577	I thank the esteemed Vice President, so here's a colleague of mine you've noticed and you've figured out what I've been talking about, about this inequality that rules in our sport. Here's an example, a football club in the village of Bobovac in Posavina, some would say to God behind the legs, where people have gone slowly, I ask you, did anyone ask these people how they keep that club, some will say so what, that one village such a club might not even have to play somewhere else, but we're talking about equality, how we're going to leave people to live in our rural areas, talk about rural restoration, rebuilding villages, and there people live and they want to have the same, similar conditions as in big cities. Try asking and asking around, for a small club like that, and you ask them how they organize, matches, judges, coaches, hair, where they get the money for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127578	Thank you. The next replica, the respected representative of Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127579	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenart, I didn't agree with your debate, you touched my name, and I can see that you have no information, and I'll tell you only one thing, my ticket to the World Cup, or the World Cup qualification was obtained from my own brother, not from the Croatian Football Federation, and that same card he could give to anyone else. So don't accuse yourself of anything you're not familiar with. On the other hand, for over 30 years I have participated in various activities in the work of the Croatian Football Federation, so I was not political. I also have to tell you, for over 35 years, I've been working at a club, a football club called Slavi, which is located in the 3rd HNL for many years, and I've been doing volunteer work without a kuna, in order to have any income. Many times I reached into my own pocket to settle the costs of the club itself, if you don't believe, ask your colleague who is sitting next to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127580	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127581	Dear fellow Lucic, maybe that's what you said. But when you're done in the media, I'm not going to say justifiably or unjustly now, you didn't deny it in this way, then you didn't want to deny it, no. You're not then, how would I know if you didn't deny it. So if you didn't deny it then, everyone thinks that's the case. You could have made 100 different excuses by now, like many others, but you weren't the only ones there. I have information that there were 19 people there that HNS is leading. So it's not exactly that they all got from relatives or something or something, for some I know 100% sure that the HNS is leading them. But it's not my fault that they led you, but I'm just talking about the fact that politics is involved in Croatian sport and that it's not good sport, it's bad, that politicians have to deal with politics, and athletes leave to play sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127582	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Loncher.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127583	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Lenart, as a longtime athlete and an employee, in sports, for 40 years, I can't accept what you're saying, from a series of factors that sport carries behind it. In sports there are so many elements and unknowns, it's hard now in this one minute to try to explain it all to you. As for politics and sports both in the former Yugoslavia and before the former Yugoslavia and as long as there are any countries, the state will always support sports through politics. And as for the unit of local self-government, I responsibly argue that the structure of the local self-government unit was not formed as it was formed, as many clubs as there are today in Croatia, believe me, there would be no 10%. That we are obliged to have football schools and other schools, it is our job and we must do so regardless of political or any other orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127584	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127585	Dear colleague, here you are now, in some way admitting it... politics in sport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sports is something where kids start doing it from the earliest age, so innocent whips go into a world of sports, trying to get some great results, to prove to be teams, to play on teams, and then when they get into a certain phase, then they meet up with the bad in sport, and that's politics. And you all know that what I'm saying, about that, maybe in some things I've made a mistake, I allow, but it's clear to all of you that politics has pushed too many tentacles into sport for only one reason, to win as many votes as possible in future elections through these clubs, various fire companies, associations, and in which way our political scene already works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127586	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127587	Thank you, Vice President. I wasn't really planning on calling, since the agenda theme was a decision to appoint the president and a member of the National Sports Council. But, like today... So the agenda, and then every occasion is used to talk about the broader subject, that was also at the previous points. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So then I will make my contribution to that, since I believe that as a person who has been in sports and almost professionally and lived part and worked professionally, he could contribute something to his debate and also to the final line and to the public, and also to the Deputy Secretary of State here. In fact, first of all, this syntagme policy and sport, unfortunately, politics has become an ugly word, when someone says politics and sport, it probably means the ugliest part that marks politics, although de facto, through sports policies it does not have. Not in that ugly part, but in that basic part, so, and not with us, it's like that everywhere. Why I say there is no, because, just as the company's task, in any of those arrangements has been, the task of the state unit of the local regional administration is to provide conditions, secure infrastructure, provide basic preconditions for the development and operation of sports workers, sports in general. Who are the people who decide, then the politicians, how did they come? And politics, so it turns out it's connected. Of course, all that part should be condemned, but I understand when some politicians want to bow down, so that the success of some athletes, little and all, let's say, rubs off, so that they also have something through the p.r. And I can understand that part of them. And then we actually come up with a question that today in Croatia a professional club can survive without a policy in this broad sense, i.e. without the role of local or state institutions and their budgets. Well, very little. But that's what we're talking about, professional sports. And our goal here as a politician, as a responsible person, is not to think about professional sports. We need to think about investing in the future of our children, in children, because it is known that the practice of any form of physical activity actually encourages the development of psychomotor, or psychophysical, improves health, means above all it affects physical development, the development of certain characteristics, skills, the adoption of certain motor skills, achievements but above all on the sense of oneness, children develop independence, make friendships, improve capable concentration, etc. So they can be satisfied through a series of different needs, for movement, for recognition, for safety, for belonging, in the end line, that's all sport does to our children. And then we have to sport and observe through several different structures. The first is infrastructure. These are the preconditions, there is again this policy to ensure the preconditions of our children, normal conditions for development and work. Most often we talk about infrastructure. So which club can finance his own gym to play in? Tell me who that is. Well, one Real Madrid sold its stadium to the city of Madrid. Which club in Croatia? I say that's rare. Sports is business, but only in rare cases. That is why our goal is to ensure this infrastructure because the result, the success that our children achieve sometimes, despite being in such infrastructure. She's not crucial but she's very important and all the elements matter. Individually, they may not be crucial because it proves our results, enthusiasm. But surely we could have more and better results if it worked better. In addition to infrastructure, so we talk about places where they can develop, it's important to invest in people, invest in coaches, in their knowledge, in their competences, because they often shape those children, they're usually the first ones children meet and most often play the greatest role. How many top athletes, we're not just going to name everyone here, maybe we wouldn't have become them if they didn't have a certain person at that crucial moment that she recognized, who saw them, who raised them, who believed and invested in them. Because not everyone is immediately God’s day to be seen from the plane, you can always see what one can become and not what it is today. Because when we look out of basketball, which I come from, you see a child that can be over 2 meters away but it's right now when you get it rolled up, you can't even run right and you have one child that's super motorized but its potential is obviously for that pre-condition that's basic to basketball and it's not the kind of thing that's going to happen. You have to watch what children can and everyone is just as important to play sports. That is why we should invest in coaches, enable their education, pedagogical education, not only professional but also pedagogical, it is much more important than this professional part. Investment in children, so we need to set up a system of financing sports, we had quality holders, so based on the quality bearers cities and municipalities, primarily cities assign certain funds. No, wrong, I'm not interested in this club's senior success, whether it's professional or not, it's not a basic prerequisite. The quality of work and the number of children is a prerequisite. Here we need to finance, as many children as possible, as much engagement as possible, the better work with them should be rewarded and conditions should be provided. Of course through sport there are also those negative sides, of course that one club when it's good to see that there's a lot of kids so it's... Everyone wants their own piece of cake so they get a term from the city, so they take membership fees and still get money, all of it needs to be order but the basics must be child, number, which in 3 months, 6 months of progress, growth, height of technical and motor skills, as it progressed, what resulted, whether it was coming to training, no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then our clubs through school would start to be very interesting and get as many kids as possible and do what's very important and that's popularizing sports to get them out of the screen. Not only is it popular what they see on TV and when it's some success why we have such good handball players, because we had 20 years ago a historic success. And then, of course, I come to a little football field, or handball, that someone's playing handball, and I'm freaking out. Where did that come from? Because they saw it on TV and then there were generations of Ballic and all of these. So then their successes resulted in a generation of new people interested in that sport. But it happens to us by accident. We need them systematically, to fight clubs for every child, to come to him, to have schools of sports in which all kinds of sports are systematically passing through to make children decide. That's what parents do for them now, they go, they drive them to one sport for three months, then six months to the next, then one year to three, so sometimes they hit, sometimes they don't, usually it leads to discouragement, give up and worse, we get a worse situation. How? So through, it's not just a matter of state, it's a matter of self-government units. You can, you just need to know how to want it. Of course defeat relief, tax treatment. That's where we're talking about that senior part and possibly professional athletes because not all seniors are professional athletes, you must know the same thing. A lot of our younger categories play for senior teams. And that's good and that's that distinction. But to make the best of it, as easy as possible, the greater tax burdens for investment in sports. And not that they're depending on us as politicians of individual clubs and godfathers as much as they're going to get from the city or not. They should not depend on any politician but only on the results of their number of children. Amen, over, gone, no matter who comes to power, mine or yours. As much as you're worth, as much as you work, as much as your kids recognize you, as much as you get, as much as you're popular, as much as you make out of your sport, you know how much you get. Of course it's not worth all the sports, to be clear right away, that someone doesn't catch me wrong. We have team sports, we have individual sports. We can't expect 100 weightlifters in a room. Everything needs to have its own categories and ways. And then we can talk about some systematic investment in sports. And of course the policy needs to be given a framework, this financial, legal, to enable investment, to give tax discharges, infrastructure, to build schools or halls, and all of this particular infrastructure that is needed, conditions for those of us who have already shown themselves to be insured, it is done, but certainly not all, all of the central offices that have now made an extraordinary shift now when we see in the way of thinking and experiencing and financing certain sports, and events and collectives themselves, but not enough. As long as we have locals in the way of that sofka, sports associations, or whatever, so they assign some appointments and now you start from one club four, so everyone gets a date, takes membership fees and lives out of it, that's a certain... It's just that those who live on it don't think about children and some result, but people live on it, they find their own brand and live as former players, coaches, live, but we need to do what's important for children. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127588	This debate is very interesting because sport, of course, is something that we are all interested in and I was very permissive, there was talk about everything, about funding sports, about policy and sport, about playing field, building halls, club partisans, etc. I remind you that we are now discussing a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the National Sports Council, so I ask you nicely to try to keep it in the further discussion. Here, we have more replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127589	Thank you, Vice President. You say a fellow without a sport policy there's no, just the opposite, where politics is, there's no sport there, I'll give you two examples of that. First, why is there only this primitive savagery in football stadiums? Because the HNS, the Croatian Football Federation, is the politics, it is the exposure of HDZ. For example, on September 14th, President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic visited the school, asking students what you need, they say, the school hall president. School hall? So you have a meadow. This is the policy attitude towards the sport, so there the president surpassed even that intelligent statement by Maria Antonete. You don't have bread, folks? So eat your cookies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127590	Thank you very much. Something will obviously be said by a colleague named Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127591	Thank you. So, I've been trying to explain... I'll try it again. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with you chairing that, and I said this intro that we're a little off this topic a little bit. So, politics in this sense are all, all units of local self-government, the Central State Office for Sports, County, Ministry, Ministry, etc., all of them must and should help sport and that is the link between politics and sports. What you're talking about, that's what I said, that's the ugly part of the policy where everyone wants, when something is good, attached, but definitely, we can't lose this, that link can't sport itself as such being left to themselves, because there won't be it, there's no sponsors, there's no interest, there's no business that can finance everything we're doing, and that's why there's a smart system to make it independent, that sport is independent of politics. Not that it has anything to do with it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127592	The next replica of the respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127593	Thank you very much. Comrade Curaj, I was encouraged by your debate just to comment and say, they're not the people who came in today's sports exclusively from politics. I was just talking about my example, 30 years ago, I didn't think about politics, and I found myself just doing the work that I took care of in my place, so today I suggest that just about all the people who care in their place take care of their football clubs that aren't professional, that they are now members of the Sports Council. These people who have been recognized through their work in the lower environments, where you have to invent and the means and conditions to compete in one rank, and today they are exclusively enlisted in people who are currently in the football alliance or at the top of the football alliance in Croatia, and these are the people who have passed their clubs that have proven themselves there, who have recognized and thus are It's theirs and the Football Federation invited them. [[Intruder: Thank you]] to work in the same alliance. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127594	The next replica of the esteemed Velligay representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127595	Thank you, Vice President. Here, fellow Curaj I will agree with you of course that units of local self-government should take care of sports infrastructure primarily because without it we don't actually have amateur sports. But that infrastructure depends on you in the highest part, however, on the fiscal strength of the local self-government unit. So, surely some priority will be given to local self-government units in investing in municipal infrastructure, pre-school education, schooling, etc., but my own recommendation is then in the sports and sports unions office, so it's giving some funding, now there's a competition to build a sports infrastructure to take into account the fiscal capacity of local self-government units, so let's assign these funds to really those who need it most, and those who have more resources, I think they can do it out of their budgets, I think there are models that can be implemented for the construction of sports fields and one we work in the city of Pregrad, we decided to go to the construction of tennis courts, we do... the campaign, we have a very good response and a business community and [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And... [[Intruder: Thank you]] So the plan is at least 50% of the amount... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127596	The next is a replica of the respected representative, the response of the respected representative Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127597	I'd like to thank my colleague, Vesligai. So, yes, certainly not all fiscal capacities are equal, so we have other models. Here, we from Osijek, we now have two big sports projects, one is building a football stadium, the other is one of the big tennis courts, about 60 million kuna predicted value of investment, all by model, let's not say, public private partnership is it extremely complicated and very few projects are actually done, but it certainly has the right to build and certain types of concessions the possibility to combine private interest and public well-being. And that's maybe that model of course there can be included then, where we certainly have to have one, there's no physicality in sports, that we all need to know, there's no physicality in culture either, it's a pure cost-benefit analysis. Whether it allows better lives for fellow citizens and then everyone will want to come more lives, through which we can through their taxes be financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127598	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127599	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Curaj, well Vice President of the Parliament said, this is the topic, the selection of members of the National Council, I expected you to say in your debate that you are looking for, conditioned by your support in this proposal to elect members of the National Council that they allocate more funds to amateur sports, precisely what you were saying, that in rural areas more isolating themselves for amateur sports, football, volleyball, basketball, rowing, any other, athletic or gymnastics, unfortunately, you didn't say that, and I think that because you're part of that majority, you should have said that. And what is the situation in amateur sports is best spoken in Osijek County, Brodo-Posavina, in football, where there are a large number of football clubs, third and other county leagues giving up because there are too many impositions for delegates, judges, etc., they simply can't follow it anymore, especially since these same football judges, delegates determine the height of these fees and on the other hand, selling games for 10 or 100 kn, or 200 kn, against them 20 is the trial process and what is the message to football in sport, as well as when you all changed the uniform, which is a message to our Croatian voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127600	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127601	Okay, now, in the end, really, I'm in the same uniform all the time, so if I changed my partner, it doesn't mean I changed my uniform or I didn't even change them myself. First of all, thank God I'm not doing it, I'm not doing it because I'm never going to use blackmail, I don't believe anything good can come from blackmail, but from cooperation, agreement, conversation, project cooperation, whatever you want to call it, and not now go, go and blackmail for something that's going. Until then, it has its limits, maybe you're so used to it, I'm so sure I won't talk to or talk to a number of partners I've treated and participated in both the government and in Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County and... It is about the current guest and to the HDSSB of the former HSP, HDZ, too, no matter who it is if it is about good interest and if we all want to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will absolutely continue to try to propose my initiatives and I hope that there will also be hearing that they accept to the extent to which they can be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127602	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127603	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Curaj, you've actually touched yourself and talked a lot about infrastructure and equal terms. The fact is that all sports facilities are, in fact, public needs of municipalities, cities and counties and that many such facilities do not have and in the national sport programme which is in the public debate it is said that 10 counties do not have an athletic trail at all, so only the athletic trail. If we talk about 10 of such sports for children and youth, then more or less in all of these counties are disabled in their sports advancement and development and children in themselves on such infrastructure facilities are socialised, socially more acceptable, develop their motor skills and, of course, some of them become polite if not top football players.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127604	Thank you. Dear Representative Curaj [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127605	Thank you. Yeah, I'm first of all, it's no accident that I started the infrastructure first as a contitio son qua non so it's that basic prerequisite that we make that basic condition that someone can deal with a particular sport that they actually have where that sport and work, train and be. If you don't have an athletic track, you can hardly train on the street, achieve certain results or speak if you don't have a basketball court or a basket, you'll find it hard to learn to ever play basketball, so it's this little banalizing but that's why it's the first prerequisite, that's why it's the basis, so it's a policy task to ensure everyone equal opportunities, for equal development, equal participation, and to recognize it, to put it as their priorities. For all the reasons I have cited what sport means for our children, also when we talk about education, we can pull the parallel to have equal conditions whether you are in a village from Slavonia or in the centre of Zagreb, that these children have equal conditions and equal infrastructure for work and their advancement in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127606	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127607	Comrade Curaj, let's face it, everyone will never have equal availability, of course we should work on the development of infrastructure. The draft Central State Sport Office and the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for 2017-2019 also states how important the missing strategies are. But everyone emphasizes amateur sports. Of course, the role of the state office and the promotion of day-to-day physical activities for children is a question of promoting sports in terms of promoting health but also of taking care of top sports and there are also competitions to make provisions transparently that clubs bear top quality and that they are also funded. So there is no need to ignore that fact and then certain units of local self-government depending on the tradition of, say, Metković, Nasice, Bjelovar, there should develop handball, in Sinj basketball, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127608	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127609	Yes, my colleague Celic, I have also listed through these very segments of infrastructure, investment in people, coaches, children and seniors, or professional sport. And it doesn't need to be ignored, we know that this funding goes through alliances, alliances are funded through HOO, the Olympic Committee gets funds from the budget, etc., funds and gambling, and of course through various competitions, and that we absolutely don't ignore it but we need to think and look at the whole picture that as much as you said of course they won't all have the same conditions, I'm aware of that, but wherever they can and should, wherever there's interest and needs, there should be action. And it certainly does so through a system that works independently of politics, which works according to its legality and strictly established standards, quantified and these are the number of children, number of interests, number of work, progress in work, and then absolutely no matter who is in power where, the only thing that matters is how you do your job and then the children will be able to reach this part of professional sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127610	The final debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127611	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to make a brief argument about this election and, of course, Vice President, allow me to extend this debate a little, as other colleagues have done, I won't, I won't debate for long, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127612	Just don't say the impact of eating creamy on sport, because we've talked about everything except that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127613	I will not, therefore, what they all are. premixed [[Intruder: This is not good.]] Yes, as everyone has agreed before that sports is very important, we are talking about amateur sports, the availability of sports, and even here, here is my colleague, Ćorić, who can replicate, so I will now mention, I disagree with him, quite the opposite of him, we have a lot of talent in rural areas in the settlements, only children should be allowed access to sports. [[Intruder: Too much sugar.]] If we do it then we'll see that we have a lot more talented children than we think. Therefore, in certain cities we should not develop certain sports, we should allow everyone to be available, so there will be better results. Unfortunately it is about money and opportunities, so to create material conditions for sport to be available, and other than these conditions it comes to a different level of conditions are trainers, it was said by fellow Curaj, to allow for quality preparation of young people for sport. Then the third, third level is a competition organization, you can have a club, if you don't have kids where the competition is going to be all missed. And, of course, the unit of local self-government that needs to finance it, because, in this case, when we talk about professional persons, when we talk about official pardons to people, judges and most of the local self-government units, they are the ones that have to pay for it, and the clubs need to be able to do so. But I want to make one thing concrete right now, namely what we have to fight for in society, what we have to fight for is discrimination. We in sport at this point have great discrimination, it is precisely seen from this proposal, of 13 members of the National Council, as many as we have women, only two, the truth that the president is one of them, so of two it is over, it is about 15% of women in such a professional body that cares about the quality and development of sport. Otherwise, representation in.../incomprehensible bodies when we talk in general about sports and professional bodies and professional functions is less than 20%. The International Olympic Committee recommends this as a kind of minimum. Media representation, women's media performance is incomparably lower than men's results, and higher media representation is often more related to the appearance of athletes. I'll read you a letter from a young person who wrote to HRT: “Honesty, today at 17.40 you pass on men's matchbox finals, women's finals of the same tournament you don't pass on, to the inquiry about last year, the answer was that television was supposed to buy what viewers wanted to watch. I guess that's why this is a very watched show Secret Life of the Zoo, but how to expect the popularity of women's football and.../incomprehensible/... if they're not given the opportunity in the beginning." So, female sport is discriminated against, HRT doesn't want to transfer here in this case the matchbox finale and I think the National Sports Council will have there to change these things. Professional athletes find it offensive that women's sport is justifiably not paid as a man's sport. Novak Djokovic said the following, statistics are convincing on the side of tennis players, we have more audiences and that is one of the reasons why we should make more money, it would be the most honest, that those who contribute the most also earn the most. The tennis players fought for what they have today, but men should fight even more. Of course, tennis player King fought long ago for tennis players to have the same reward fund as tennis players and it's just in tennis. In all other sports, women are well underpaid, women are in a subordinate position and no attention is paid to that sport. Here, Secretary of State, do you from your position and here you are through the National Sports Council to make a woman popular and not to let this sort of thing happen in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127614	Thank you, we have for your presentation of two replicas, he is the first respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127615	A colleague, Žagar, has no money for all, so when I talked about certain units of local self-government, cities where there is a tradition of sport, so Sisak has ice hockey, no ice sheets, and in Zagreb, Hungary has done research, determined which are 5 sports that are of national interest, changed the law on financing sports and began to develop infrastructure. After that came results for both water polo and handball and ice hockey, so that's just it. And that's why the role of the State Sport Office is, let's not expect something to happen overnight, but developing strategies is what the role of the National Sports Office is, and therefore, the National Sports Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127616	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127617	So, very short colleague Celić, so here in the last part, you actually gave the right direction, the strategy to define what we want to do with Croatian sport, here in Slatina we don't have a congratulatory sports hall, one sports hall doing the roof, so when the roof is down, the propo is floor, we have a series of problems, and the young, there are clubs, there are significant results without where to train and therefore we have to have that strategy in order to enable everyone who wants and who can engage in sports in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127618	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127619	Thanks, here's my colleague, Žagar, I'm glad that you've looked back at women's sport and sport is really one of the social activities that is needed, the need for everything, and I'm going to say, it's about the subject, let this national council have one of the priorities of building a strategy that will go towards giving one due attention to women's sport, to make one pressure on sports alliances, especially on the richest sports alliance, which is the Croatian Football Federation, to give one due attention to women's football because unfortunately it's on its margins, I know it well because here I come from a city that has 20 years of female football champions and we' trouble of course with finances, it wouldn't be possible without the support of the local self-government unit, I'm aware of it, but it's all the long travels, it's a great cost that they require, so at least in this direction that some kind of support, because it's the only sports club in such a small environment where I can actually get a sport. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127620	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127621	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Vedligaj, therefore, I know that there is a women's football club in your town, what is extremely important to do, and when we talk about especially women's sports, women's football clubs, in my county in Čajjavica municipality was a football club of women's, and what happened? They even entered the 1st Croatian Football League and you know what the problem is. Then your bus costs, to a football game, are higher than the practically budget they have per year for their work. In this direction, the state must think, to enable, and these are successful athletes, up to 16 girls can play football with boys, after which they can no longer, they are successful athletes, who achieve significant results and therefore the National Sports Council, and the country as a whole should care more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127622	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Deputy State Secretary, Central State Sport Office, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127623	I will take this opportunity to try, also to answer all the questions and dilemmas asked. .../Intruder Reiner: Please, we are talking about a proposal for a decision... /... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the National Sports Council is the most professional and advisory body appointed by the Croatian Parliament for 8 years at this time from 18.1 to 18.2 in the debate is the first planning act that has been adopted by the SDUŠ, i.e. the Central State Sport Office, i.e. the Working Group. The working group is also a member of the current National Sports Council. So, this National Sports Council will have a historic role to play to give, for the first time in accordance with the Law on Sports, opinions on this development act of planning this country. Also, at this point and in the national development strategy for 2030, sport is predicted as a separate goal that no one has done so far. When we talk about funding, there is already a representative Glavak with some data, so by more than 100 million kuna, so by more than 30% the budget has increased since 2016 to 2019 if we go back a little in history in 2013 then we will see that it is more than 100%. Also, most of the proposals on sport financing, based on a detailed analysis, developed by the university professor, who will be a member of the National Sports Council, discusses the problems of local sport, where it is clear that the towns are smaller, this is a bigger problem with funding, the smaller percentage of the isolation, the county, is particularly little isolated, and that is why the first objective of this strategy is to further increase investment, align investment, with comparable EU countries compared to GDP and the state budget. It speaks of what is important about the criteria and for the first time foresees the assistance of the central state, which we are already doing through the competition to encourage local sport, through investment in infrastructure, as it stands in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for the term of office of '16-20. and everything will be detailedly arranged for a new national strategy. I will also point out, and already said, that all, but all the national alliances, which have more than 80 round tables and all sports communities, have had the opportunity to present their proposals and to present the problems that this strategy is wasting, and now, while consulting with the interested public, 12 round tables are foreseen, 6 of which are already done with sports communities with all alliances, and the answer to the question of the Opatija initiative is the following, this draft national sport programme, foresees sports of national interest, foresees categorisation of sports and investment in the development of sports, based on clear, unequivocal criteria, therefore, on the mass and results and other relevant criteria to which some other working groups will again be drawn up by the Law on sport and sublaws which will address these criteria. Also, at this point 62% of the inactive population, which is why this subtitle, the strategy, according to a healthy and active nation, is proud of sports success, we want to reconcile one paradox, which is that we are the top of the world, so we have won 10 Olympic medals, there are 3 countries of the world, by the number of medals per population, but unfortunately, at this point we are at the bottom of Europe by the physical activity of the general population. That's why, the whole specific goal, talks about it, talks about universal sports schools, talks about central government investments to help sports communities, in those units of local and regional self-government that are the most underdeveloped just to make sport as accessible as possible to every child in the Republic. He would also particularly highlight sports buildings, so for the first time, the central state is helping the local state through the central budget, and based on the network of sports buildings, which will come from the national information system, which is in the final stage of production, which has seven registers, of which is 1 register of sports infrastructure, to finally know how many, in which unit of local, regional, in which part of the Republic of Croatia we have which building, somewhere we may have enough, we do not have enough. I will look back at these 10 medals, all the athletes who won those 10 medals, at the last Olympic Games trained and worked with Croatian coaches, who were paid by the Republic of Croatia through the budget of the Central State Sport Office, i.e. through the programmes of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which in 2019 amounted to 151 million kn. Also, all athletes who work and operate through the Paralympic Committee or the sports alliance of the deaf as 2 out of 5 roof sports organisations in the Republic of Croatia are financed through the budget. Women's sport is also recognized for one purpose of this national sport programme. The composition, therefore, in this composition of the National Sports Council are medal winners, there are people who won medals at the Olympic Games, and even now, for example. in Perica Bukić, they run the most successful alliance by the number of medals in this country. Also included are university professors, there is a lawyer, sports law expert, company law expert, current chairman of the commission for professional and sports clubs, and also, the president of the working body for the development of the strategy was Dr Sandra Čorak, who is the vice president of the Croatian Olympic Committee and president of the Judo Federation, a colleague from Rijeka who was mentioned as president of the working group on the draft law on sport and member of the working group for the National Sport Council. So I think this shows that this National Sports Council has a wide range of sports. Of course those larger sports have more members but they have fewer but let us not forget that there are more than 80 alliances in the Republic of Croatia for more than 100 hundred Olympics, which are neo-Olympic sports and of course 6+1 persons proposed for the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot be represented by all sports. But all roof organisations whose national sports alliances are said to be represented under the Law on Sport in the National Sports Council so that all these organisations through their representatives have the opportunity to propose the measures proposed by the National Sports Council to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127624	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127625	Thank you very much. Not all questions have been answered by the Deputy Secretary of State, but there will be opportunities to discuss the National Sports Development Strategy. I expected you to at least thank the members so far so I will do so for you and mention them by name who has been a member for the past 4 years, President Predrag Slobodana and members Nikola Pilić, Dubravko Šimenc, Gordan Kozulj, Kaja Iles, Haris Pavletić, Željko Jerkov whom we have chosen in the Parliament and representatives of the Olympic Committee, Paralympic and Kinesiological Faculty, Zlatko Mateša, Morana Paliković Gruden, Danira Bilić, Dragan Milanović, Ratko Kovačić and Dani Lušić. You can see from the list that all regions are evenly represented, so I continue to disagree because the Rijeka region has not found its place in the National Sports Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127626	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127627	Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Sports Council. The proposal is from the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The debate is closed. Based on an article. 4th century 2. The law on sport, and in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I am voting on the next conclusion. Before making a decision on the appointment of the President and members of the National Sports Council, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports will carry out the scribbling to determine which six members of the National Sports Council will be appointed for a two-year term, and which six members will be appointed for a term of office of four years, please vote. I find that most of the votes 83 FOR, 19 abstentions, have concluded that it was proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and members of the National Sports Council. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on sport, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports has carried out the drawing of candidates and proposes to the Croatian Parliament a full decision on which we will now vote. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and members of the National Sports Council. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 82 for, 26 abstentions, 1 vote against a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the National Sports Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127629	We move to the next point is: - Proposal for a decision on the appointment and termination of the term of office of a member of the National Health Council. The proposer shall be the Minister of Health on the basis of Article 115 of the Health Protection article. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Health Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127630	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs in the Parliament, I welcome you all very much. As you know, the National Health Council is a body composed of top experts who play a very important role in thinking, creating, suggesting health policy and all that is happening around health care. Before I propose a new composition, I would like to thank the members who have been part of the National Health Council so far with the belief that the new people you choose will be equally successful or perhaps in some segments some other things. So, I suggest we choose the next composition that is normally of nine people, that's Professor Dr. Darko Hudi, Professor Dr. Dragan Ljudić, Prof. Dr. Marica Medić Sarić, Prof. Dr. Jasminka Milas Ahic, Prof. Dr. Rajko Ostojić, primarius Dr. Željko Plazonić, Prof. Dr. Katica Sprayo, academician Zeljko Reiner and academicist Mirna Šitum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127631	Thank you very much. Unfortunately...... They look at others for that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127632	Dear Mr. Minister, in your explanation, you did not explain a little more like the criteria by which you appointed this National Council where I do not dispute any name, however, it is about top experts who can certainly contribute to your work as minister because it certainly needs a lot of advice. However, since the function of the National Health Council is, among other things, covering all areas of health care, it is clear that you have ignored almost 80% of the health problems covered by individual healthcare professionals, so I wonder what you were doing when you appointed this composition and why there is no one here in the field of prevention, family medicine, public health, sisterhood. So this is one composition that does not guarantee the performance of the role that the National Health Council should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127633	The reply of the respected health minister Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127634	I thank you for your reflection, it's impossible to cover all segments, so if we went to cover all segments, then that board should make up 30 or more people. These are top experts in their field of expertise and science. And you know that the council is working on a model of consultants, i.e. gathering consultants, so that for each area where they will eventually open, experts from that area are called upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127635	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127636	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I hope that this point will not have a broad debate on Croatian health as the previous point had. So the National Health Council knows that there are nine members appointed by the Minister of Health at a time of four years. Old composition expired On a proposal from the Minister of Health, okay. [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow cellic, proposed by the health minister, we call him.]] So, here is a colleague, Jovanovic, mentioned on the Health Committee, so there must be criticism and the question is how big this would take if there was a representation from all segments. However, in Art. The 146th Regulation of the Health Protection Act of the National Health Council states that this may be requested by the National Health Council by other experts from individual medical professions whose opinion is needed to address a particular issue. The National Health Council is elected to monitor all areas of health care, giving and proposing expert opinions in the field of planning, programming, development and other important health issues which are important for the Republic of Croatia and what has been a lot of discussion in public media when it has been adopted and when it is included under the authority of the National Health Council, it is that the National Health Council gives opinions on gender change. I would also point out, therefore, that, on a proposal from the National Health Council, the Ministry of Health, with the previously obtained opinion of the Croatian Medical Society or other relevant companies, provides a solution setting out the Reference Centre and that National Health Council determines medical areas which, because of their importance for the Republic of Croatia, can be named the Reference Centre, the minister has already stated that these are proposals for members of the National Health Council, the HDZ Club will support this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127637	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127638	.../The speaker turned off/... colleagues and colleagues, therefore, as we heard from the National Health Council is an important body, as was the case before we talked about, here is what we said about, that the problem with the Sports Council is that it must have 40% of the persons of the sub-represented sex and that all of them are appointed from the ranks of prominent experts in certain medical professions to monitor all areas of health care, I stress this also because of the replica I already had, and the giving and proposing expert opinions from the field of planning, programming, development and other important health issues which are of importance to the Republic, as my colleague Celic said, the National Health Council is giving opinions on gender change. Therefore, I will repeat in this debate that, unfortunately, although the proposed candidates are indeed top experts in their field, the need to appoint a variety of compositions from certain areas of medicine is not respected. Especially, therefore, I am saddened to use that term, that the minister did not remember to put in place a representative of family medicine who is also a university professor and who could certainly contribute to his proposals in the work of this National Health Council. Also, I am surprised that, without having yet to dispute the quality of the candidates for this National Health Council, the National Health Council has proposed to its closest associate, so I do not see the need for the Secretary of State, otherwise my fellow citizen and denominator, a top expert to whom I do not dispute a single feature necessary for this council, to be a member of the National Health Council, when he is already a State Secretary, so he already has all the possibilities, all the tools needed to advise the Minister. That's why it was more logical that someone else from, say, Rijeka was proposed here, so that the regional quota was represented as well. Otherwise, here, the minister didn't specify who was a member so far, so I'll do it. So, so far, the members have been academic Paul Rudan from the Institute of Anthropology, Prof. Dr. Rajko Ostojić KBC Rebro, Prof. Vesna Šerić Sisters of Mercy, Prof. Dubravka Jurisic Erzen KBC Rijeka, Prof. Sven Kurbel KBC Osijek, Professor Darko Duplančić KBC Split, prof. dr. Ivan Curković Bagis Faculty of Stomatology Zagreb, Prof. Dunja Rogić University of Zagreb KBC Zagreb and what I particularly wish to highlight from the previous term of Mrs. Ana Ljubas, chief sister of KBC Zagreb Hospital for Heart Diseases and Blood vessels. So the quality of this composition was, therefore, that the sisterhood was represented, which I find very significant and I am sorry that this model is not respected in this composition of the National Health Council. Therefore, these are fundamental remarks which I consider significant and I am sorry that the minister did not respect our remarks regarding the Health Committee, so he may have corrected this list just for these reasons, therefore, not disputed in any way the professional quality of the National Health Council. The National Health Council, we heard, has really many roles, significant roles, and for this very reason, here, I hope that it will begin to work quickly because we have witnessed a number of problems in the health system, almost chaotic situations and ceasefires, so that this composition is waiting for a big job and I hope that it will make good use of all its skills in order to quality follow all areas of health care, give and propose expert opinions in the field of planning, programming, development and other important health issues that are of particular importance to the Republic. Here, I am giving them immediately and a few tips that are from our policy, SDP's policy, to heal the health system. So we think and repeat and ask the members of the National Council to make everything available to all citizens equally, to be a system that is financially self-sustainable, thus ensuring the reform of the health system and to prevent the continuation of the silent privatisation of healthcare that has been in part of the last years. Also, I hope that this National Health Council will also be against introducing additional payments to health services, ensuring equal prices for all, centralising procurement, integration at regional level, keeping jobs and better connection to activities, which will of course result in a better quality of services, and will provide a system of open doors and additional non-standard services in the afternoon and night shifts, so that our devices are made of maximum use. We therefore believe that it is necessary to create national centres of excellence as soon as possible for different areas of medicine in which all citizens will be able to obtain the highest quality and most sophisticated health care regardless of where they come from. In particular, I hope that the National Council will do everything possible to ensure that Croatia receives emergency helicopter medical services as soon as possible to ensure that all life-threatening people so-called. gold watch standard. In particular, I hope that members of the National Health Council will provide solutions to reduce waiting lists in a way that will make maximum use of all capacities in our health institutions. I believe it will also propose opportunities to increase personal deductions to all healthcare professionals in order to raise their salaries by 10% over one year. I suggest that they try to agree with the unions to increase the pay base by 4% over the next few years, to introduce a fairer way of evaluating and rewarding all health workers. I believe that given their role, they will ensure a more rational management of the health system and a fiscally sustainable system. Also, although I do not see that there is someone in the National Health Council who is particularly involved in health tourism that will do everything to ensure additional revenues for our health system through the provision of health services in health care and tourism. I also hope that the registers will finally work and ensure that the outcome of the treatment is monitored so that people in Croatia can live longer and better. Therefore, the Croatian health system has not so far collapsed solely and thanks exclusively to the enthusiasm and efforts of more than 70,000 doctors and nurses and technicians who unfortunately are not represented in this National Health Council who, despite everything, are doing their job, and the key problem of Croatian health care is that in the focus of health policies, it has stopped being human. We here in the assembly need to pass laws, measures, and regulations according to man and man. I therefore hope that the National Health Council will ensure that waiting lists are shorter, that no fires are put out, and that the media do not have to launch actions to address the health problems of the people of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127639	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127640	Proposal for a decision on the appointment and termination of the term of office of members of the National Health Council. The promoter is the Minister of Health. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the appointment and termination of the term of office of members of the National Health Council, please vote. I find that the majority of votes of 76 ZA, 22 abstentions and 2 votes against have been decided on the appointment and termination of the mandate of members of the National Health Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127641	And we move on to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, first reading, P.Z. Number 305. The SDP representative club is proposed under Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government has delivered an opinion whether or not the applicant's representative would like to give an additional explanation that, on behalf of the promoter of the respect for MP Marija Alfirev, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127642	Thank you, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, so here it is today, after a year as long as we have put this bill in the parliamentary procedure, here it is before this home, that we can and can propose it, and that it can be discussed, so let me also say what it is, but I really hope that as such it will get one broad support for all MPs because it is indeed a bill that is not lost, however, by a bill that can only be obtained and which, if adopted, could certainly contribute to one more, to the innovative policy and to facilitating families in the child care process. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Law on maternity and parental support must first and foremost be made to the Constitutional provision that the State particularly protects family, motherhood, children and youth. Accordingly, and everything that the state brings should go with different measures in the field and social, tax and economic policies, which should strengthen the family's care for children. At this point, despite all this, Croatia is markedly, faced with extremely unfavourable demographic movements. We already know and talk a lot about it, and even what has been invested so far or what has been done so far is obviously not enough, so every proposal, every measure, which would go in the direction of improvement should be well considered but then accepted no matter what side it comes from. The existing Law on maternity and parental support, which has been applied since 1 January 2009, protects motherhood, enables fathers to be involved in child rearing, protects parents through therefore, by harmonising family business obligations and providing support to the family. But we can see that this is obviously not enough, so what we are proposing is what these 4 key goals are proposed through these changes and complements to make it easier for parents to meet the parental family obligation in any way. The latest changes and additions made and which took effect on 1 July 2017 increased, the material rights of individual user groups increased, their status improved, which will certainly contribute to, or each and every contribution to social security, empowering the family, but we believe that further needs to be continued, that there should be some positive shifts, so here we will now propose these 4 measures that we believe could facilitate real care for, child care. So first of all, the adoption of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support would allow for the transfer of rights to a third party in the case of single-parent families, which are grandparents. That's quite necessary. It is, therefore, the self - picture of our society and says that more and more single - parent families are, and therefore, we need to take care of how to help such a family. The fact is that many grandparents simply help this parent in any way but with this measure, these changes and additions would also legally enable grandparents to use the rights that have so far been exclusively on the side of parents. Why is this necessary? It is necessary because in the case of parent families, we need to enable a parent who is alone in this case and the possibility to return to his job, to build a career if there is a possibility that a second, third person, whether a grandmother or a grandfather would jump in and actually what another parent would do in this case take over grandparents. So far, it's certainly in practice that in the case that grandparents are busy taking care of themselves in a way that, I don't know, I don't know, take a vacation or anything, but this law would really allow third parties what is possible in families with two parents, and we really think that this is a good, good proposal and there's no reason to accept it as such. Another measure is to strengthen the participation of fathers from the earliest stage of child development and to enable them to play an active role in caring for the child as well as to support the mother of the child. The introduction of these provisions really raises the world about the importance of the father’s role in early child rearing and highlights the positive aspects of their greater involvement for the child himself. Here is a gradual implementation of the only father's leave, firstly for 14 days during the mandatory maternity leave used by the mother while an additional 21 days of the father's leave should be considered in the long term. Thus, the father’s leave is offered 14 days of father’s protection for fathers who earn other income, farmer or unemployed also during maternity leave used by the mother up to 70 days from the day of birth. And, of course, fathers would have the right to cash compensation during the application of those rights. The next measure proposed by this law, amendments and additions is to enable the employer to use half the full-time until the 3rd year of a child’s life and in children, or families, whose child has no health problems. Currently, working with half the full time until the 3rd year of life allows parents whose child has health problems, but since many parents do not actually have the possibility or possibility to use some other institutional forms of care for the child at that earliest age or have the opportunity to work part-time in agreement with the employer, of course, it is expected to achieve one and consensus of the social partners. But in agreement with an employer who would accordingly be calculating, he pays the salary that a parent can work part - time until the 3rd year of life, a child’s life. And finally, the fourth measure proposed through this law means the right to a day off for prenatal examination of parents, means the second parent, not only pregnant, but also another parent, that the father we consider to be with the agreement, so that he can also be legally allowed, and not only in this situation, the father must take the day off on an annual basis, but that he is legally allowed to do so in agreement with the employer and according to the needs he can use this day off, which will certainly contribute and strengthen both the family and both parents' ties and as support for pregnant women in any case. Here we stay as a club here available for further questions, through debate. We expect really one broad support of this law, we expect first and foremost the support of the party Rada and Solidarity, there are our members or our member has been very actively involved in writing this law, and we really hope that all clubs in this House will support it, precisely because here is a particular club currently in place, so this law can be considered as a proposal, perhaps the whole of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127643	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127644	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected colleagues of Alfirev, the government was in this short time with this series of demographic measures, which took place through various Ministry of Demography, Construction and Others means resolving, subsidising interest on housing loans, devising maternity benefits, increased the most important addition, in the first 11 months. Compared to last year, about 400 and more children were born. Every measure is good and out of opposition, and I respect it and greet it. I'll tell you just two things about your proposal, and they're not both visible in this proposal, they didn't talk to, say, the Croatian Employers' Association, about employers, that's about this, parents and self-employed parents, right to work with half the full-time, so they didn't think about the employer. And the second part is about the prenatal examination that you were just talking about in the end. Also, an employer, should not actually suffer damage from the level of the legislative authority, this proposal should be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127645	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127646	Thank you, Vice President. We do not really dispute the good results of the application of any law, and in the proposal itself, we said that this law is going towards improving all those measures that are and it certainly allows for talks with employers and opening opportunities, therefore, and talks with employers, and leaves the possibility that each employer, in agreement or any worker in agreement with the employer, can make a decision that is good for both sides, but we believe that this would indeed be a good option and a good option for workers, legally supporting workers in this threshold.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127647	The next replica is the respected representative of Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127648	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Alfirev, on behalf of the promoter, when you delivered your views, I did not hear, although there is one in the written section, says that to implement this law, there will be no need to provide additional resources in the state budget. However, in the law to which we bind ourselves, it stands. 54. that the funds for the financing of the rights and support set out in this law are provided in the state budget. The article 54 you have not changed, which means all these numbered measures you propose would be by art. In 54th you have to secure in the state budget, and in your bill, you say it will not be provided, so I ask your explanation, where will these funds be provided from? And then why didn't you change the article? 54th if the funds will be provided from another source?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127649	The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127650	So this law does not have, therefore, yet, to see what will happen by implementing this law. However, the fact is that the measures proposed here will not affect us by increasing the significant increase of this detachment from the budget, they open up opportunities, and on how much would be used or how much of the impact on the budget should be seen in the implementation itself, beyond, the extent to which all measures would be used and how much they would increase the allocation from the budget itself. However, some measures do not have in this, most of these measures do not have an impact on the state budget itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127651	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Marija Pleikosa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127652	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The bill predicts that instead of a mother or father of a child, a parent’s family can have a child’s grandparents. We believe that it is important to determine that the child for whom it is first used, lives with the user of that right, precisely to fulfil the purpose of this right, or that there are other justified circumstances why a parent is unable to care for a child. In relation to the proposal to introduce a 14-day permanent leave of the father, which the father uses during the mandatory parental leave of the mother, the proposed period of 14 days is not justified or justified. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy actively participates in the process of drawing up a proposal for a new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the balance between the business and private life of parents and guardians under which the introduction of a single right to municipal leave as a new right at EU level is proposed. The adoption of the directive would require Croatia to introduce 10 days of paid leave for fathers, which the Republic of Croatia has and supported. Furthermore, the bill states that an employee or self-employed parent may use the right to work with half full-time until the age of 3 of the child’s life in agreement with the employer. It is not clear the functionality of the proposed provision, given that it is only an option. There are also a number of cases in practice where employers who, for objective business reasons, will not be able to comply with such a request, so the question arises as to what the worker can take further if the employer does not respect such a request. Compared to the proposed right to a day off, we are a month-long prenatal review as the right of both parents to think that the introduction of such a right would not achieve a prominent goal of proposing and that is to provide support for pregnant women and to get acquainted with the development of pregnancy. We believe that the proposed solution is not fully justified by respecting the possibility of agreement between parents and healthcare professionals on the term of prenatal examination. We are also of the opinion that the proposed solutions should be taken into account to introduce a completely new right and it is necessary to clarify the details of the conditions and the way in which these rights are exercised. It is not clear how willing employers are to accept social labour responsibility for participation in these processes. We believe that the issues in question should be previously consulted with those social partners that are affected by the proposed solutions. An incorrect recital is that the implementation of this law would not require additional funding in the state budget, as it is proposed to introduce new rights into the Croatian national system and compensation for new rights introduced would obviously be paid through the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. For the above reasons, compared to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127653	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Maria Pleikosa, for this explanation. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127654	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Birth and Parent Support proposes the SDP Representatives' Club as indicated for the following reasons. In order to avoid further negative trends in the demographic component, it is necessary to continue the implementation of already existing legal frameworks, any measure that can show a clear family impact and make a positive shift in the family and demographic picture of Croatia. We at the HDZ Club agree to protect family, motherhood, children, youth, create social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. And any measure that can in any way contribute to a positive shift should be considered and supported. The proposal for this law, as we heard in the Law on maternity and parental support, is to amend and add provisions to extend the circle of users to grandparents to help single-parent families, then to ensure the more active role of fathers in support of pregnant women through the right to a free day for prenatal examination and later, at the earliest stage of the development of a child through the right to the sole father's leave, which would be used for 14 days at the same time as the mother already uses the right to up to 70 days of maternity leave. Also more flexible use of the right to work with half full-time. The first extension of the circle of users to grandparents is not necessary, it is only important to determine that the child for whom the case is legally used is alive with the user of that right. So even now, according to applicable laws, if a parent is unable to care for a child when grandparents become guardians, that is, when parents are deprived of parental rights or when no parents have the right to use that compensation. Furthermore, the father’s leave is proposed for 14 days of spare and for a father who realizes that the second income of a farmer or an unemployed person also stands during maternity leave used by his mother up to 70 days from the day of birth. Now that the unemployed father is mentioned, then I think the promoter puts the accent not in the time to be, which would be desirable for the father to spend with his child and wife because he is unemployed, so he can spend the time already already to put the accent exactly to be paid. Although it is said that it is a matter of saving the work of unemployed fathers such a pity should not be done. As the proposal for a law states, it is not necessary to secure funds in the state budget and fathers' savings should be paid clearly that the applicant considers that this should be provided by the employer. The same with the proposal to use the right to work with half full-time until the third year of child's life, for a child without health problems in agreement with the employer, as well as for the right to a day off for prenatal review as the right of both parents, and that time the parent should exercise the right to both personal income and to pay the corresponding contributions if, as the proposer states, there is no need to provide funding in the state budget and that would be the burden of the employer. These proposed provisions alone and would only burden employers by asking them to take part in the responsibility for this area. It is not clear here whether or not they have spoken to employers and whether they are willing to accept social labour responsibility for participation in these processes and how many individual solutions will affect the burden of the social partners. I'm afraid if a law like this were passed, they'd just expand the circle of those who would have and get the opportunity to get more intimate questions when they were hired, and maybe this is the way around young people who just need to form a family. When it comes to working with half the working time until the age of three, it says that this right can be used in agreement with the employer. The question arises what if the employer does not respect such a request, if it stands to be possible and not necessary, then what? Furthermore, the right to work with half full-time until the third year of child's life whose child needs enhanced care is now allowed by law. This law would even those rights. I believe that you too will agree that those children with health problems deserve even greater and stronger care. Thus, when we equate them with these parents who have children with developmental difficulties, it would be appropriate to provide this with another enhanced and stronger concern. Any measure to achieve the expected result should be preceded by a detailed analysis and an ex ante impact assessment, and adequate budgetary resources should be provided for it, which is not the case with this law. And like I said in the replica, in Art. The 54th basic law, which does not amend the amendments, states that the funds for the financing of the right and support set out in this law are provided in the national budget except for the date of the prenatal review, and then, if the opinions do not need to be provided in the state budget, it was also necessary to intervene on this article of the law. Otherwise, to remember, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support was adopted in June 2017. A number of newspapers and greater rights were adopted and adopted, both for the employed parents and for the other six months of leave, higher benefits for the unemployed parents, as well as higher fees for the third and each subsequent child. We also have better rights for parents of a child with developmental disorders. This government, to remind you, has proposed and brought in a number of demographic measures from other resors, so we have an untaxable share of the baby's prize, the employer can now pay up to £10.00 compared to earlier when the maximum was €3362.00, reduced VAT to food and diapers. Demographic measures are even in a pension reform where all mothers, when they meet the conditions for retirement, add 6 months to each child born or adopted, to a truly completed internship, increasing their pensions by about 2% per child. This right can also be exercised by a father if he has used the bulk of additional maternity leave for more than two months. We also have reconstruction and construction projects, kindergarten equipment designed to improve the quality of life, family and child care, so over the past two years, billions and 700 million kunas from the rural development programme have been invested, the minimum wage has been increased by 9%, which is not, we haven't had since 2008, the net minimum wage has increased by more than 20%, which wasn't in full space from 2008 to 2016, contracts for financing 170 kindergartens in small areas etc. I believe that these measures contributed to the fact that according to the first figures, now we can only talk about the first 6 months of 2018, 820 children were born more than in the same period of the previous year. We at the HDZ Club are convinced that such proposed amendments to the Law on maternity and parental support, as proposed by the SDP Club, will not make a small move in the family demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia, so the HDZ Club will not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127655	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev Martinchev. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, no. If he wants a representative, no, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Maria Pleikosi, on the basis of the government's opinion. I also thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev, for explaining the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues with this have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. Just one note for tomorrow, at 11.30 p.m. as announced, we will report on the amendments, and then at 12:00 we will vote on the health points of the agenda. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 in the morning with the proposal, with the item on the agenda of the proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan for the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis for the EU for 2019. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. SESSION Interrupted at 16:12 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-07-0.u127656	And last vote today, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, first reading, P.Z. No. 305, the promoter is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the debate is closed. I am voting on the next conclusion of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support not accepted by the Government as well as by the parliamentary working bodies, please vote. The conclusion did not receive the required number of votes, was not made, there were 29 votes, 6 abstentions and 68 against. This brings us to the end of the vote, we still have a free speech, I announce that we start on Wednesday 13 February and you will be presented with a plan of work and debate at the Croatian Parliament for next week according to the usual practice. Thank you very much.
