ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179243	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Juvenile Courts is proposed to amend and supplement the Law on Juvenile Courts. The reason why the harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis is based on the transposition and implementation of Directive 800/2016 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 in procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused of criminal proceedings. Although the juvenile criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia is already largely in line with the provisions of the directive, it was necessary to further strengthen the procedural position of minors and indictees in criminal proceedings by introducing new procedural guarantees. In relation to the text of the draft law adopted in the first reading by HS, the final draft of the law made certain differences in relation to the right of delivery or the provision of lessons on the rights of minors and the right to escort minors, as well as the authorisation to require the medical examination of the arrested minor prescribed for another relevant adult because which the right is now extended and to a special custodian assigned to the minor. It is also prescribed that the educational measure of reference to a educational institution which the court will impose when it is necessary to separate a minor from the environment in which he lives may also be carried out in the case of a foster parent who carries out specialised foster care for children under special rules in accordance with their individual programme of conduct. Further, the harmonisation of the provisions of the Law on Juvenile Courts with the provisions of the Law on Courts in respect of the jurisdiction of the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia which enter into force on 1 January 2020 has been carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179244	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's my first colleague, Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179245	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. State secretary with associates. I'm curious briefly about the courts, especially normally for the seats, for the courts that are located in the county courts. Is it designed for youth departments, i.e. In particular, are the judges who are trained enough to deal with this matter because we know that everything about youth and minors is also complex matter that includes, not only courts but other institutions like the Social Care Centre, so I'm interested in just the judges who work on these subjects, is continuously leading education and are they prepared enough for such cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179246	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179247	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Ministry of Justice, the judicial authority takes care of the education of judges who work this specific matter, so the judges for youth are particularly educated through the Judicial Academy, which has long been established as a separate body, it acts within the Ministry, but is a separate body. In all county centers there are particularly educated judges for youth and of course it is a matter in which it is never enough, there is never enough education and there is never enough sensitivity to that population when it is found in conflict with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179248	Second replica, Comrade Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179249	Well, thank you, President HS. Dear Secretary of State. This legislative proposal should certainly be supported, but allow one comment. In view of the fact that underage persons are still being raised and educated, since I am following data related and published by the State Statistics Office, this is the most important issue of criminal acts against property and given the case law, please allow one comment. When you talk about strengthening the position of minors in front of the court, it seems to me that the best strengthening of the position of minors in the court would be to enable them to vote and that passive electoral right, not even important, is to be actively elected, especially in local elections to certain functions, and that would certainly ensure them a large, large degree of position, a stronger position in the courts, because in this way, judging by the case-law, many of them would avoid even a judicial problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179250	Here's your answer. Oh, no? Okay. Then we'll ask the committee's rapporteurs if they'll take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of HDZ MPs, respected counterpart Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179251	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The second reading is ahead of us Amendments to the Law on Juvenile Courts, here in the introduction the State Secretary cited in short what is being brought, especially the amendments to the second reading, but here is something to repeat since matter is both complex and extremely important. The Youth Court Act itself was passed in 2011, completed three times. The first amendments and additions have been made since 2012 in order to comply with the Penal Code itself and to improve legal provisions in accordance with the needs of practice. Other changes followed immediately after that in 2013 were precisely related to the amendments and to the alignment with the Law on the Criminal Procedure itself and the amendments of 2015 were created in order to remove the perceived ambiguities and the terminology of the legal text itself. As regards these amendments and additions and this proposal, these are the 4th amendments and additions to the law itself, primarily in order to bring national legislation in line with the EU acquis, the implementation of the 2016 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings. Of course, with the amendments to the implementation of the EU acquis, it was also necessary to bring the law into line with the amendments and additions to the CAP, as a consequence of Article 208, where a police examination of suspects was introduced as an action with evidence. The amendments have also been made to address the very shortcomings and doubts arising from the legal text and have been observed in its application in practice. As regards the abovementioned Directive on procedural guarantees for children who are suspects, defendants in criminal proceedings are determined by their normal procedural guarantees which are ensured that children, or persons under 18 years of age, when suspects or accused persons are in criminal proceedings can understand and follow the procedure themselves and exercise the right to a fair trial, prevent children from repeating the criminal offence and inciting their social integration. Although only the juvenile criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia is already largely and regulated not only by this Directive, it was necessary to supplement the amendments and additions to the procedural situation of minors themselves. It shall also be specified in detail the way in which a minor must be taught the meaning of his or her rights in order to transpose Article 4(2) of that Directive. Paragraphs 3 to 6 of Article 53 of the Law introduce the obligation to inform the parent of parental responsibility on the rights of minors, i.e. to provide or provide information on the rights of minors to a parent or guardian and to prescribe circumstances in which information is to be provided. the training on the rights of minors is given to another appropriate adult. As regards Article 53b, which proposes the transposition of Article 15 of the Directive, the right of minors to accompany parents, custodians or other appropriate adults during the proceedings and during the course of the trial before the court and the court proceedings shall always be subject to the said right and presence of parents or guardians in the criminal proceedings itself. The circumstances of the escort of another appropriate adult are also prescribed, the conditions under which a minor may also waive the right to the specified escort. For the purposes of the Directive, it is proposed to amend Article 54 to move the compulsory defence of a minor at the earliest stage of the procedure itself. The addition of Article 63 is also proposed, it applies and it is important to highlight because there has been a lot of debate and in the first reading itself regarding this, and this refers to the medical examination of the arrested minor as well as the recording of the conclusions and the use of the results of the medical examination itself. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Directive shall ensure that a minor who, during the duration of the investigation prison, spends 18 years of his life in a closed office if justified in the light of the circumstances of the minors and if this is in accordance with the best interests of other minors who are located with him. Article 76 has also been amended in a way that the questioning of minors is conducted by the police under the provisions of this law and of the CAP and the questioning of minors is the first evidence action to be carried out by a state lawyer other than emergency evidence actions in a situation where a minor is not investigated by the police or by a youth judge. However, for criminal offences under the jurisdiction of the county court, a minor must be investigated by a state attorney or a youth judge in order to ensure that a formal evidence action of the minor himself is always carried out in the process of serious criminal offences. The remaining changes and additions are the result of the needs that the practice itself has shown us, the need to remove perceived ambiguities and to comply with relevant national law. The most important point is that according to this law, the time limits of the outdated execution of the juvenile prison under the Youth Court Act are reserved. The proposed amendment is more related to the powers to bind minors only with criminal acts of violence but it is also allowed independently of the type of criminal offence if the minor himself is dangerous or for himself, the environment, other people's life and safety. What the Secretary of State pointed out to us regarding the amendments related to the delivery of decisions and other letters to the minors themselves, and in relation to the first reading and the bill proposal, the Proposer, in the text of the final proposal, amended and added. The following is important to highlight, which is the new Article 2 which amends Article 5(2), which prescribes that the educational reference measure in a educational institution which is normally carried out in an institution of social care may also be carried out in the case of a foster parent who carries out specialised foster care for children under a special regulation in accordance with their individual programme of conduct and in Article 10, which is added to paragraphs 53a. and 53b. the rights of minors covered by the training on rights in such a way as to give the right to supply and provide lessons on the rights of minors as well as the right to escort minors prescribed for another appropriate adult. So here it's expanded in the article about the special guardian himself. As regards Article 14 which prescribes a medical examination of the arrested minor, another appropriate adult who is authorised to require such examination himself has been designated. As regards the final draft of the law, the amendments and additions to Articles 37, 39 and 40 to which this law complies with the provisions of the Law on Courts of Jurisdiction of the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia. Following all of this and related to these changes that occurred between these two readings, the HDZ Club proposes that we adopt such a final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179252	Thank you. Now we're going to the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179253	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, at first sight one technical change, an amendment that has been primarily explained as a need for compliance with EU law. And that is not disputed, indeed in one part of this law it is necessary to comply with EU law and SDP Representatives' Club supports such changes. These changes will ensure additional, additional procedural guarantees and protection of minors who are accused of criminal proceedings and, normally, that we certainly support that part. But this law isn't just that. This law is not just a alignment with EU law, this law is more than that. This law has entered into matter and the way of treating minors who did not require the EU from Croatia. First of all, one of the remarks that we will talk much more about when we talk a little later today about the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is the High Criminal Court. An unnecessary court, a harmful court that will not bring good to the Croatian legal order, but I will stand there and repeat it once more. I'll talk more about it when we talk about the Code of Criminal Procedure. But here a provision has been introduced into the law that I'm not sure is in this law's place. The proposal for a law provides for an amendment to the provisions on the examination of minors. So far, the Law on Juvenile Courts has provided that an examination of minors can only be conducted in front of a state attorney. The State's Attorney's Office I assume we all know is a special service which is also responsible by the Constitution for the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences. State lawyers are lawyers, state lawyers are lawyers with years of experience who have had to go through a whole range of training and preparation in order to be able to participate in the examination procedures of the defendants, and those involved in the process in which minors also have to go through additional training and during their appointment and election there is special concern that only people who are sensitised and prepared for such work are coming to those positions. Anyone who has participated in a criminal proceedings against minors knows that criminal proceedings against minors require special and different access than regular criminal proceedings. That's why I'm completely doubtful that this law provides for two things. First, that the process of questioning minors will be possible in front of the police, and with all due respect to the police, I am not sure, according to the Croatian police, how sensitive the Croatian police are in relation to the State's Attorney's Office in dealing with minors, I am not even sure how dressed and prepared they are for this, whether special actions have been carried out to prepare the police for the new job being given to them. And secondly, particularly problematicly, so far, the law has provided for any hearing of minors, including before a state attorney, because so far it was only intended to be audio-visually recorded. If such, such a statement was not audio-visually recorded, it was considered illegal evidence. Now that provision from the law has been dropped. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have left the questioning of minors to the police, and we have dropped out of the law a provision that if such an examination is not audio-visually recorded, it will also be considered illegal evidence. With all due respect, I think that everyone who has any thought about this and who has any knowledge of the particular techniques of police handling the defendants this suggests that we will have a slightly increased number of confessions and crimes that have not been committed by that minor. I suggest that the honourable proposings reconsider this provision and propose as an amendment to the Government's amendment to it, and I am not personally sure that I will be able to support this law if this provision remains in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179254	The third club is GLAS's club and respected counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179255	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government as a proposing, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts is a matter that we will support. However, we want to take this opportunity, to point out that by proposing these amendments and supplementing the promoter did not do anything in good faith, and that has given us more information that actually stands when it comes to the trial of young people or when it comes to the record of criminal acts to see what is actually happening in society, whether there are some trends that are worsening or stagnation or improvement compared to previous situations. In fact, it is expected that socioeconomic relations in society have a significant impact on the level of deviating behaviour, as well as on the conduct of criminal and misdemeanor acts when it comes to youth. All the elements we study in the analysis of society are such that they do not actually benefit from the reduction of criminal offences but from the increase, particularly the exposure to poverty, the exposure to unemployment, and then the failure of the overall social care system. We want to take advantage of this opportunity and point to several elements of that system that we need to strengthen because youth courts are practically the last instance when it comes to young people being exposed to different risks and committing criminal acts, it would be far smarter, more meaningful, ultimately and cheaper to do everything to reduce the space in which these social phenomena occur. In this sense, the question arises what have we done to make the home system for carefree children better? So, what have we done for children without proper parental care to have social, social, social surveillance and social assistance? What have we done to strengthen fostering and fostering institutes? What do we do to make judges in youth courts, that all those involved in this process are sufficiently qualified and aware of the sensitivity of matter? As my colleague Grbin said, it is not the same thing when a juvenile and a minor are conducted, most of the time the adult is aware of all his rights and their rights are mostly more protected than the child's. On the other hand, the question arises, in what state is our social care centre system, which is also extremely important in this process, elements and important cells in assessing the situation when it comes to the action of young people's courts. Not only this matter but also a host of other issues that we have discussed in this home in the last 2 years, unfortunately to encourage scandals, affairs, and even serious criminal acts, murders, crime that revealed that many welfare centres do not have good capacity, neither have the resources nor people, therefore staff, are either protected enough or protected, so we had to apply the measure of declaring the employees of the social care centre to officials, so it says that this system is a vulnerable and normal state, and, above all, the smart government would put an emphasis on this issue and do everything in the budget to provide enough resources for social care centres to perform all their functions. If we are not aware that it is a question of the functioning of the courts for youth, and only the trial of young people, or particularly minors, that it is only part of the overall story and that functional policies should be developed there, then we are actually putting out fire in different places, and that individually small buckets, it can only enable this fire to continue to burn. It would be good to underline the line, to analyse the existing situation in all the elements that talk about risk, to which children and young people are exposed and to see what can be done in the prevention system, in the monitoring system, in the correct evolution and care of children and young people who are exposed to risks, and then also to challenges that rarely take them from the other side of the law, can and does not matter to us. We had a case of the same treatment for a child as an adult, and it ended in tragedy for a child with special needs because someone had no special sensitivity to this particular case, not a 16 - year - old child. treat equally and cannot be allowed to make the whole system in its elements not fully functioning. And this law says that in the process of hearings, minors have certain rights, but there are no instruments here that guarantee that this right will be achieved, of which, from the presence of parents, guardians or other adults, and further, in the course of the examination, when conducting investigations, what does that mean if it is in the best interest of the child? Who's estimating that? Judge? It's too late then. If we are not aware of this, you know that, that adults are much easier to protect, much easier to get information about their rights, in minors who have rarely left school, have exited from a system of education, which is rarely on the street, who are rarely completely unsettled or come from completely dysfunctional families or not living with parents or guardians or living, but without their supervision. We can't talk about how those kids who got caught up in committing crimes and crimes know all about their rights under the law. Because before the law, they're all the same. There's no presummation of guilt, there's presummation of innocence. Everyone needs to be given equal conditions when defending himself, and children are a particularly sensitive group because they do not have those mechanisms that a person of age already has. Yes, the courts cover those who are over 18 years old, and younger than 21, but in many cases this is actually about children, and that is why I appeal to the government's level, so the interressor issue of exposure to children and young people, especially minors, the initiation of various violations and criminal acts, and then the whole system that needs to be cared for, and then monitoring, palitatives, so to make a good analysis and to create one consistent, coherent state policy that will include 4 or 5 resolutions, from education and education, social care, justice, home affairs and others. We must be aware that this is a particularly vulnerable group to which society has, and then the state because it has been paid for, special obligations. In this sense, we call as the GLAS Club, the Government to set up an inter-resor working group and to make a quality and good analysis and to report to us over the next year on the overall state so that as a legislator we can give wind to the government's back to bring new regulations, whether strategies, action plans or something at that level, we all take more together to reduce the risk area, and then the number of those who commit offences and crimes, at such an early age as children. Because few of these children are exposed to social marginalization by their will. To this end, in many cases, in the vast majority, the overall social relations in society, the overall system negligentness and inability and the inability of parents to perform their duties. This country must have alternative answers because talking about demographic renewal, talking about demographic policy, not taking care of children in the right way and not doing everything to save every child from the risk of crossing the legal line is actually hypocritical because we and these children are actually losing. If we are unable to build a system that will, in a maximum number of cases, allow those children to return to normal life, return to the education system, return to the world of work, move away from that limit of illegality and function as members of the community responsible, as family people, tomorrow parents, then we have done nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179256	We're going to an individual debate now. First up is a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179257	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. This is certainly a very important topic and I fully agree with my colleague, Beusa Richembergh, about the importance of the topic and the sensitivity of the topic especially when we live in a society that we can call all other epithets except that society is just. So unfortunately we see from day to day the injustices that happen to our fellow citizens, the children look at it, the children also see and feel many injustices that are happening on their skin, the standards which unfortunately look positively and worth it in Croatia when you look at a coalition that is composed of constituencies and tokens, what kind of message do we send as a society of children when you look at the mayor of Zagreb who behaves with the property of the city as if he owns it? Unresponsible, non-transparent, etc., what kind of message do we send to the children? And it's normal that, I would say in the laws that we adopt here at HS, children need special protection, and if these laws change, they need to be very careful in which direction they go. As my colleague Grbin said in the procedure itself, children must be protected more than some other potential suspects for some crime and persons who have been reported and on the other hand, it is unacceptable for this standard to be humiliated, or that what he said to a colleague of the Grbin that it is possible to separate now the procedure that even the DORH people in it are not involved in the investigation that the police and the other part are doing, that this is not recorded and that we may have one situation which, at the moment, is not, and when you look at statistics and reports and criminal acts that have been reported and how many of these crimes have ended with certain proceedings before the courts, we see that this is a very significant number, means about 1500 minors apply for certain crimes and only 300-400 that, of these crimes by those persons ended in court. So the percentage of those reported and those who end up in a particular procedure is fat in favour of those who, even if they are eventually reported, do not finish the proceedings before the court. Is the intensity of what my colleague Grbin said to make certain efficiency and to be more, more recognitions, certain things that would then lead to more people being reported to the courts, I hope that's not the case. But the fact is that underage people will be put in a more unfavourable position compared to the current situation. Because let us be honest when we look at the whole system that was created to help and rehabilitate children in certain ways, there is more to be invested. So when we talk about this, we invest more in social workers and social workers who work with these kids, and not that these people for poor wages de facto help children, they get into this job from morning till tomorrow because people don't at all save themselves and try to help children find their space under the sun, that would be something that would be useful for the state to invest more and invest, and not for people to work for the minimum salaries of very responsible and socially useful jobs or, for example, to invest more in education and education system in a way, we see what drama we have now in the past few months related to the strike of teachers, which ultimately resulted in a satisfactory increase in wages. But that's just the first step, there's no reform anywhere near it. So these are things that are much more important to me in order to treat this problem and to finally send a message about what is important to us. Because once again I say, in our country, unfortunately, children see every day that justice and justice are gone from I told this House to all the other situations, to courts and for example this amazing situation that is now happening that the President of the Republic insists in his campaign forcing military people on his commercials even though the DIP warned her about it, but the DIP doesn't work any further. I expected the DIP to make some official decision on its body, not that someone would call the president's headquarters because it continues with such commercials where officers are on them. Instead of saying the President of the Supreme Court, who is the head of the DIP, calls the session, takes a stand and informs the public about it, he avoids doing so. And children see the everyday example and all of us who follow it that we are not all the same, that de facto one institution that should protect the entire procedure of a very important election for the president or president of the Republic de facto DIP allows the presidents of the Republic to use unauthorized funds, which is to use the army in their campaign. And already the second, third ad that we watch on the Internet shows it, and the DIP shuts up. I'm still giving here a chance to the DIP, and I asked them again what they'd do about it, not that HDZ Lovrin would answer me that they had alerted the headquarters. That's not gonna happen. And he says it's not an active Facebook campaign, it's not on Facebook anymore, but it's on the Index now, so you're on the side Mrs. Lovrin isn't there to protect HDZ but to protect the whole process. And on the other hand, when you look at a man, it's normal that that justice is not being imitated, and I would say to other spheres of society, or in this case, when we talk about juvenile courts and the example that we set in this way is not good because obviously children also see that not all are in the same position in the Republic. There are those who are privileged and those who are protected, and unfortunately they should all be in the same situation. And finally, here again, I hope that the applicant will accept these arguments related to certain procedures during the conduct of the entire procedure relating to minors who have spoken to fellow Peja Grbin in his debate and that they will make it all easier for minors to be protected because, as counterpart Beus Richembergh said, the elderly mean the adult persons have much more experience and knowledge and are more accessible to certain things and from one life position, they can manage much easier in this situation than children who are 15,16,17 years old and who simply deserve to be able to have a more favourable position, but of course because of statistics that say that from 1,500 registered children at the level of the year we have in the Republic of Croatia only 380 to 400 end up with a certain procedure that ends in court. And on the other hand, it says enough that this problem must be approached in a very careful way, in a way that the rights of these children are not threatened because in the vast majority of cases it is small and insignificant acts that should ultimately be used to understand the lesson and to in some way direct them as a society to become useful members of our society. And unfortunately, once again in Croatia, I say these examples at the highest levels of power have as much as you want where the exact opposite message is sent and I think that until we change such things that the situation between children and young people in Croatia is very difficult. Thank you very much, and I hope you accept these remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179258	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179259	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. When we talk about the second reading of this law today at the plenary session, then we follow the chronology of this topic in both the European Commission and how this directive has been incorporated into this law today. It would place the emphasis here on prescribing the court's obligation to establish, on the basis of a report by experts or the CZSS, the occurrence of significant changes. This is a very important fact covered by this law because there are often significant changes in relation to existing data as well as the obligation to invite a CZSS representative to the session. You're saying yourself that the need to comply with the Criminal Procedure Act and prescribe police treatment and change to minors so I think they're significant steps but I'm not going to repeat what you've already said. When we talk about the increase in criminality among minors, then we have to deal with numbers and say that it is 12 to 15% of the total share which is actually almost and identical to the other European countries, or the European average. If we ask the question why we seem to have more and more juvenile violence, although the data say it's the opposite, then we need to make a distinction between peer-in-command and criminality among minors and the answer is that if we're actually talking about criminality or juvenile crime, therefore criminal and criminal acts, then there's no increase and if we're talking about peer violence, then it's another category that's viewed by other parameters. The data from the courts therefore show that there has been no increase in crime, rather than what Judge Lana Peto Kujundzic pointed out recently in her interview, she said that for the past five years we have actually recorded a significant decrease in the rate of criminality of minors. What is important to emphasize when we talk about this law, whenever it comes to juvenile criminal or criminal offences, should first and foremost be examined, considered and placed in focus a family or family relationship because it is almost always a causal and consequential issue. Once a child who committed a crime or a crime before that was a victim, it was a very complex subject, and this law should, at the same time, reconcile a child who was a victim and a child who did not, or did, make a victim or vice versa without mentioning some painful stories about cyber bulling, bulling, etc., peer violence. So the aggressive behaviour of the child, thus all the experts and interested in the subject are also detected in kindergarten or preschool, and if such behaviour passes from year to year during primary and secondary education undetected, of course it will escalate at a teenage or puberty age, and then we will have all the problems, above all the family and those responsible for that child. So it is good for minors to most often express themselves beyond the law, and that is, above all, educational measures, so on. Special obligations, increased concern and supervision, etc. I'd say it in a colloquial way and the juvenile prison would only express itself exceptionally when these other so-called. sanctions or educational measures cannot work, usually in the case of older minors who, unfortunately, do not result in adequate results. What is important to point out, often children, especially younger minors, are not aware of their actions, even when it comes to criminal proceedings and especially when it comes to infringements, and then it should be pointed out that the aim of this law is not to punish minors, and that is the meaning of this Directive and other directives, because it always takes care of the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child and of other positive EU regulations and, of course, our country. So a minor or especially a younger minor, a child, must first of all regain his behaviour, if possible without going to court, if that is not necessary. So what is intended to do is to act in symbiosis and social workers and pedagogosis and psychologists and, of course, primarily help that minor to regain consciousness of his or her actions, especially when it comes to misdemeanours and then to act positively on the family’s relationship with the family, unless these relations in the family or that family are also the root of the problem. If the family is the source of the problem, then they will have to exclude the child from that family, move what is said because this family obviously has a negative effect on that minor or its own child. So what needs to be pointed out, the aim is not to punish at all costs and in the first place, is to raise healthy minors or healthy individuals who today-to-morrow will be equal members of society and the aim is to strengthen their social responsibility and, if we are talking about individual cases, of course, that some individual case will always end up in the media and then we will look through the prism of this individual case, however, each individual case should be considered as an individual case and, for each case, it should be given an assessment of this minor but also an assessment and the whole family, and parents or guardians or guardians to see whether there is a cause for this particular behaviour in that family or in that environment where that minor is located and that cause should be removed parallel with criminal justice proceedings. And I agree with those experts who say that each case is different and every minor is specific and every family or community in which the child grows up has its specifics just like any family. So what is the goal is, with what I have positively stated, so what this law is about, is also to seek a multidisciplinary evaluation of the family or community or the environment in which the child is growing up, and it is always necessary to do it parallelly to determine whether there is a risk of further mistreatment of that minor even when the criminal proceedings have been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179260	We have two replicas. The first one's a colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179261	Thank you very much. Comrade Irene, I hope that you agree with our findings regarding behaviour towards minors and, uh, this downsizing of the standards related to the interrogations we have so far, and I support your concern, your desire to focus more on social work towards potential persons means to minors who have committed certain actions and I hope that we have your support in keeping those standards that have remained at the same level so far. So if there are people who are trained in the DORH to do that kind of interrogation, we don't have to switch to the police now, given I'd say justifiable concerns about whether the police are adequately prepared for that kind of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179262	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179263	Dear counterpart Maras, none of the 4 amendments concerning the criminal-law conduct of minors, which came from the Ministry of Justice, did not go towards lowering standards, quite the opposite. We can just say that these changes may have gone too slowly or that they haven't been carried out as we'd like to, but none of these changes have gone towards lowering standards, quite the opposite. The following changes are also being prepared towards an even better standard and protection of victims, as well as the rights that minors exercise in criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179264	Second replica. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179265	Thank you, Mr. President. In most discussions, you have mentioned exactly and benefied the implementation of the Council Directive itself, but you have also referred exclusively to prevention which I think is the only drug related to the crimes that are related to young people, youth, especially minors, and that is where we return to the original. We're not going to get rid of anything here that I have to agree with you, with no punishments, or that judges are rigorous towards minors in committing these crimes, and we have to go back to having to specialize in courts, but also judges because this is a complex matter that is not only dealt with by criminal law, but other institutions like the welfare center are involved. So I think that the preventive factor of this law and in general these negative phenomena in society must be solved exclusively by education and by judges themselves, but also by setting up special departments that will deal exclusively with young people and minors in such procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179266	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179267	Thank you very much. Dear fellow I agree, prevention is important, multidisciplinary approach is always important when minors are involved. Here sits some dear colleagues with whom I have worked very happily and who are very aware of this matter and who are also a colleague or secretary of state, not to be the only one who has called my colleagues and who have dedicatedly worked on this matter and who are aware of all these things that we have now said in this brief individual debate. And I'm sure they're doing their best to further improve criminal proceedings, of course, in the interests of our children and in the interest of coming to that level sooner or later that we can no longer talk in coloquial and flat-rate terms because, as I said, there are always individual cases, but if we look at criminal-legal matter at the level of the state, then we can say that as far as this matter is concerned, we have almost well arranged this matter. And it's not my opinion, it's my expert opinion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179268	On behalf of the motionary government, the final address by State Secretary would now be respected by Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179269	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives and MPs, so I have to explain things briefly in the end, given that the law-making procedure is specific, so you are the one who gives the last word, you adopt or do not adopt any legal document that the Government sends to you. But I have to work, for the sake of truth, to compare this, this brief discussion with that story about a little lie that's being released, it's going down the streets and it's getting bigger and it's getting bigger and bigger and more and more for all those who talk about it. So here's my colleague, Honorable colleague Peja Grbin, who put out something that doesn't exist in the law. So, which is not the legal solution we've offered. So all relevant people who deal with juvenile crime in this country were sitting in the working group for the production of this legal document. So, respected and prominent state lawyers, respected judges who deal with juvenile crime and the department that specializes in this type of crime, the Department of Rijeka with their doctor who specializes in this problem and, of course, a group of people from the Ministry of Justice that I was in. What kind of structure would be people, so we've brought all the positions on the task force with a unanimous view of, most importantly, an important goal to improve the position of the juvenile defendant and the suspect in criminal proceedings. Of course, all the actions in relation to all these first actions are recorded, so it is not true that the procedural norm is such that the questioning of minors will not be recorded, it will be recorded by a colleague of the coat of arms and before the police under the rules of the Criminal Procedure Act applied in this matter as a subsidiary law. Those actions that the police officers will do, they have done much less formally so far, in a much less formalised procedure they have questioned minor suspects, questioned them without any procedural guarantees. Therefore, this law gives all procedural guarantees to these young people, lawyers, professionals and, of course, the recording of the store. So far, we've had informed conversations that were then subject and you as a lawyer know, but so do I, and some manipulations. So it is not convenient, it is not rightly simple through the prism of politics to doubt everything that is done in this legislative activity. So, we have done everything, we are convinced that we have improved the institute, that we have improved the position of the juvenile defendant in the process, that is our obligation as members of the EU, that is our obligation as a member of the Council of Europe, that is what we have done in the procedural laws and in relation to the adult defendants. So to argue that we didn't do it here without a valid argument just by saying that we made things worse, it's simply incorrect and it's not acceptable. We have improved the position of this legal document of minors as defendants in the process and we hope that this practice, the case law, will show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179270	We have three replicas, dear colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179271	All this stuff you've just said, I'm not denying it. It's denying the bill that's being referred to in practice. Art. 76th Law on Juvenile Courts, paragraph 3. If a minor has been tested contrary to paragraph 2 of this Article, means without audio-visual recording, no record of a minor’s examination may be used as evidence. You deleted that item from the law. Art. Article 76(1) A minor's interrogation is the first evidence store to be conducted by a state's attorney. That's how it's been so far, Art. 76th from now on, the juvenile interrogation is conducted by the police. So a respected colleague, I'm not denying you, you're being denied by the law and the police have so far questioned underage persons, but that evidence could not have been used in criminal proceedings because there was no insurance guarantee... the position of the defendant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179272	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179273	Dear colleague Grbin, you're simply wrong about these thesis. You're just saying something that doesn't exist in the law. So either you simply or you won't understand or don't understand that the Criminal Procedure Act is being subsidized in this matter and that we have essentially left the CAP as such by deleting that item 2. So what you're talking about, informed conversations, so, of course, all those who graduated from law school know that conscious conversations weren't evidence, so, in that way, there could have been an abuse that you're talking about today. Today we have a formally arranged operation that will be conducted through the CAP with the presence of all professional persons and of course defenders, which is most important at the earliest stage of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179274	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179275	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, here's just for the end of one question, do you think that it's sufficiently detailed from the very assumptions and the conditions that allow a 19-year-old to be tried as a minor, or do we leave it exclusively to the courts themselves as their discretionary right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179276	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179277	Hey, buddy, I gotta be honest with you, I didn't understand what you were asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179278	What do we do now? Then let's go to the third line, colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179279	Thank you very much. Mr. Martinovic, I must admit that you do not sound convincing to us, so you deleted something that was written in the law and that provided certain guarantees that Mr. Grbin had just spoken of me, which set standards where minors were protected in the process in such a way that certain actions had to be done, filmed when being examined and on the other hand when it could not be done in the police. I don't think I should be vividly explaining why the police shouldn't do it that way, we've all seen movies do it, so it's one thing when a person comes into that position and the other thing is when a child comes into that position, they're interrogated by two cops, one good, one bad. So that's what I wanted to avoid, I have to admit that you're not convincing me and we're asking you to return those provisions so that we can have certain safety for minors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179280	Thank you, Comrade Maras. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179281	So, dear Representative Maras, this is your claim that you are essentially talking about how much you are able to see the legal order in a single matter. So I can't explain to you how to read all the procedural laws in one whole to understand this norm. So you're reading one norm, you're erasing one item, and you think that we've solved all of this, of course, you consider it negative. So I'm telling you, the CAP, along with this law, makes one whole about process tools and you obviously don't understand it when you insist on something that isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179282	Okay. This is what we came to the end of the debate, so I'm closing it up, and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, Second Reading, P.Z.E. 656. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 80 for, 43 abstentions passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179285	... So here are the three legal documents Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Protection against Family Violence, which somehow makes it a common criminal problem, and here, with your consent, we will conduct a united debate. [[Specially enabled.]] First, I'm going to say something about reasons and goals, and what we did when we affected the amendments and additions to the Penal Code. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code has already been adopted in the Croatian Parliament in the right reading on 29 November, and the draft final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code has five objectives. Strengthening legal policy and punishment, prescribing qualified forms of criminal acts for the actions of a close person, extending the definition of an official, changing the concept of a rape crime, prescribing stronger criminal protection of persons performing public-interest or public service tasks, further harmonising with the Directive on the prevention of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. Compared to this first goal, the tightening of legal policy and punishment has been achieved in such a way that higher special minimums of imprisonment for crimes of domestic violence, mutilation of female sexual organs, physical injury to a close person, serious physical injuries are again committed to a close person, especially serious physical injuries to a close person, violations of child's rights, higher special maximum sentences of prison for the crimes of sexual activity and sexual harassment. The proposed changes will result in a stronger general prevention, will reduce the scope for the application of the Institute of Work for General Goods and conditional convictions, while retaining the acquisition for the crime of domestic violence and the physical injury to the close person. Prescribing qualified forms of criminal offences for the actions of a close person in relation to the crime of threat and the criminal offence of intrusive conduct, the proposed amendments will result in a strict penalty for the conduct of those offences against a close person and the prosecution of the official duty for those offences. The crime of domestic violence has also been extended in its legal description in a way that, as a new consequence of the initiation, the state of long-term suffering has been introduced. In relation to our third objective, the definition of an official referred to in Article 87(3) will be expanded. In such a way as to include, with an existing circle of officials, an expert who performs activities in social care, education and education, the KZ will include the same. The reasons are familiar. The proposed amendment will result in stronger criminal protection of those persons, e.g. the offences of coercion against the official person and the assault on the official person, as well as the extended criminal liability of those persons to those offences which may be committed only by persons who have the property of the official person. A different concept of the rape crime is proposed. Any non-consensual sexual relations or sexual relations with him is also considered to be a criminal act of rape and when there is no use of force or threat to life and the body of a raped or other person. The proposed amendment will result in the erasure of the criminal act of sexual intercourse without consent, the concept of consent. The draft proposal continues to model the concept of consent as defined by the criminal act of sexual relations without the consent referred to in Article 152. KZ. Prescribing stronger criminal protection of persons who do business of public interest or in the public service, that is our fifth objective. For example, drivers performing public passenger transport operations through a new Article 315.b of the KZ which introduces a new criminal offence towards a person performing public-interest or public service tasks. Penalty of non-execution of the judgment referred to in Article 311 The 2011 KZ has been complemented as a consequence of the proposed changes to the CAP by a new mode of initiation, so the crime will be carried out by one who does not adhere to an independent precaution given to it by a court ruling. The difference between the draft proposal and the draft final proposal for a law is further alignment with the Directive on the prevention of sexual abuse, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography in Article 161(1), the cheating of children to meet sexual needs. A criminal offence may be completed in the manner of the perpetrator of this crime's intention and may also be directed at the initiation of the criminal offence of child exploitation for pornography Article 163(1) and (2). For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: KZ. the amendment is the definition of pornography referred to in Article 163(3). KZ in such a way that the artistic, medical and scientific importance of the material cannot lead to the exclusion of illegality for the criminal offence of the exploitation of children for pornography if that material shows the right child or the realistically displayed non-existent child or person who appears to be a child in the right or simulated connection to explicit behaviour. The criminal act for child exploitation for pornographic performances has been complemented by the definition of pornographic performance. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The KZ is set out in the separate paragraph 3 of Article 155. KZ. Finally, as regards the Penal Code, the entry into force of this law was prescribed on 1 January 2020 as a result of an integrated package of amendments to criminal law. Compared to the Law on the Protection of Family Violence whose changes are closely related to the change of the KZ. We had three goals, a tightening of the legal policy of punishment, a revision of the forms of domestic violence and an extension of the circle of persons to which the law applies. The tightening of the legal policy of punishment has been achieved in a way that more fines and penalties have been offered for all forms of domestic violence, where penalties have been built in such a way as to punish the perpetrator who repeats domestic violence or commits it in the presence of a child or person with disabilities or an elderly person. The penalty is also tightened for healthcare professionals, social care workers, persons employed in educational and educational institutions, professional workers employed in religious institutions, humanitarian organisations and civil society organisations, and all other professionals who come into contact with victims of domestic violence and who do not report to the police or the State's Attorney's Office the initiation of domestic violence they have learned in their work. The second goal is to redefine physical violence in such a way that it is as prescribed as the application of physical force due to which no physical injury occurred in the judicial and medical sense. So you understand that this is a violation of the law so that the application of the physical force, for example, will remain in the criminal sphere while those cases that, as a result of the above-mentioned push result in physical injury in a medical sense. The third objective is to extend the circle of persons to whom the law applies. A circle of persons to whom the Law on protection against domestic violence... harmonizes the law which regulates the matter of protection against domestic violence with criminal law in such a way as to enable the proposed amendment to apply this law to the same circle of persons and the Penal Code provides additional protection in the event of criminal offences related to domestic violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the bill proposes to extend the obligation of the competent authorities referred to in Article to a more comprehensive monitoring of the forms of domestic violence. Article 20(1) The law on protection against domestic violence in 2017 to collect data on the application of the KZ as well as to extend the powers of the Commission to monitor and improve the work of the body of criminal and criminal proceedings and to enforce sanctions relating to the protection against domestic violence to the application of the Law on protection against domestic and KZ violence. The final draft law amending the Law on Protection against Family Violence differs from the proposal for a law on the date of entry into force, instead of the entry into force of the eighth day of publication in the National Journal, it is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2020 and to bring the date of entry into force of this law into force of the Act on Amendments and Supplements of the KZ and the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the CAP with which the package makes up the laws. Finally, changes and additions to the CAP, a draft bill on amendments and additions to the CAP was adopted in the Croatian Parliament on 29 November. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the CAP proposes amendments and additions to the CAP aims at harmonising domestic criminal procedural legislation with the Directive on legal aid for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings, speeding up criminal proceedings, amendments and additions to the Institute of Exclusion, prescribing the concentration of illegal evidence on the accused council, different regulation of the bonds of investigation, speeding up police work, reducing unnecessary administration, erasing the preparatory hearing in criminal proceedings up to 15 years of imprisonment and erasure of opening speeches, strengthening precautions, prescribing new precautionary measures, prohibiting internet access and... Institute of Self-Deservation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Compared to the text of the bill that was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in the first reading, certain differences arose in the final proposal. Like. provisions laying down the burden of proof and the right to temporary legal assistance of the defenders to the burden of budgetary resources have been specified. Changes have been made to the provisions on prison in the home in order to create legal assumptions for the introduction of electronic surveillance, an electronic bracelet ensuring the execution of an investigative prison in a home with a delay in the entry into force of those provisions until 1 January 2021 when it would be to create technical assumptions for this new institute in our criminal sphere. The criminal proceedings are further accelerated in relation to the second-degree procedure, simplifying the form of holding a public session of the second-degree council, more the Judge-Rapporteur does not start the session by giving his report but the session begins by making the parties more clear by prescribing the conduct of the second-degree court when he abolishes the first-degree decision due to a significant breach of the provisions of criminal proceedings and thus the precision of the proceedings and the first-degree court in the repeated proceedings following the suspension of the judgment. Following the second-degree court's instructions, further acceleration of the procedure with a specific objective of reducing the number of suspension decisions in the same case will be achieved, i.e. the multiple return of the case to the lower court for rejuvenation. Even more precisely, the real jurisdiction of the High Court of Penitentiary is arranged. These shall be adapted to the transitional and final provisions prescribed in the light of the start of the work of the High Criminal Court dealing with pending cases. In view of the change and addition of the KZs that are also under way, and in view of the erasure of the criminal offence without consent, the amendments to the definition of the rape offence have been amended in respect of the jurisdiction of the CAP and thus since 1 January 2020. The offence of rape along with the former criminal act of sexual intercourse without consent shall be in the jurisdiction of the county courts. According to the current rules of jurisdiction, the criminal act of sexual intercourse without consent was in the jurisdiction of municipal courts. This amendment therefore provides for an even greater level of legal protection of victims of a rape offence by transferring it to a senior court. And finally some were done, I'd say, for the procedure of non-essential nomotechnic, nomotechnical alignment. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179286	We're going to the replicas, we've got two of them. The first one's a respected colleague of Jack's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179287	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I will refer to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence and in order to achieve the fundamental intensity of this law that implies, as you have said, stricter sanctions for violent persons and in order to achieve the effect of a stronger general prevention, which is why not an extended circle of persons to whom this law applies to intimate partners and partners of the adolescent age?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179288	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179289	And the distinguished MPs, so I was just talking about the law-making procedure. So the law is a complex document in which, of course, there is a lot of desire for all social structures and different social groups. Simply, we have, in an intensive procedure of harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the EU and the EU councils, I think that by now I think we have intervened about two hundred times in the criminal sphere only adapting our legislation to the standards of the EU Council, members of the EU Council and the EU. To assume that at this point we weren't occupied by that segment, so we didn't make it past all the things that we harmonize, make that step, or agree on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179290	I'm a friend of yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179291	Well, thank you, Your Honor. So, just one question. We here except that we extend and mean to official persons, which I absolutely welcome, we prescribe a new independent crime, coercion towards a person who performs public-interest or public service tasks in the public service. Now, how did we change art? In 87, where we have explained the meanings, we do not have in this bill an exact explanation of the meaning that these are persons performing matters of public interest. Who's going to assess that? I think it would be good to maybe mention them, just as we listed exactly who the professionals are. And another question as to the Code of Criminal Procedure, we are now giving the police the opportunity to determine the necessary skills they consider meaningful. I guess that's what this is about, of course, judicial warlocks. I wonder if those resources are sufficient to carry out these tasks And is that going to the M.O.P.'s burden? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179292	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179293	Public interest persons are in some way affected by a stronger criminal protection, and these persons are defined by specific laws. Honestly, in this situation, at the Ministry of Justice, at the stage when this law was made by trade unions, people who care about the safety of drivers in public transport who are very often affected by various attacks by passengers appeared. We couldn't put them in the official staff and somehow we found a way to protect them more strongly through process-legal tools.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179294	Thank you. He also says his colleague, Maras, that he's raised a replica, he hasn't been spotted, so here we are, giving him a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179295	Thank you very much. My colleague Martinović, I agree and would like to point out here specifically for the introduction of the status of officials for social workers and for employees in the education system. I'm sorry that only after escalating certain cases have been approached, we should have done so much sooner, but I think we should circle that whole with health care professionals in the health system. We saw an unloved scene the other day in a Zagreb hospital, I think that, and I think that would be correct, as well, here, in a way I appeal to think about it. I'm not gonna say I'm judging, but think about it and try to put people who work in health care that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179296	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179297	Well, thank you, Agent Maras. So, we, the medical staff in the earlier amendment and the supplementation of the Penal Code, protected them in a special way by introducing a special criminal act, and by their wishes, we avoided dragging them into official persons. So we've protected them more strongly, especially the criminal act has been introduced, and that same model we've now applied to these people who do business of public interest. So, doctor, we protected the medical staff in the past intervention in the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179298	Thank you. Would one of the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate and first in line is a respected colleague, Maria Jelkovac, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. I remind you once again, clubs can speak for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179299	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I will try on behalf of the HDZ Club in this united debate to present the most important amendments to all three final drafts of the law. As regards the final proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Penal Code, it should be said that it has been amended four times so far. The goal of these recent changes is actually to strengthen criminal protection against domestic violence. Given the last unpleasant events that we have had in society, we think that this kind of incursion in this way is justified in changing the criminal law because I think that as a society we must react to all such negative phenomena and that we must try to find ways to bring them down to a minimum. It is therefore proposed to amend and supplement the legal description of the crime in the family referred to in Article 179a of the Penal Code in a way that introduces a new consequence of the initiation, which is the state of long-term suffering and the penalty is tightened. In addition, the definition of a rape offence referred to in Article 153 shall be amended in such a way that any sexual relationship without consent and even when no force or threat to life or the body of a raped person or another person is considered to be a criminal act of rape. For this reason, it is proposed to delete the criminal offence of sexual intercourse without the consent referred to in Article 152. Article 154 is also intervened in such a way as to propose that all qualified forms prescribed in the article in question represent circumstances which make the rape offence more difficult. The existing articles of the Criminal Code for the criminal offence of threats referred to in Article 139 and for the criminal offence of intrusive conduct referred to in Article 140 have been supplemented in such a way that a more severe penalty is prescribed when a criminal offence has been committed according to all categories of close persons and may be prosecuted by official duty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The penal law in a way that, with existing categories of official persons, professional workers from the activities of social care, education and education are included, as we consider justified. A new act of coercion shall also be imposed against a person who performs matters of public interest or in the public service. This bill proposes tightening the legal, criminal legal policy of punishment in relation to individual offences. It is also proposed to supplement the criminal offence of non-execution of the judgment referred to in Article 311. A criminal law incriminating the non-compliance with an independent precautionary measure by a court ruling. In the end, it is also proposed to delete the criminal offence of serious disgrace referred to in Article 148. The penal code and the damage will be able to claim damages in civil proceedings. In view of the proposal for a law in the first reading, some additions have been made, i.e. some additions, so that, in order to further comply with the Directive on the prevention of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography in Article 161(1), it is actually complemented, there will be an extended criminal offence in a way that the intention of the perpetrator of this crime can also be directed at the initiation of criminal acts of child exploitation for pornography and child exploitation for pornographic performances. Finally, the proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code will ensure stronger criminal and legal protection of victims of certain serious criminal offences and, as it is also significant, extends the definition involving officials. As regards the proposal, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act should say that the most important reason for these amendments is to comply with Directive 2016/1919 of the EU on legal aid for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and requested persons in the process on the basis of a European arrest warrant. The aim of these amendments is also to speed up the criminal proceedings and strengthen the precautionary measures. The Directive requires that detainees, suspects and defendants of a weaker property status in access to defences be not in a more unfavourable position than those of better assets and that their defence costs be borne by the State in that case. The Directive aims at strengthening the procedural position of suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and for the purpose of ensuring the right referred to in point (c) of Article 6(3) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In particular, the Criminal Procedure Act and is now laid down in Article 72 of the criteria under which the defendant is entitled to defend himself on the burden of budgetary means but it does so at later stages of the procedure. While the directive now imposes that obligation at the earliest stages of the procedure and in the previous procedure that we have implemented these amendments and incorporated into the law itself. So that right will be recognised by the arrestee with a check on the property i.e. its statement that there is no means for defence costs and, in addition to this criterion, the right to defend the burden of the budget shall be recognised in the proceedings for offences for which the sentence of imprisonment is prescribed for more than 5 years. According to the current solution, the paper is that the judge decides on this right, and this is due to the urgency of acting at the earliest stages of the procedure because it is available through duty. In the event of a court’s application for a ruling on the previous issue, it is prescribed that the court will suspend the proceedings and that the appeal against that solution is not permitted and that there is no statute of limitations of prosecution during the duration of the proceedings. Some newspapers are also proposed for precautionary measures to strengthen the institute especially when the longest term of the investigation is up. A new measure has also introduced a ban on Internet access. As new solutions that speed up the criminal proceedings, they shall be proposed in respect of the exemption when a request for the exception of a senior court judge is only possible after the case is brought to a higher court on the ground of appeal. It is then proposed that the party's indictment council must immediately put forward a proposal for the release of illegal evidence. The possibility of reading previously provided evidence without the consent of the parties when amending the President of the Council is proposed. It is also proposed that police be able to carry out a proof-of-recognition operation on their own without the warrant of a state lawyer, to request the necessary skills other than autopsy, exhumation and molecular genetic analysis and to request physical examination and blood and urine from the defendants and other persons who are obliged to inform the state's attorney in due time, which will also lead to faster and more effective police treatment. This proposal allows for the determination or extension of the investigation prison in the event of an unlawful sentence of 5 years or harder when the court will always determine the investigation prison and when the maximum term of duration has expired. Now, the court has no possibility of keeping the defendant in the D.A.'s jail if these longest periods of time have expired, and he can't even determine it. Furthermore, the preparatory hearing will no longer be conducted in criminal proceedings for which a sentence of up to 15 years is prescribed, and in criminal proceedings for which a sentence of more than 15 years is prescribed, only if they are under assessment of the need for its implementation, which also speeds up the procedure. In order to speed up the procedure, it is also proposed to delete the opening speeches as there is no point in the opening statement of the parties to the court. The future High Criminal Court begins with the work of 1.1.2020 and is proposed to decide in the second degree on complaints against decisions of the county courts, unlike the current decision on complaints against decisions of the county courts, and the High Criminal Court decides in appeals against judgments of municipal and county courts. Compared to the text of the proposal we had in our first reading, some improvements were also made, and the proposal was for this law to take effect from 1.1.2020. As regards the final proposal for the Law amending the Law on Protection against Family Violence, it should also be said that the aim of this bill is also to strengthen the legal policy of punishment for all forms of domestic violence. There have been increased fines and prison sentences, there have been audits of forms of domestic violence. The basic characteristics and legal consequences of the proposed amendments have been modified by the legal qualification of physical violence as one of the forms of domestic violence in order to allow for a clearer distinction of the infringement from criminal law. Under the new proposal, physical violence will be qualified as a physical force resulting from no physical injury, e.g. Pushing what is a violation, while when a bodily injury occurs, it is a criminal offence. Due to these changes in the legal policy to combat punitive conduct, it is assumed that the result will be a stronger general and special prevention of punishment and better protection of the victim. In view of the proposal for a law in the first reading, there has also been an amendment to the way in which the entry into force of this law into force on 1 January 2020 is proposed in order to comply with all these laws before the whole set of these laws, respectively. Thank you very much. The HDZ Club will support all three bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179300	Thank you. I welcome you to the gallery although at the departure of the Women's Association "Preslica" from the Municipality of Sracanec and welcome to the Croatian Parliament. We're moving on to the next debate. [[Applause.]] On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honored State Secretarys with Associates and State Secretary and Associates, Honored Fellows and Fellows, SDP's Club has already in its first reading on two drafts of the law, means the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Protection against Family Violence and the Proposed Amendments and Supplements of the Penal Code actually apostrophe of a positive attitude on amendments which, which new legal solutions offer, which is to strengthen legal penalties for acts of domestic violence, extend the definition of an official to persons working in the social care system and the education system to be more protected in the conduct of official duty, and not for this reason exposed to violence, so that the violence in this case goes unpunished, i.e. that these entire mechanisms are very, very complicated. Secondly, we also support the final amendment of the criminal act of sexual intercourse without consenting to rape, which is what it is and I think that this law is a good example, regardless of probably the need for amendments to some legal provisions have contributed to many of the unpleasant events that we have witnessed lately in society, which have quite sensitized the Croatian public. Also, some scandalous rulings by Croatian courts have been accelerated, and legal solutions have in fact summarised in this proposal what experts and individual associations have been warning for years, meaning from civil, civil society, but it is a good thing that they do. It's actually the right way, and we have to, we have to support it. Equally, this tightening of penalties for domestic violence, violent behavior is a strong message in fact by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the state in dealing with violent people in our society and hopefully a strong message as to what our goal is, and that is the zero tolerance rate to violence. It will be very difficult to reach, of course, a society where there is a zero degree of tolerance to violence, but it is important that as long as there is one person whose life is in danger in terms of violence, while there are persons who threaten the safety, health and right to some normal life of others that we as a state show that we are willing to calculate ourselves, to count on it deliberately, to deal with them in the most qualitative and strictest possible way. This strictness of punishment is not surprising that we had to, I mean it's not yet that we can say is, we're too strict, but certainly we're not so mild, and especially because we're now dictated by the pace of Croatian courts that show principled research by the attorney for gender equality on the cause of 470 misdemeanors, but also because they're not the exception or judgment for criminal offences, that actually courts tend to punish the lowest, mildest penalties, and that's why this is the right way. So I'm going to repeat it myself, and when we discussed the law in the first reading, the average fine was 1,727,79 lip for the violation of violence, as it was treated then, and the prescribed minimum was a thousand kuna, so here we see that the tendency to prescribe minimum penalties was... The average conditional sentence was 21 days, with an average delay of 10 months, and the average sentence of the prison was 19 days. All of these reasons are why it is good for Croatian courts if we are already going through the policy of the nearest punishment to enable victims or ensure that at least in this case these closest penalties are not really funny penalties in which the procedures for certain acts last much longer than those imposed in the end. And that's where I'll end up thanking you for this law. And now I'm going to express my regret in fact that we haven't gone one step further or two steps further, and that step further would certainly be a stronger protection of victims of violence that are not in marriage or out-of-marriage communities, who have no children in intimate relations with them, are not in marriage or out-of-marriage communities or in some form of partnership as the law knows him, do not share the household, and victims are violence. So those persons under this law still do not fall under the category of close persons and abusers who commit violence against them will be milder punished or will not at all be sanctioned because they do not, in this relationship, share a common household, have a common child or are not registered according to the law in this regard some partnership or community. In particular, I want to point out the problem we are facing, it has shown some research, it is violence in adolescent relationships which is a terrible problem, where girls are already at an early age, where they don't have to be underage to belong to that group of children but they can already be adult victims of violence, and it has simply become a model of behavior that I won't say is acceptable, but with the messages we've sent so far, it's not something that's unwanted behavior and something that will be firmly, hard and unscrupulously sanctioned. What we also felt that you should have taken a step further and that you may have failed to do along with this extension of the definitions of close persons to people who are in intimate relations that I had just said or were in intimate relations with, because very often both former partners are accounted for through violence with ex-partners is also what she warned me about in consulting with the interested public Autonomous Women's House, if I remember correctly, means the issue of non-depreciation or obsolescence of acts of sexual abuse and child abuse. There is not an absurdity that you, when violence is committed in your youth, when you were a child, can not actually report it because of an obsolescence later when you are an adult or there is a statute of limitations, and if there is a fatal consequence, there is a fatal consequence of sexual abuse and exploitation of children with fatalities there is no statute of limitations, and on the other hand, if there are serious physical injuries there, if I understand it well from consultation with the interested public. Maybe I didn't get it right, but I think yesterday and on the board of colleagues from the Autonomous Women's House, they made a good point again. It is illogical and we believe that this law supports those who pointed to this failure and that this law could make it right. And it may also have been more clear to work on the distinction between offenses and crimes when we talk about domestic violence because there is still space there so that there may be some confusion and that it may not be possible in all cases to distinguish in which way to act. I'm going to finish this moment. I have to give my word to my colleague, Peja. Thank you very much. So we will be abstentioned to this one law because we believe that there could be even more illogicality and that would make the law much better, but in any case the whole thing does not diminish the value of the steps made in the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179302	Thank you. Continuing the debate, dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. As my colleague Glasovac said, as regards the Law on Protection against Family Violence, I support this amendment, but as far as the KZ is concerned, we believe that the step has gone in the right direction but that it stopped before the goal was made, before the goal was achieved. In our first reading, we supported this law, we made a series of remarks about it, we keep constructive, some remarks are also accepted, but this substance that my colleague Jeckov and colleague Glasovac spoke of before me is not accepted and this prevents us from supporting this law. Also, another observation which we hold was to be accepted and not accepted, we do not see any obstacle to the additional protection of healthcare professionals because if protection through giving the position of an official is given to educational and educational workers, if given to social workers, then we do not see any obstacle to doing the same with regard to healthcare professionals because we believe that regardless of the existence of a special criminal act that you have stated in the interpretation of the law will be lower than those professions that we have stated and no one can convince me that, for example, a health care worker who is working night shift in emergency care, is less threatened than an educational, educational or social worker. My colleague Glasovac and I split up a little bit in a way that she was talking about a law relating to protection against domestic and KZ violence and I'm allowed to talk about the last law that is part of this package, which is the CAP. And here, compared to the first reading, several corrections have been made, one of them is particularly good, it is a fact that it is very clear that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia will decide in the third degree on complaints when it comes to criminal acts for which a long-term prison has been imposed, and thank you for accepting that remark, however, it is necessary and there will nevertheless be provided and preserved part of the position of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, however, remains the problem of the High Criminal Court. We cannot stress enough how unnecessary this court is, how much this court has no place in our judicial order at all, and how much that court is actually created just because of someone's personal ambition. The numbers say the best there is. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has about 14,500 outstanding cases, i.e. at the end of 2018, according to a report presented by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, 14,500 cases approximately. Of which 95% of the backlogs are civil objects. 95% behind. There are only 700 cases between unsolved cases. When we know that unsolved cases are numbers and complaints that will be handed over today or tomorrow, then we can say that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about criminal matters, has actually come into the situation of a regular procedure. If there is something to be done, do, excuse me, in order to resolve these 700 lagging cases, then it can be done by hiring a judge, by improving one judge to the Supreme Court, and not by creating a new High Court of Justice who, apart from the fact that the Republic of Croatia will cost about 14 to 15 million kuna a year, because of the need to arrange space, will question the work of the County Court in Zagreb, because the county court has been taken away from it, judges at the County Court in Zagreb will have to work in offices of three or four judges of the county judge, they will find it difficult to do without telling them what the problem of improving certain judges at the High Court of Justice will have for the proceedings that are under way and when we specifically talk about the protection against domestic violence, one of such proceedings is precisely due to the violence in the family against the mayor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the High Criminal Court is completely unnecessary, do not do this, you will do harm to this Croatian legal order itself, you will not bring any good. As my colleague Glasovac said, I will repeat once again, we will support the adoption of the Law on Protection against Family Violence, we will be abstentioned by the amendments of the KZ and the ZKP, which are now ahead of us, in no case can we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179304	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino. Next debate on behalf of GLAS Representatives Club, respected counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179305	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The changes between the two readings are minimal. In this sense, it is almost possible to repeat the debate two weeks ago and completely. What I'd like to underline here anyway is the expeditivity of the ministry. They listened to the request to shorten all possible deadlines when the whole process of draft law was delayed or when the whole process of drafting the bill lasted several months so that this gap between the two readings would be shortened as far as possible so that the law could actually enter into force on 1 January 2020, in that sense we commend the ministry's insistence that, immediately after the first reading, prepare and propose a final law. In all these amendments that are proposed, of course, there are those that are dubious because we still don't know how they're going to work. Of course, this primarily refers to those changes that have no direct connection with the very idea of tightening legislation regarding sanctioning domestic violence, but rather to those changes introduced in these three legislative proposals. But it wouldn't happen that because of something that's extremely important right now, we're just acting out of position just because we're here to be against it. We are aware of this social problem, which is greatly sharpened by the fact that the public has increased interest, so sensitivity to what is happening in society. We are very concerned about the fact that there is a severe repression of implementation of the Istanbul Convention, unfortunately not only in Croatia but in many other countries, and almost the same rhetoric behind which certain lobbys do not correspond to improving the social status of women as such. In this sense, we will support the proposals that are formulated in these laws to strengthen and speed up procedures when it comes to sanctioning family abusers, of course that applies to both sexes. What we want to underline again, so almost as much as the same matrix when we were discussing the Youth Court Act, let's see the excess policy. This is only one element in this struggle to combat and prevent domestic violence. The public debate on this problem has been going on for a very long time, since the ratification of the Istanbul Convention to date, many ink and printing colors have been spent, and on the other hand, sound and voice and images to oppose certain arguments that have turned out to be quasi arguments, a hollow story aimed at stopping a social progress in which gender equality, equality before the law and protection for the weaker. The story of domestic violence is also the story of violence against children who may not be physically the first to be threatened, but in the long run they are. So all those who are full of the mouths of the family as one framework in which a new society is created are actually, and they have opposed the idea of increased protection against domestic violence are actually hypocrites who do everything they can to keep families at risk so that as soon as possible before they fall apart and that should be clear. Only by preventing, by stopping violence, by developing those mechanisms that protect the victim and prevent the bully from committing crimes in what we call domestic violence, can we, first of all, preserve peaceful relations, second, create an atmosphere in which, if marriage and child does not function, the trauma from it and third ultimately, if the violence emerges from the conflict in the family is possible even to save itself. Anything else including this turning back of a church to a woman who's victim of violence is a terrible hypocrite. We have heard devastating statistics, how many women who have been victims of violence have no idea at all to report violence because they believe neither in justice as such nor in the functionality of the institutions that are called to help and to protect it. And not to mention the even worse statistics, which is how many of them give up their application when they become exposed to further victimization. So it's not enough that trauma of primary abuse, but we're still exposing it to the traumas of abuse by institutions, going through this whole process countless times where you actually lose every will to life, where you kill a person in your personality, speciality and dignity. So I repeat, let's see the system policy. We'd like to see a government reference centre that would coordinate all resolutions that have something to do with the general policy of countering violence. For two years, we've been talking about it not yet, say, a public campaign that would deter violent people. Does potential violent knowledge of what awaits him in the legal system? Do they know how much his prison sentence has been prevented? Maybe if someone heard what was waiting for them in the back of the line, they'd think about it six times before they could raise their hand or God forbid a weapon on the person they share their lives with. Why is there no such public action? Maybe the answer is the same as why there are no public health actions. There's really no prevention in any of the resors, and that's the problem. That is why I would say we would like a reference centre that would include the competent Ministry of Social Care, the competent Ministry that cares about the judicial framework, respect for the law, as well as the penalization of the so-called repressive apparatus to see what is done and at what stage and at what level can be done. That would be a serious approach to this problem. We hope that these changes and additions will contribute to that. We hope that the Ministry of Justice will make sure that, within such short time, all these amendments and judges who have judges are well prepared, informed, educated because some changes in the procedural character, and some are essential, this is a new understanding of the many elements of the committing of criminal offences that are embodies with domestic violence. That's why the GLAS club will support these changes. We hope that what the SDP colleagues have as key remarks when it comes to the Criminal Procedure Act that by the middle of next year, since the High Criminal Court will be ready to act on 1 January to correct the situation if it proves to be dysfunctional because it is not without the devil that the law was passed yet in 2011. That decision on the existence of the High Criminal Court was then postponed from 1.1.2015 but from 1.1.2020. I hope that the government, as a proponent of these solutions, is aware that there have been problems before and in the understanding of this institution and in the expectation that it will work. You know that in fact, the public reacted negatively in the way the members of that High Criminal Court were elected because they do not in any way instill confidence that such a new institution would function in the right way. Unfortunately, what the opposition is saying always turns out to be true because the government has this amazing habit of never listening to what is said but only doing the division by who said something. I'm not sure that's the smartest criterion, because as you'd say, the man and the cargo know more than just a man, so make sure that both the government and the opposition know more than just the government, this has so far proved to be 1001 cases. If you are already insisting on this then be aware that you are taking a great risk or full responsibility for this, this solution. We won't bother you, but we'll be happy to call you as soon as the first difficulties arise if you can't access the corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179306	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179307	I thank the esteemed Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State with Associates, the SDSS Representatives' Club in the first debate welcomed the proposed amendments and amendments to the law and the proposed newspaper in order to strengthen the criminal protection of victims of violence. We have pointed out that the amendments to the law are positive, and that it is necessary to work on relationships in society in the first place, in the sense that no one can justify violence, whether it is family-oriented to a woman or to another relative or not. The criminal law is a material law and will not change the behavior of society, the thing is that any behavior, such behaviour, should react immediately and not only as a citizen, so the crucial role must be played by institutions, they must take all measures to prevent violence from being put forward, but also to stop when it occurs. We have pointed out that legislative changes are a good solution and that they point to moving forward, but not fast enough. The basis of previous analyses has shown that the lack of awareness and ignorance of violence is a major problem for our society since the number of applications is still very low. Yesterday, so on 10.12., we marked the International Day of Human Rights, and it is no renegade to remind that it was that day in '48. the signed UN General Declaration on Human Rights, which made freedom, security and equal rights for all people a universal standard worldwide. Why am I saying that? Because violence against women is, for example, still one of the most widespread forms of human rights violations, each, every 15 minutes one woman was abused, 17.5% of women experienced rape or attempted rape. These facts remind us that the universal values of the declaration have not yet become generally accepted values, and that they are not yet provided with effective institutional frameworks, so today, therefore, here we are today also recalling the ideals on which we have committed ourselves, and which are still one of the foundations of international community and the ideas of social progress. To return to the present time, in early 2019 we note a significant increase in calls from victims of violence that already exceeded the number from 2018 by mid-year. We attach growth to the fact that the topic of domestic and gender-related violence is still going through the media, although I will agree with my colleague Richembergh still insufficiently and that campaigns should surely be far more and far louder. Violence is not a private problem but a social problem, a family as such has the right to privacy, but when violence occurs within four walls it goes beyond those four walls and becomes a problem of society and concerns all of us. I believe that society must also come to terms with such situations and react and never ignore any form of violence. In this sense, of course, it is necessary in addition to such legislative proposals that are good and high-quality and systematic education in the education system, to sensitise the issue of violence against women, to raise awareness of the fact that violence against women and domestic violence is an unacceptable violation of human rights, and, as a society, we must react sharply and without exception to violent behaviour. In relation to the first text of the draft law adopted in the first reading, certain differences arised in the final proposal as a result of respecting the proposal and the observations made between the first and second readings, so to speak. Article 3 of the final proposal is amended as follows: In the 20th century, the Ministry's obligation to collect information on the application of the Penal Code. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 4 of the final proposal is amended as follows: 21st century 3rd by the Commission for the Monitoring and Promotion of the Working of the Body of Criminal and Violation Procedure and the enforcement of sanctions related to the protection against domestic violence to the application of the Law on Protection against Family Violence and Criminal Law. Furthermore, in Article 6 of the final proposal for a law, it is proposed to amend the level of the suspended penalty for the infringement referred to in Article 23. The law on protection against domestic violence by raising a special minimum to at least 3,000 kuna. I also welcome the envisaged entry into force of this law, which is therefore set at 1.1.2020 and, as I said, I am sorry that the proposal to expand the circle of persons to whom the Law applies against domestic violence and to intimate partners is not accepted. I am taking the opportunity to point out that the applicant has not intervened and the definition of close persons, which is necessary in order to ensure consistent implementation of the definition of domestic violence. That's what I mean when it comes to sanctioning violence among adolescence partners. Right now, it was an opportunity to legally regulate this area of intimate adolescent ties that I believe should be sanctioned as domestic violence, since it has all the characteristics of domestic violence because it happens amongst close individuals. Violence among young intimate partners can include both physical and sexual psychological abuse, stalking, control, coercion that can occur personally or through technology that today is highly developed, which affects the victim of this violence and puts it as particularly vulnerable precisely because of its age and maturity. The threat of young people, especially children who, even before their age, enter into informal intimate and partner relations that do not have the characteristics of the living community and in such relationships exist, become victims of violence and I still think that they should be intervened for, to this group. I've been thinking about investing either the amendment or not, but I've given up on that intention because this law is really a very good and quality law, and I'm sure the effects, that it will achieve the expected effects, I hope. And in fact, when I saw this story about preventing domestic violence as an out-of-the-way, I think it should be that way and that simply the figures that don't come in favor of us are a reminder that these things should be superseded questions. The SDSS representative club will support these three legislative proposals, which are united by this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179308	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Stjepan Curaj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179309	Thank you, dear Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues from, not to be overly repeated on behalf of the club in principle on these three laws and its purpose. So when we talk about the Penal Code or the Goals, so what we want to do here, we should always ask ourselves that in any legal change, and so on and so on to this where we actually want to strengthen criminal justice against domestic violence in the most fundamental part of why we are here today and why we are discussing this. That's a goal. What does that mean? This means we have to ask whether these amendments to the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Protection against Family Violence will bring about less occurrences of these crimes. It's a key question, no one can know that. Some changes in qualifications can certainly contribute to what I think simply in court practice, and certainly there is when we look at a new concept in defining the crime of rape, and then it says that every non-consensual sexual relationship and it is, and when there is no force or threat to life or a body raped or other person, it will be considered a criminal part of rape, so it is precisely the basis where the absence of consent where there has been no use of force. We've now had that graduation, so so far we've actually only had a criminal act of sexual intercourse without consent, it's now being erased and it's now becoming all the crime of rape. I believe and certainly it was in practice, the court that some doubts had changed the traits or the reduction of qualifications. So when the procedure was viewed, maybe he didn't have all the elements for the rape crime, so we're going to go to this milder form that has even lighter penalties, and so we can say that the epilogue was actually always the same. The person was raped, period, but either one without consent, one using force etc. and we are now equating with this.../incomprehensible/... it was actually the same thing. The result was the same. But what must be the meaning of everything, of course never in history, has proved that by increasing those dragon sentences, and we know by what it was named for, something has led to this drastically reducing the occurrence of that crime. Our goal here must be to increase our application, we must have prevention, education, so that victims are not thrown out of the feeling of shame or shame if they are victims, that persons and society as such stand absolutely behind them and of course they have their basis in the Penal Code, that's what we do here with other laws. So that must be the meaning, the protection, the prevening and the clear word. You whoever, don't let God experience it or experienced it, that person must get full criminal protection but not just her, but everything else seen by society as a whole. Now that's that big test, that's what we really need to do and we want to do it. Believe me, it's not just a question in Croatia, it's a question in the world, it's a lot of such acts stay somewhere on the side of someone's malt tomorrow subconscious in someone's intimacy because they don't want to talk, don't want to mention it and pretend like it wasn't and don't expose ourselves to our actions and everything that long-term court proceedings unfortunately bring with them, so that in the end it would have happened to whoever we had here said it wasn't and rape but it was a criminal act of sexual intercourse so that there were sentences less etc., etc. What's good, what's going on here is that to commit a crime, the threat is being extended and the act is being committed against a close person... age, serious physical mental disorder, pregnancy, and if the crime is against the people to whom the threat is committed out of hatred. Therefore, the concept of a close person is introduced in the case of a qualified form of criminal offence, etc., etc., but what should also be noted is that the prosecution for a criminal offence as already prescribed, if committed to a child is initiated by official duty, if it has been committed to a close person. What I would certainly like to say is that I have begun to commit serious crimes against sexual freedom to intervene here, that all qualified forms of the article present circumstances which make the rape crime more difficult and that the minimum penalty is increased from one year to three for the basic form, and for qualified or weighting from three to five, so that is what I was saying at the beginning and is making it more difficult for me to focus on a clear goal. Will that goal be fulfilled? That's what we need to see. We need to assess. But what's important is that we here today are clearly and loudly talking about these penalties that the public, that people are aware, that they know that they have protection that these persons will not, after doing that work, go out on the street the next day when they are convicted but will spend some time in prison and that society will look at them just as they are. What I mentioned and what was good and what was accepted and the proposal in the replica I also mentioned was the proposal that came from the Ministry of Education to extend the meaning of the expression of the official person and of the persons from the activities of social care and those from the activities of education and education doing the jobs and it is absolutely commendable. This also strengthens the role of our teachers, professors in society, so far it has not been. I said that, and we're going to think about it, or I'm going to personally look back at this new self-inflicted act of coercion towards a person who's doing public-interest jobs, because that's quite broadly stated. As far as the Criminal Procedure Act is concerned, very briefly. So in accordance with what has been announced, we have a new institute for temporary legal assistance of the defender on the burden of budgetary resources. Now as well as the arrester or suspect in taking a particular action in which he is involved. What's done here is the same in the favor of the person who's been arrested or the suspect is that, in the case of arrest, it's just enough of their statement that there's not enough resources to bear the costs of the defense, but there's still that question in view of all these defenses by lawyers who go under official duty, the way they're financed, paid, with which payment deadlines etc. I don't think anything has changed that much, and that's something that's usually being played out to those younger colleagues who are just getting into work, and that's the same question of quality of defense itself, and unfortunately, is someone who doesn't have the resources so hard it sounds like someone's learning on it about the defense itself, but that's a whole other part. What is good is that the newspaper about the appointed defender decides the judge of the investigation which will surely speed up and simplify the whole story. So far, the lawyer has been appointed by the President of the Court, and the basis of the request is decided by the State lawyer and by the President of the Council or by an individual judge. As for being unnecessaryly repeated, what I said is we give more authority and opportunities to the police, which doesn't always have to be good, it can always be misused, that repressive apparatus, and there we need to be very careful. I've asked the same in the Replica question when now that we're giving the police authority that emergency evidence stores can carry out an emergency evidence store of knowledge without an order from a state attorney, let's say to the office, which wouldn't require any expense, but can determine the necessary skills that are considered intended. There is a need to see what it will normally look like as regards the costs of the procedure itself, whether it enters the cost sheet and should be paid somewhere at the court level or be immediately paid by the MUP’s funds, and again in the file itself is later accounted for in the cost of the proceedings as well as everything else. There may be problems with the means provided, whether, if not, that possibility can be fully used if there is no means then they will not even be approved by an unsuspecting superior something for which there is no means or the practice will be to order anything that is estimated to be urgent, they will be placed in the file, and then those judicial witches de facto because they can only perform the art will again seek and do so in a way from the court. And as the court will set out there to approve these costs on burdens that they didn't actually order, there's actually this way in the process that there's a lot of, a lot of, a lot of, a way to get rid of it can be a lot of disagreements. What is good and would only end before the end, so what is being introduced is the possibility of reading, that is, the reproduction of the record of earlier witness statements, or the record or memo of the finding or opinion of the witches, if the witness or the expert has been examined in the presence of the parties. In translation, we have countless regrets, countless re-emergences, return to re-determination, supplement or however we are witnesses especially of some of these shouts and where it can be admitted that they do not have to re-prove what they did 5 years ago, and probably have forgotten something rather than simply if the condition here is fulfilled can accept it as evidence material and reading the record itself, which I think will contribute to a more expeditative and economical trial of the judiciary itself and everything in the final. And by the end of the Law on Protection against Family Violence, punishments are increasing, although I must say I haven't noticed that ratio between money and prison. We had five thousand kunas somewhere, 15 days, and now we have six thousand kunas and 30 days. Now what logic did it go by? I can't exactly say that, apart from the logic of encouraging payment instead of maintenance because it's ultimately cheaper and cheaper because we have a 50% or 100% higher sentence and, for example, 20% prison sentence in duration and 20% higher fine. So it is not proportionate to increase in any way that I only see that it is actually encouraged that those who have both money or whose means are not less able to pay and not do the prison penalty that they probably all choose because we can remember that once the day of prison was quite low and that people chose prison rather than fines, and it certainly does not go in favour, given that, in all reports, we have insufficient numbers of officials or capacities located in prison units compared to what is being imposed. So, certainly all of them intend where the purpose of punishment can be fulfilled in other ways than serving a prison sentence in that intended institution is something that they should absolutely seek even through money. Here I thank you for your attention and, of course, the HNS Club will support these proposed changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179310	Thank you. Before continuing the debate, I welcome the gallery of students and students, as well as professors and professors of the Economic and Commercial School of Ivan Domco from Vinkovac. Welcome and enjoy your stay at the Croatian Assembly. We move on to individual debates, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. [[Applause.]] Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here I am not going to repeat all the newspapers that bring these three laws but I want to highlight one satisfaction and I am sure that by making changes and supplementing these three laws we will do a lot when it comes to preventing domestic violence and violence in general. I participated in a conference a few days ago on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities where I had the opportunity to explain the newspaper of these three laws because the topic at that conference was violence. Of course, it was about people with disabilities because, as we know, I've said several times in this House that people with disabilities and then additional women with disabilities are three times more discriminated against than others. I must tell you that people have accepted this with enthusiasm because, as we know in the Law on protection against violence in the family of persons with disabilities, they are further apostrophysed and when violence is committed against them or in their presence, the penalties have been stricter yet, and now they will, therefore, be even greater and that is something that will further protect people with disabilities. Everyone there pointed out one very important thing that even these three laws could apply requires violence to be reported. The SOS phone that exists he is within the Union of Persons with Disabilities, I will not say additionally daily but I would say on a weekly basis there is an increasing number of reports of violence. And I have to tell you that not only women, they report not only women, but also men with disabilities. Therefore, since they know the situation, everyone was very happy with the changes and additions of these three laws because the protection of people with disabilities will still be something stronger and that is what gives people with disabilities one confidence in the system. I believe that, we have also pointed out there and here, and I point out one satisfaction that our social workers and persons in the education system will also get the status of an official because after the relentless events that we have already mentioned here, it is certainly necessary to protect them further and as you state secretaries have mentioned drivers, it is also necessary to protect them, because every day those who drive, therefore, who participate in public urban transport of any city because they participate daily, are exposed to dangers and participate in events where they are also involved which are certainly not pleasant and unions as you have said, but have written to us on several occasions to do something to protect themselves. Here I am pleased with these amendments to all three laws, and especially what is important, I would also like to say that it is important that the procedure, therefore, regarding the CAP, is that the procedure is faster. With these changes, you have proposed this, and I believe that we will really achieve what is important to all of us, which is to prevent violence and that we will be able to witness as little violence as possible throughout our country as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179312	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179313	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here are when we talk about many topics that are changing today, of course, that one of the topics that is related to domestic violence or to the problem that is very present in Croatian society and the problem is more unfortunately here even in the months when they are holidays, means we have a lot more applications in the months when they are holidayed, even about 60 days in all of Croatia, it shows you little and how our consciousness and society still fail to build up to the extent that we condemn this behavior, that it is as unacceptable as possible because when people and decide to report certain violence in the family, it is often taken for granted and not condemn it in the way that it should be. And even in the public space we have no number of situations, here we saw a few days ago at the City Hall of Zagreb di Mayor of the City of Zagreb calling for a representative that if she does not like the corrupt Advent, to throw herself into the Sava. And nobody alive, as he would say, has condemned neither in this assembly nor in the Croatian Parliament, and how, in essence, this is not about domestic violence but it promotes a culture of violence and conflict resolution in this case politically in a very ugly way and sends a very guilty message to the citizens of the Republic and the city of Zagreb about what is normal and what is abnormal behavior. So it turns out that when someone acts violently towards a woman or a man, it doesn't matter, that from the position of power or from the position of the person who manages things in the city of Zagreb, the question is, of course, how do they reflect on those who listen and watch and who create certain I would say to myself, the frame in which we live and, of course, it's not an accident that this is an attack on a woman, so unfortunately it's still quite expressed in Croatia that women are not protected as much as they should be from such violent behavior. The other thing we've been discussing about is the introduction of official status for social workers and teachers or who are in the educational and educational process and I agree with it, I said something about it and in the replica, we're talking about strengthening the status of those people or very difficult jobs that they do, unfortunately after the tragedy that happened this year in Slavonia where a social worker at their workplace is murdered and only then comes to the awareness that we need to protect certain professions and give them a stronger foothold in law, but now the question of what makes the difference is concrete when we talk about social workers, this is a question for our state secretary who represents the law here and I hope that they'll hear these words while I'm trying to draw his attention to the key so that the important work here is the difference between social workers in the social care centres and the social secretary that the health care institutions, meaning in the health care institutions that the medical care of the medical care, and in fact of the patient's the key business, and the key to the key business, the social care of the social care, and social care, and social care of the social care, As for increasing sanctions, I am absolutely inclined to have a whole series of crimes that are for greater condemnation and for greater punishment, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, and even when we have an adequate sentence, it is not applied in, in, in the right way, and often does not ultimately achieve its goal, which is to condemn unacceptable behavior and that the person who finally made it out of it is given a certain, certain lesson. We have a whole series of examples and the media of the last days where the people who have committed serious crimes are not to understand, but are, but are still in the papers and we see in the media that we simply do not have a proper result, but is the victim and, or the victim's family, are still still still still due to inadequate punishment and punishment, it's worth it, so we need to see how in practice justice is applied and whether ultimately we protect victims, which unfortunately quite often after these crimes, here's how much we can see, I said there have been several cases in the media in the past days, eventually the victim turns out to be even more in a bigger problem than the one who has committed a certain crime or violence, violence against the victim, whether it was sexual or, or, or violent behaviour of some other form, I am not stressing it. So on this side, I would like us as a society with our example to show and especially those who are on responsible duties to show by their example, to show the condemnation of such behaviour, unfortunately I said, there is a whole series of people who promote violent behavior and who are accepted as pillars and, and, and society and coalitions in power, and it should not be, but it is so, probably the government is sweet, and on this side is hard to give up the violent behavior of a mayor, but this one until we do so, until it is absolutely unacceptable, while we have to apply it, absolutely, but some things are so obvious that we should condemn this in the mayoral places already because at the end of this situation, when all of these people who decide regardless of this, someone will now say that the presumplication of innocence to the public is important, and therefore, the fact that some things are so obvious that they should be in advance because, at the end, when they all this is expensive, if they are divided into a period, the issue of a period, the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that they are relevant and the fact that they can be true of the fact that they can be true of the fact that they can be true of the truth and the truth and therefore, the truth, the fact that they can be true of the fact that they can be true that they can be true of the truth and therefore be true of the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179314	Thank you. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179315	I thank the Honorable Vice President, so here's the Family Law, which in some ways encourages domestic abuse. The article of the law on alimony and the time when it is necessary to pay is said that only after three consecutive non-payments can the welfare centre be initiated. So the HSS has requested an amendment to this law for 30 days, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has rejected this amendment, thus allowing domestic abuse to continue as one who is obliged to pay the alimony i.e. Retention of the child does not do so, if he does not regularly do not have the opportunity to force him until he executes those three consecutive unpaids, and three consecutive unpaid alimonys only after that, and if, between that, he pays a little something, it counts to him as if he paid something, what a problem it is, here's a Telegram article in which Tudjman's son is owed 130.000,00 kn alimony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179316	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179317	Thank you very much. My colleague Lenart, I absolutely agree with your proposal, and I can't imagine the situation in which they are, I would say now in most cases of women, but there are probably men who are in such a situation, but let's say one parent either, whether a man or woman who has stayed with children and three months doesn't get any support from, from a former spouse to help with a child, so it's one, one of the most irresponsible ways of being in our society when you're irresponsible to your own family or your own children, and three months is really inappropriately long, so at these times when people live from month to month, from day to day, three months wait for anything to start, I think it's too long, and I absolutely think it should be a lot earlier because if I can punish you for the phone and, and, and make an execution in a shorter period, then I think, in this case it should also be. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179318	The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179319	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I'm, I don't think anyone will agree with you that healthcare professionals deserve special protection, is the goal of that, which is actually that special protection? Today, we have an article in the Penal Code. In 315, which refers to the attack on the official person of 3rd, in fact 315, such a decadently says coercion towards a healthcare professional and is precisely stated which provisions are and which protection is provided to them, so it already exists specifically listed as a health care worker. Now what's the difference between the opinion of a health care professional and the level of responsibility that's at stake and I agree that it might be discussed, but it should be let to see whether they want it or not. Today, for the sake of the public, I would like to say, absolutely any coercion and any form of coercion towards a healthcare professional is a criminal offence and a penalty in the Penal Code has been prevented, so it exists purely for the protection and for the sake of public information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179320	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179321	Thank you very much, I've set a concrete example here. I can tell you that social workers would like it in health care institutions, meaning the argument I've heard before that they don't want, I tell you that they want, especially because it's a job that's very similar if not the same in most segments of what social workers do in welfare centres and have supervision, they have, as I would say, jobs, help people out of hospital treatment, so their work doesn't end with treatment like when they write therapy, diagnosis and there ends, social workers live with their patients in their private lives, so work is identical to those in social care centres and, and there's a lot of contacts and things that aren't related exclusively to the hospital and they would like to do so and now I say that the minister or secretary of state hears it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179322	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179323	Dear colleague Maras, you have well apostrophed the need not only to protect the victims of domestic violence but also outside the family, as well as the need to prevent the same. The alarming fact is actually, I don't know if you knew him, that in fact, one of the key forms of domestic violence was sexual, sexual violence and the only research conducted in the Republic of 2005. It actually shows that as many as 17.5 women were exposed to rape, victims of rape or attempted rape, but even 95% of women never attempted rape or rape, and also 95% never actually told anyone. Now those who reported rape were, in fact, quite discouraged during the course of the procedure, longevity. and inefficient. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179324	Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179325	Thank you very much, and in particular, you said 95% of the entire population, but married is probably that percentage, measured by those who report such violent behavior in, in, in the circle of the family. And what I want to point out here once again is that thousands and thousands of women who now look at us or listen to these holidays welcome not with happiness and joy because I said that during the holidays the number of reports of violent behavior and the number of violence for a million reasons does not, but which I do not have to elaborate, increases, so during the holidays we have to have 30 to 40% more applications for domestic violence than it is during the days when there is no holidays, so we have to be absolutely aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179326	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179327	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, this united package of three laws, the Law of, on protection against domestic violence, the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act will enter into force on 1 January 2020 in order for all of these, these coordination procedures to be carried out in a timely manner. What is important is to say, and it has already been pointed out, so I will be very summarised, the protection of teachers and teachers and obtaining the status of an official for teachers, teachers, therefore and social workers is particularly important because a new offence is being introduced, and a new offence has been coerced against, among other things, the person who performs matters of public interest or in the public service, so these three listed categories and what is important to say about the act of force towards such persons, so to the teacher, teacher or social worker, or only threats to those new officials, so in carrying out their work, the prison sentence is possible up to 3 years, and if that official person, therefore, the teacher or social worker, in the course of their work, is put in a position to threaten them with either a weapon or a tool or a death threat, then the sentence is up to 5 years in prison. That's very important to emphasize. Personally, I welcome the tightening of punishment for some crimes, of course, and for some other but above all, I welcome the tightening of the punishment for the violation of the child's rights and I welcome the tightening of penalties for the crimes of domestic violence when a serious physical injury has been inflicted against a close person or a physical injury to a close person, but I also welcome the more special maximum punishments for fornication. For example, in domestic violence in the future, the minimum sentence will be 1 year in prison and so far has been 3 months. The crime is also more severe, so now the so-called the state of the long-term threat and we often witness cases of women particularly suffering from long-term abuse and it has lasted for years. So this category is now being introduced, or the category introduced before, but now counts on the state of long-term suffering at the time of the verdict. What is important to say is to speed up the criminal proceedings in order to prevent manipulation and delay the proceedings which we have also testified that the case is a common case in court practice unfortunately. These three laws in practice, therefore briefly, lead to faster and better treatment and protection. And what is important is to say that this package of three laws is the result of an eight-month agreement between the task force and inter-resor cooperation. Family abusers won't be out in three months. from prison, as well as from rape, the minimum penalty increases by six months. 1 year in prison while the maximum sentence remains 5 years, 3 to 10 years in case that rape is committed using the threat of death. Also since 1. 1. In 2020, we should also enable electronic surveillance, i.e. electronic bracelets because they have made the necessary assumptions that this is being introduced and therefore when it comes to the prison of investigation. In addition to extending the concept to the official person teacher, teacher, social worker and harsher penalties, which is a Susus, the most important taste of these amendments to the law, the secretary of state mentioned other changes to the law, I would add the acceleration of the criminal procedure because we see, we see, lead slowly and most often go slower and then we have a problem, so there have been 4 or 5 administrative discharges here to speed up the proceedings and what is also important to say, there has been a distinction between a criminal and a criminal offence and we know that the incidents and tragic events needed to do so because the case-law has shown that this is extremely necessary. What is also important to say through the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Social Policy, therefore additional 70 million kuna has been secured for the implementation of this law, as well as the work of a shelter for women victims of violence through the amount that will be paid and by the end of the year has been promised by the government that there will be new 6 safe houses in those counties that do not have them, so that the work will be completed and the assumptions that civil associations have asked for. So this is really a series of positive regulations but also operational and financial improvements. What should also be welcomed is further alignment with the Directive on the prevention of sexual abuse and exploitation of children, Art. 161., 163., 164., but when we talk about an amended definition of so-called Children's pornography, we have a personal remark here, and I have to point it out. So, the syntagma of child pornography is inappropriate. And we need to talk about materials with sexual abuse of children, not child pornography, which he warned at a conference and the Centre for Missing and Abused Children who operate at the Centre for Safer Internet. So children do not participate in child pornography, children are sexually abused and this should be clearly distinguished and made a distinction. Why doesn't that difference still exist, I answer that question I don't know, it needs to be changed because it doesn't only change the Semantic context but in that way if we use a syntagm of child pornography instead of material with sexual abuse of children, it eases this crime and it simply isn't true, it should be changed in some subsequent turn of amendments to the law. The biggest problem that has yet to be solved and is not covered by these changes because I suppose a good part of European countries have not decided how to solve this problem, so I will take advantage of the opportunity to point out that at this point, minors can be filmed together in explicit positions and sexual relations and publish it on the Internet and our legislation still does not have that category, which is partly and justifiable because the Internet trends are developing at an unusually gunned rate and most of the European countries have not yet reached that problem. So they haven't changed their legislation yet but this is not only a European but also a global problem, these teenagers today at that vulnerable age don't think about their own actions and then when they're adults, these online materials that they've published themselves at a time maybe both alcoholised and some other thoughtless moment will remain permanent in that internet space. It's something to think about in the next round of amendments to the law because it's a problem that becomes a world wide DVD, which they would say around the world to recognize, and we have to solve it as soon as possible. Otherwise, as I said, this package of three amendments to the law brings a series of positive improvements, operational, financial and above all legislative ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179328	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179329	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Irena, I hope so, I'd like to refer that this definition of an official person is important to you, but I'd like to mention to you, here's a classic example, and I think everyone understands that. Let's just say, what I'm asking is that social workers in institutions, in hospitals, in health care are recognised the same status because, for example, there are people with a license who can perform and monitor as the social care center staff do. For example, some supervision in the family may also work for a person who is employed in the hospital, and does not have the same status as will now have a social worker who works at the SZSS. So I'm just looking and asking for the same jobs with the same status. So it's amazing that the paradox is now, say, a social worker from the hospital when he's under surveillance he won't be in the same situation as the persons involved in the CZSS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179330	Thank you. Answer, colleagues of Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179331	Thank you very much, colleague Maras. It is not good to minorise the whole range of amendments to the law because you well know that the SDP government had the opportunity to bring some similar, similar improvements and similar beauty to the amendments to the law so it failed to do so. So you need to look at this encouraging, that it's something that's the whole beauty of changing the three laws, plus what's been the previous debate, to look objectively, not subjectively and not ask how our people say, hair in the egg because some of the next changes in the law will probably include the wishes of those who are not now involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179332	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179333	Thank you very much, dear colleagues of Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. You noted that the Republic of Croatia will provide room for six more missing shelters, we know that there are six counties in which there are no shelters for women victims of violence. Somewhere only counselling sites that operate within some other systems, however, what we had the opportunity to hear at the the thematic session of the Committee on Gender Equality is that there is a serious danger and that we should be careful, given that we have given our goal by the end of 2019 to provide temporary solutions in these 6 counties, but it is especially the emphasis of the terrain that there are some areas that are not entirely adequate and that we must pay particular attention not to the fact that these temporary solutions would not become or remain permanent solutions. Just that appeal here, let the government and we here remember and work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179334	Thank you. Answer, colleague of Petriyevcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179335	Dear colleagues, Glasovac, in a conversation with the prosecutor for gender equality that you state, ma'am. Vishni Ljubicic has crystallized the solution. So, the government has provided 70 million kunas to ensure the work of shelters for women victims of violence, but what is appealed by the lawyer for gender equality with which I have discussed the topic is the involvement of local authorities, local authorities, so the counties are insufficiently involved and we cannot expect what is said to be Colloquial, the central state solves all local problems. Therefore, it is expected that the initiative and initiative of all stakeholders to include the counties on this subject and to solve this case and one or five cases that we have apostrophe as important, and the central state I think has so far been involved through this package legislatively and through other activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179336	Thank you. Next debate, respected counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179337	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I'm relatively rarely reporting for individual debates. I find it extremely important, and I think that, in fact, only in a way that we can always speak, to say from day to day, from hour, about this topic from all positions, and especially from the possibility of this position that we have as a legislative body, that is, as parliamentary representatives, is one of the opportunities for us to convey our views to the public and citizens about this issue and to try everything we say to influence us to be a society with zero tolerance to violence. What has already been said several times and highlighted in debates and through clubs, and even now through individual debates, I will not, I will try not to repeat myself, but what I think should be reiterated again and always emphasized from the position of the parliamentary representative is that nobody should suffer violence, any kind of violence on this subject. In this case, we're talking about domestic violence and that's where it's supposed to be. It means that we, as a legislative body and individually as parliamentary representatives, need to stand behind the fact that we have zero tolerance for violence and that we need to do everything and do everything to make it so. This proposal, this package of laws, goes in this direction to take these steps that should go towards eradicating violence, i.e. bringing violence to a minimum. However, as family violence is mentioned somewhere in the first sentence when it is spoken of, it is a sensitive subject, and as a sensitive subject, it often stays on the other side of the public, meaning in some dark hidden side, and in fact we do not have quite true or we cannot argue that we have quite true and accurate information about how much this violence is happening in the family, and here I see a big problem, meaning the problem of a society that is unable to face and speak the truth about itself, nor do we adequately oppose that in order for solutions and shifts to still be better at some point in time. We are simply witnessing the fact that all this information that we have about violence in general, and about domestic violence, is getting worse, so that as a club, I will personally welcome all the suggestions that are going in the direction of trying to reduce domestic violence, but I also don't think that we should consider violence a sensitive topic that, because of our sensitivity, will remain somewhere in some secret or in some basement family or in some family attic because simply that is not the subject that we want to share with anyone outside of the most, most, the inner circle that participates in that issue, or in that problem, it's not good. Unfortunately, as a society and through institutions, but also through the community, it means where we live, in the neighborhood, in the neighborhood, we did not adequately encourage the solving of this problem, or we did not encourage the citizens to report or witness violence and to try their own personal examples to point out that problem and the problem to the light of day means in that nearest environment. Why? Because it seems that by witnessing inadequate or inadequate institution behaviour, but also by a community that often condemns victims, rather than violent, it is considered that reporting violence, intervention because of violence, is something that doesn't make much sense. We as a society have to stand up to it, and as a society, we have to say a lot if we want our data and indicators to be significantly better than we are now, and we don't know exactly what they are, or I guess they're much worse than what we have in statistics. Of course, the consequences of violence are far-reaching in families, which unfortunately have a significant impact on children in the family, and having an impact on children means that they generate the perspective of new violent behaviors because unfortunately children in adulthood, maturation, are usually followed by examples of behavior, meaning if there is abuse whether it comes from a mother or from a father or is mutually conditioned, it is often passed on to children as a form of so-called. normal or normal behavior, and then, of course, in some future life of these children as adults, they will most likely cause a new violent behavior or certain syndromes that will drag through life as a natural difficulty that is difficult to correct, which unfortunately has a significant impact on the quality of life and individuality, but also on its nearest environment. Here, I actually just wanted to highlight that problem in principle no, not get this one into detail. What I'm a little bit into is what I came across a few years ago in collaboration with the Bavarians talking about this same interdisciplinaryly, Bavaria as the federal state in Germany is one of the most successful in the fight against domestic violence, but usually with all forms of violence and there are no big differences when you read the presentations of their experts and our experts from all of these areas, the areas of which today is the topic, means the law and the judiciary and the MIP and social care, meaning very similar to some institutional solutions, but what seems to be, it is not, but it is a big difference that the Germans who the Germans are carrying out all the laws, that they do not make any difference, and that, of course, they have much better results, or an example of most European countries in solving these problems. So we welcome all the progress and I personally made in these laws, but let's finally decide as a society that, not only as a government, not only as a legislator, but as a society, as a community, that we have zero tolerance for violence and that we all act this way, means that we start by ourselves, that when we see violence in our environment that we are able to report it, that we are able to help the victim, and not close our eyes and go beyond what seems the most common case, therefore it is the assumption that in fact there is a whole dark list of victims of violence that have never been recorded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179338	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Maria Jelkovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179339	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, what you have said in the final part of your debate regarding the prescribed institutes in this whole set of laws that are similar in essence to our legislation and in the legislation of other states, but the effects are different, I agree with you here and I think that what we must certainly pay more attention to is in the education of our professional staffs and in the centres of social care that first meet with the victim who comes to address for help and in, and the police who first face the application as well, so that we, I do not think that greater coordination between all the elements of the system that meet with the victim, and also with the bully must be better, we must have better educated personnel to be more efficient, not just to prescribe the law, we need to create a more efficient system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179340	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Turina Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179341	Well, I think that through my debate, I told my colleagues exactly that as a society we have to create conditions, so it's not possible only through and through laws, so there should be a significant investment in prevention and, even I would say in some way through a certain kind of propaganda, but I'm just going to add it to safe houses, I think that's where it was mentioned in the debate, so this safe house is so-called. Necessarily evil all over the system and this is not the place that solves our problem, the community in general must solve the problem professionally, interdisciplinaryly, but starting from each individual and his attitude towards violence, so we must build a modern, responsible society, a society that says no, not violence, and that is the way and way to, that these black figures come into acceptable frames.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179342	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague of Snow White Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179343	Thank you, Vice President HS, distinguished state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, so here's the theme of domestic violence, about how our legal system treats him by watching the work of courts often seems to me that formalism has... In essence and sense, and that sometimes courts work like they're not there because of the citizens, but that it's just the opposite as if citizens exist because the courts work. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] All citizens should be protected from any kind of violence, especially the most vulnerable, and therefore a swift and effective law enforcement and the effectiveness of institutions in charge of solving such problems is required. I believe that abused persons even after being sheltered into a safe house are underprotected even though they lose contact with violence there is an injustice of insufficiently enforceable laws, unfortunately. Since there are also several names of safe houses, so are the quality of accommodation and supervision. The weekend surveillance doesn't exist at all in some houses, there's no surveillance after 19 hours, it should be kept in mind that abuse people can't mentally recover without talking about tires, losing all rights, people in such houses don't have the right to put children in kindergarten, they don't even have the right to vote, they don't have enough funds for psychological help they need. The saddest fact is that when a abused person comes into the house, he knows in a few days how much time he can spend in that house, rarely staying longer than six months. Before leaving the house, the same person must find an apartment and a job without any financial help. Although the law stipulates that in such situations they must be taken care of most urgently in urban and municipal housings, this does not happen unless it is managed to take away children who go to the welfare center while the mother is left to herself again. Often, the victim and the bully are equated, the police do not determine who is the primary perpetrator in the domestic violence situation, so they report one and the other, so there is no fundamental difference, which is what experts from Europe have found when they analyzed the situation in the Republic of Croatia. After the victim is bold and reports violence by law, such procedures should go into haste procedures, but often this does not happen, so such procedures go regularly, not in a hasty way, thus putting the victim in danger again. It is also very important, perhaps most important that when reporting a abused person can be given the same minute if the victim is in a crisis situation to obtain accommodation without a social care center manual. There's been an incredible failure, e.g. to kill a partner even though he had a restraining order that was, of course, violated until he killed her, these are the problems of law enforcement, and that's what needs to be done. We advocate much more repressive law enforcement in such cases. Back to 2.G. We had 18 victims who tragically ended up under such circumstances, it's too large a number, too critical, and it points to the problem of ineffectiveness of the institutions. Such persons, victims of violence, must be provided immediately after reporting violence for persons and children, such a person especially in the first months when he is relapsed, when a relapse is most common by abuse, must have 24 hour protection, a professional team trained for such persons must also be available for 24 hours in the first months, SOS phone must be available 24 hours a day, and also publicly announced. It is also very important to provide quality care for children to get through such experience as easily as possible, and they must have a secure ride to kindergarten. Victims after a certain time must be offered the possibility of employment when they are still at home, after leaving the house by a hasty procedure to provide accommodation and offer financial assistance because such persons have nowhere to go after a safe house and if we do not help them then we have actually done nothing and the knowledge that I have, support for inclusion in the labour market and accommodation is the most important factor when we meet real life conditions again. Judge, for example. will not ask the question, the court has no need to question, just like the police officers, which has been happening for the past few years, will generally not ask whether violence has been happening in someone's house continuously or not, but only deals with a concrete event for which a misapplication has been filed. Victims often volunteer to withdraw their report of violence because either their environment or their officials convince them that it is better to give up the court proceedings immediately at the outset. The violence in the family is a part of the media, usually when there is a tragedy by a domestic bully, but it always turns out that the thugs have already been recorded and convicted, it actually means that the system doesn't follow their behavior at all. We believe that the problem with our laws is not only those who deal with domestic violence because they suffer from hypernormity or are never clear to the end. The system treats both the victim and the perpetrator when there's an escalation of violence, and literally the situation is that the victim is clearly beaten for reporting as well as the one who beat her up. How is such a thing even possible? If things are so unfairly placed at the very beginning, how can the victim of violence later prove that violence was committed against her? Why does court practice not deal with the causes of violence? Violence in families and intimate relationships has so many negative consequences that it is actually a real challenge to describe and fully understand their long-term impact on various domains of human functioning. The most direct consequence is fear that becomes chronic, long-lasting, and restrictive. Violence in the family is one of the fundamental violations of human rights, there are various forms of domestic violence, physical, psychological, economic, neglect, but each of them has its own weight because it leaves profound consequences on the person whose violence is happening, children are unfortunately the most vulnerable because they are the most sensitive and most dependent often on the perpetrator of violence. The humanistic level from which we move is man, and freedom from discrimination and abuse belongs to the place before all other human rights precisely because the consequences of its violation have always inhumane and far-reaching consequences, in its own nature any discrimination itself always inevitably produces mass and systematic violation of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179344	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected colleague of Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179345	My colleagues, I don't know who wrote you that individual debate you just read, did you write or someone else, but you don't deal with true and accurate information. Part of what you have read as a problem has been solved by the previous amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which I had on behalf of the HDZ Club, and one part has been resolved even by these amendments to the law. And as for safe houses, so you're saying against the fact that they're needed, which is why the resolution bodies, the civil society and the victims who are much more dedicated to this problem disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179346	Thank you. My colleague Sabolek's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179347	Thank you, so I wrote all of this from the knowledge of the victims themselves, and I tried to explain more visually how they feel and what they're going through. No one is against safe houses, but only if not all houses aren't the same, as you would say, they don't have the same conditions, they should work on it, and what matters most is that when the victim gets out of that house, then she actually needs the most help to get on her feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179348	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179349	Thank you, dear Vice President. Just briefly what I have announced, I would like to draw attention or perhaps to a little problem with one change and supplement here specifically regarding art. 315. and the introduction of a new paragraph 316.b or Article 316. 315.b. which we introduce here jobs and persons, persons who perform public-interest jobs. Now, what exactly is that? Is it public interest to have a national media house, HRT that provides information... ? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we all agree that. Do the people who work for this house carry out public interest, do jobs for the purpose of public interest? By definition, yes. Does that mean if I stop the incasator from entering my home and injure my right to the inalienability of the home, did I commit the crime in the article of this law? I don't know. Public interest is public transport, so if I prevent a person from performing public affairs, public interest, I'm making a mark of this crime, does preventing the business of a controller or a conductor fall under public interest or public society interest? I don't know, interpretation is all. So, perhaps we should approach a broader, wider definition or a general definition of business of public interest is business here, as the public service officer said in performing public service is clear to me, but this may be that the local self-government unit prescribes a certain public interest which may be in conflict with the private interest or protect private property, I am not talking here about expropriation of certain such things which, I speak in the general interest, but whether when a particular public body prescribes a particular or says or puts or sets certain persons to implement so-called. the public interest as to whether the characteristics of this criminal offence have been met immediately and whether or not those persons who carry out those tasks have had public authority at all, but who work in the public interest fall within the meaning of the description of the persons involved in the conduct of matters of public interest. So, when that public interest comes into conflict with the private one, what do we do? How do you put it there? I think it's a kind of conflict. I think that we should maybe go to the definition that a person means that when a person is prevented from doing business of public interest for, means actually for which they use more people in their nature whether they go in such a way of a broader definition or not, we don't know because this, I'm just afraid there isn't some pre-extensive interpretation or that we shut down or not to include it directly, and then in some interpretation, it won't be classified whether a driver in public transport is doing a job of public interest, and a controller or a conductor is not because he's doing a payment that's not in a narrow form of public interest, but in the interest of that society that has a financial interest, and by the way he's doing a job of public interest or is. I don't know. This definition doesn't say that, we didn't specifically define it in the article, or in terms, so I'm interested in it, it's an example of pure media, so we can say the interest of the media, the interest of the public. Is public interest the same as public interest? The interpretations are all sorts of things. Whether preventing a person from performing as a journalist is something that is in the public interest or we can interpret out of public interest, and we have had such case-laws for and unauthorized shootings that were judged to be made in the public interest, that they were then accepted as evidence in criminal proceedings, quite broadly. Is that when you stop, you don't give, you don't allow yourself to commit a crime mark? Here, this is what I really want to do with the goal of a little bit of trouble, whether to come up with a solution, whether to make the promoter in any of his own amendments or by putting up with his own to just a little bit more attention, I think it would be a good thing to protect all the people who work in the public interest, but also to protect that it would not also be misused or come to an end of some legal uncertainty. So that, I think it might require a broader definition or a general or more precise, however, to know exactly what they are, what they are, what people are doing jobs of public interest. Which could be said for them that this is understood because here, for example, whether the media, whether the HRT in the ultimate line, the incasators, if they're doing a job of public interest, and we know it's a public media facility. Does it mean if I don't let him into my home, whether I'm coerced or by any means by the mark of this crime, which is directly contrary to any other law? I don't know. Whether we're in college or not, there's an open question, so I'm asking you to simply read it either through the amendment or through the final exposure to explain it more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179350	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleagues of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am already in the name of the club and my colleague, Peja Grbin and I, we have supported, in fact, the good aspects of these laws in terms of tightening the punishment for the violent people and the stronger message of the state towards all those who, by their violent behavior, want to be accounted for in principle with weaker ones, is very often done in a number of cases of labour-related violence, means against women, where victims and children are often and very powerfully and through this law we are actually in favour of minimal tolerance for human rights violations, and we will all agree that in fact this form of violence against women and violence in the family is a violation of one of the fundamentals of human rights. In this way, the amendments to the legislative framework through these 3 laws, and even that part of the Law on Juvenile Courts, which, of course, rests in the system on and on this issue. We can say that we are moving forward with some recommendations and international committees that observe the Republic of Croatia as well as all EU member states in the fight against violence against women. That committee was doing some monitoring. In 2015, he also gave us some recommendations, such as speeding up the process of signing the EU Council Convention in the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, as we have finally done. He also gave guidance on improving the legislative framework that we have done in a large part through a package of these laws, however, for us to talk about the systematic fight against violence against women, and then we need to work on some more elements in the family. I am afraid this legislative framework will not be enough for us as a state to say, okay, now we have made a strong advance in the fight against violence. He wants, this was one of, as I would say, the judiciary is always a certain cancer wound in Croatian society in all segments because it often gets the impression that other institutions, social care centres, police, do their part of the job, and that it gets caught up in justice somewhere, which is because of the slowness of the proceedings, which is because of the sentences that are low, and then they dissuade the public, which is because of the failure, or because of some liberating judgments in the case of domestic violence, which is also dissuading the public and there is also creating an atmosphere, of course, dissatisfaction where society, and in Croatia, we have a chance to see then, culminate with some civil initiatives, such as the last initiative Save me, which is legitimate, which is positive, however, is nothing new. The messages she channeled or communicated to the Save Me initiative are messages that have been sent for years by certain parts of the civil sector, experts dealing with these areas. But unfortunately, what they say is there is something good, through some terrible examples that, the violence that poisoned Croatia's space, and I don't think that they should have been written about them, but they were horrified by the Croatian space, so only after that initiative did we save me, although on October 1st of last year, we actually came into force the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection against Women and Violence in the Family where we committed ourselves to a certain number of places in shelters for women victims of violence and their families we quickly came to the action plan to ensure by the end of 2019 that by the end of 2019, we had no shelter for women victims of violence until now, let's say that we would do at least this temporary solutions that we should grow into some concrete and more permanent solutions tomorrow. In doing so, I think of solutions that, meaning shelters for women can't be some kind of scavengers, they can't be not only physically inadequate spaces inaccessible to people with disabilities who are also women victims of violence or children but they must be meaning spaces and places, therefore spaces, and I mean not only walls but places where women will be given all adequate support. So we need to make sure that they are adequately equipped, not only in material but also in the other sense of an expert who will provide a woman with all the necessary psychological, psychosocial and other help in these difficult moments where she is actually looking for her new beginning away from her home because she is also forced to leave home. So it's not a bully who, in a lot of cases, is moving away, but it's she who, with a kid, barefoot, without anything, maybe we're with the documents going to some uncertain new beginning, into some battle of dignity, and it sure as hell isn't easy for her. It's not easy for her because she's devastated mentally, she's destroyed physically, so she's also been committed psychologically, possibly physically, as well. There must be a traumatic application procedure, while all this ultimately does not result in a rightful verdict and we all know what it is to us who do not have these difficult circumstances how often it is to make a decision of a new beginning, whether it is a change of business, whether it is a change of place of residence. Even if you don't have children, those are very difficult life decisions, for every man, they're not easy. The man is valid, the man is looking at the pluses, the minuses, it's very hard to get out of the comfort zone, making decisions about certain steps. And imagine what it's like to make decisions like that where a woman doesn't even live in a comfort zone, we can't even talk about comfort zones where she practically changes her whole life. And here we as a state have to do everything necessary with these amendments to the legislative framework to see how it means to ensure better coordination of all institutions, so there is not only the judiciary, there are police and welfare centres and employment institutions. Because women victims of violence, according to statistics, are most often this violence that is exposed to physical, or mental and physical but cause, the root of any violence, not every, but a lot of the violence lies in the economic addiction or independence of a woman who, in that case, is very difficult to decide for certain steps, to abandon such toxic relationships, toxic environments precisely because there is nowhere to go, there is nothing, there is nowhere to go. What's she gonna start with? So in this part of the victims, we can't exclude both the recommendations of the Istanbul Convention and our National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence, which is valid from 2017 to 2022, so we can't rule out Croatia's employment institutions and work on ensuring that women victims are not only protected from what we can do, the criminal, as it's already called, now they can't remember exactly, you know what I mean, compensation in a financial nature which is also very often not consummated, and it's a very narrow way in which they can actually get that fee in exactly specific cases, but it needs to be ensured that these people are educated and that they are allowed to, when they come to themselves, or to enter the labour market and what kind of economic independence. Of course, in the very process of these struggles to prove that women are victims of violence, especially to be careful that they do not experience secondary victimization of women or children, and I do not only think about institutions, I also think about the media, I also think about the media. Likewise, when we talk about women's shelters, it's the ministry that took over, it's the state that took the coordination of commitments from so-called. Istanbul Conventions, Council of Europe Conventions. But she won't, and there's a true colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vukasanovic in one part when she says we can't do it without local communities, but we can't even transfer it to the local communities alone. State plus local communities. According to one study, say when we talk about women's shelters, I don't have much space, so women's shelters in the local self-government budgets in 2015 amounted to between 0.01 and 0.88% of the county, 0.01 and 0.18%. There is the brightest example of the city of Zagreb but if we exclude it because it is in a completely different position than the rest of the units of regional self-government. Osijek, Osijek, for example, is a bright example of a county that stands out a lot for shelters If you can, Osijek-Baranja can do some other county. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179352	Replica's esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179353	Thank you very much, colleague Voter. Here I'll give you a chance to even elaborate a little bit more on the separation for shelters and safe houses that we certainly don't support in Croatia financially enough, I think that this should even be arranged through some legal solutions, given that the difference is huge, you said 0.01 from budget to 0.18 maximum means that it is 18,18 times someone separates less than, and it simply needs to be unified, so that kind of standard we have to have throughout the Republic, so I'm not saying that in Zagreb there's no need for us to still have more opportunities and unfortunately we'd be filled in and, and, and women would have a need yet to report, but here you tell me about So that you can regulate what you think would be [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] The optimal solution? [[Intruder: Answer...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179354	...responsible colleague of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179355	Yes, 18 times less singles out someone else, but means the maximum investment in shelters by the county at this point is less than 1% and those brightest examples stand out most means 0.18,18%. There we will have to determine ourselves in some way, Zagreb is in another, in another position, others manage, the Civil Society Associations establish their shelters, Caritas jumps there, very rare examples like the City of Zagreb where it can stand behind shelter or not specifically that shelter and finance, but we will have to find some way that the state, we have 70 million Euros available from the ISF to equip existing and open new shelters, so there is one part of the state through the ISF funds to withdraw, part of perhaps from the central budget, but part of it will have to be taken over by local and regional self-government units and not only will the county, so yes, in these county shelters come women from all over the county and perhaps from some other counties and there we have to be sensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179356	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Honored Secretary of State Juro Martinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179357	Thank you, Vice-President HS, honourable MPs and MPs, in this final brief address in the first order, I would like to say that the Government has decided to accept the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives, three shorts, it would be said, a technical amendment and we accept them. And as for these laws that have been discussed today, I can thank all those who have contributed to their discussions to our efforts to ensure that this material, criminal matter and procedural matter, as well as the one that is in breach of quality, and that, more functionally in the direction of the single common objective, I hope that the common goal of protecting social values that we protect by breaking and criminal law is as effective as possible by sending a message through material, through material laws, what is the reaction of society to those who violate social norms in such a way that other ways of social protection are not effective, that it must be accessed by the ultimate, and the ultimate way of protecting social values is a criminal and criminal regulation. We have sent a message by amendments that as a society we do not tolerate violence, we have sent a message that we are more powerfully protecting some of the social values affected by these material norms that we have changed these amendments and amendments to the Law on Protection of Family and Criminal Law, and by changes in the procedural sphere, we have made an effort to make the Law on Criminal Procedure as a fundamental procedural law that defines the tools that parties may, sometimes, be used, that is to say, the court, the prosecution and the defence, so that they are used in one functional way so that it is a fundamental, key role of the Law on Criminal Rights and the defendants, and that no one who is innocent is going to be convicted is adequate and adequate punishment, of course by respecting all standards which, as a member of the EU, must be provided through the prisming of human rights and defendants. We tried to make the material regulations of the criminal sphere such that the sanctions we had provided were dissuasive for potential perpetrators, to be warning, we tried to make the procedural tools so that the bodies that reveal the criminal offences were effective and that their reactions were dissuasive, of course it was desirable that, in the process of handling and the courts, and the state's attorneys and that their reactions would be swift, and then, fast and just, on the law, they would be founded and thus they would be dissuasive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179358	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote on these points when the conditions come to pass. We move on to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z. No. 775. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Mr. Stjepan Curaj. I ask Secretary of State Juru Martinovic to be shown about the amendment submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179360	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. This is where MP Curaj had had me say good intentions and a desire to explain no new institute, so the Institute of Public Interest, where we in particular by one new criminal act amending this Penal Code in this procedure wanted to protect more strongly persons who were performing matters of public interest. We do not believe that this amendment would make any contribution to a clearer and more precise norm, since the Institute, the expression of public interest already exists in the Criminal Law in two articles and so far the Penal Code has not had legislators, so the legislators did not have to define this term specifically because it has already become some standard in which judges are very good at dealing with themselves and in concrete situations are clearly articulating what is meant in the specific situation as a public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179361	Thank you. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179362	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I accept your argument. My intensity was clear to distinguish when the public interest ceased, and it may be incurring in some private or private right to certain other defined possibilities by law. I, too, cited the example of the HRT incasator in which he wants to convince whether you have a receiver or not working in the public interest as a public enterprise, but I accept your explanation given that it has already been established in practice and I am withdrawing my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179363	You're withdrawing the amendment? Thank you very much. I would like to thank Secretary of State Juri Martinovic for his statement on the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179364	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 775. The promoter is the Government, the debate is closed, the amendment submitted by MP Stjepan Curaj has been withdrawn. I would like to stress that Article 252 does not apply. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs, i.e. 76. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 82 for, 35 abstentions and 1 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179517	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we have decided this morning, we are now moving to a united debate on the following two points of the agenda, which is: - The final draft law amending the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 818. The second point is: - Final draft law amending the Law on the State Judicial Council, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 812. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I ask the representative of the proponent of the respected Secretary of State Juru Martinovic to give us an additional explanation of the final proposals of the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179518	... The law on the State's Attorney's Council, did everyone hear, must I repeat? [[Speaker not enabled]] The objective of which is to bring judicial officials to the same level as state officials with regard to the obligation to submit a property card and its availability at the same level as defined by these laws and also by the Law on conflict of interest. So these laws regulated this matter back in 2018, in the 9th of May. have gone into effect and one and the other, however, afterwards there have been constant difficulties related to the protection of personal data, these changes have been removed, therefore completely and clearly and transparently, so their property cards are aligned with our duty, they will be published and made available by the same principle, so that the law had to state, that was the expectation of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the motives for which it must happen to avoid disputes, lawsuits, so we have done this procedure in these two documents, so the Law on the Justice and the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, I believe that this is why we have circled it and arranged it in one socially acceptable way, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179519	Thank you, we have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in. You've been here before? Here you go, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179520	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to comment on an incredible situation that the post-pothet part of the judicial authority opposed the publication of the property cards of certain officials, we also saw the President of the Supreme Court who, during his appointment, avoided giving the answers he should have given related to the real estate or concrete land he had in the Dubrovnik coast and finally bought by Agrokor and then the company owned by Agrokor Ivica Todorovic. So what, with this mistrust of the citizens they have to the judiciary, the judicial officials and I said, is there, however, the highest president of the Supreme Court avoided and avoided giving the answers they should give regarding their property as public officials? What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and what makes it a problem for them to publish their assets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179521	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179522	Dear Representative Maras, therefore, the Croatian Government has expressed its position in this legal document, which it has sent to parliament for adoption and the fact that individuals react in their own way simply needs to ask them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179523	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179524	Thank you very much. Property cards are something basic that should be in a democratic society, I don't see any reason why it hasn't been so far, but now that they have a legal obligation you deliver property cards and those who are judges, state lawyers, I think they should pay attention because I don't believe that these people will ever deliver it. I don't believe it, I doubt it's going to work because the boredom when you've protected them and when the judiciary is on these branches where today, it speaks all about our country, it says everything about people's mistrust in the judiciary, it says that we are at the bottom of the issue and because of the impact on the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, on the judicial process, so here is total chaos and I think we need to reform it under the urgent judiciary. Absolutely from A to Z.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179525	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179526	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. For this proposal to amend and supplement both of these laws, I would like to point out first and foremost that when we passed both the DOV Act and the DSV Law in 2018, this was precisely to increase transparency and the confidence of citizens in the judicial system through such a prescribed publication of property cards and judicial officials. However, why this has not occurred so far, and that is exactly what I would like to explain, as stated by the State Secretary, and the reason is that there was a certain technical problem, let's say that because after the final proposal and one and another law have been referred to in the procedure, the EU regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data has been applied. As a result, the proposal for these amendments is to bring the existing laws into line with the regulation so that they can then, in practice, begin with the publication of property data by judicial officials in the same way as it does for state officials. So I just want to point out that this government has not given up on this, and this shows also the proposal of these amendments, and we believe that the entry into force is from 1 January, that soon the property cards of the judicial officials will be published because technical conditions have been created for this because the application system is also being introduced. Thank you very much, of course, the HDZ Club will support these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179527	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, the SDP Representatives' Club will support these two bill proposals rather than because we want to send a message that the property cards of all officials in the Republic of Croatia were those of state officials, such as us in HS or judicial officials, so state lawyers and judges must be publicly available. It's not just some ordinary voyeurism. Publicly available property cards are the best guarantee of fighting corruption. Publicly available property cards allow both competent authorities and the media and all interested persons to monitor whether an official has become inadequately wealthy after his entry into office. To monitor whether the official reported all the squares he owned, whether the official reported all the motor vehicles he owned, and then if he didn't report them, to determine what was behind it. For example, once you find the minister or minister Mercedes parked in the yard and is not registered in the property card, then there is a survey on how this happened, and that is why the transparency of the work of politicians, as well as of all other officials, is also the best and safest measure in the fight against corruption. Now we come to these concrete laws, the Law on the State Judicial Council and the State's Attorney's Council. What kind of change is this? Basically, it is only that the Law on the State Judicial Council, i.e. the State Attorney's Council, adds one item to the provision relating to property cards, I will read it in full: "Data on the property of a judge are published to ensure the availability of public confidence and to strengthen the integrity, transparency and prevention of conflicts of interest and other illicit influences in the conduct of a judicial duty." Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a normative act in which we put the text that has been put in the Croatian legal order so far in the light of the draft acts. If you take into the hands of the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on the State Attorney's Council and their proposals, and if you read why the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred them to the procedure, and we are talking about those adopted at the end of 2018, you will find these provisions and these are exactly these words, because even then the Government of the Republic of Croatia stood firmly at the point of view that we accepted and supported that this should be publicly available. And now I'm asking you, if so far it's been explained that the data on the property of the judges is not published because of someone's cheif, but because we want to strengthen the public's trust and strengthen the integrity of the exercise of that duty, and this will stand and now, in what way we intend to commit, first of all, the State Judicial Council, that its legal task is indeed done. This is a question that I refer to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a question that I refer to the legislator of this law because I believe that this intervention is against which we have nothing because everything that stands here we absolutely sign, we absolutely want to strengthen and public trust and strengthen integrity, but I am asking you, in what way we will ensure that after this intervention the rest of the text that is almost identical to the current text is actually implemented in practice. I'm not the only one in the legal profession who's gonna tell you that there was no obstacle to publishing the property cards of the judicial officials. And I'm also not the only one who's going to tell you that the DSV fought against it with its hands and feet and asked each point to avoid it. I ask you, if they continue to do so now, what will we do to prevent them from doing so. What mechanisms are available to us and what the Government or itself or through the proposal will do to make these property cards finally publicly available. With the fact that I have to warn you that at this point, the DSV playing the law we're talking about doesn't even deliver property cards when a request for insight is submitted. So we have a complete non-transparentity of the work of a single body that should guarantee transparency and I'm afraid, and I'm afraid that by adopting this law, if it remains only a dead letter on paper, if there is no intervention of the executive authority that will watch over its implementation, we will do nothing. I will repeat once again, we will support these two laws, we will support them because we believe that in this, this sentence, there is absolutely nothing controversial in this sentence, however, it is something that every politician, every official, is either a state or a judicial one should stand behind. Transparency, strengthening public confidence in institutions, preventing conflicts of interest. These are neither to be guided, but I ask you, if DSV is not guided by them, will the government of the Republic of Croatia intervene? Will the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who himself is known to be aware that the Committee for Decision-making on Conflict of Interest, not want to supply information that is required to deliver otherwise when it comes to judges? I have to say, I doubt that somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179529	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179530	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Since we have two laws here, so the first one is related to the amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Council and, as a rule, there was no dispute within the DOV itself, I'm just going to concentrate on the DSV, so the State Judicial Council. Here it says nicely, why the purpose of publishing property data is prescribed, it says in order to ensure availability, strengthen public confidence and strengthen the integrity, transparency and prevention of conflicts of interest and other illicit influences in the conduct of judicial duty. We are talking here first of all that through one form of alignment with the General Data Protection Regulation allow the disclosure of judicial property cards. Why? First of all, we must ensure the independence of the judiciary as one of the principles, but first of all, this job must be honorable and this is what we are actually contributing to. So we raise trust in both this and the legal certainty of our citizens before the court. What remains always questionable and what a colleague of the coat of arms has in front of me or in front of me, is why it has not been done so far. Let's say we're now hoping to remove some of those legal shortcomings. Therefore, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is not responsible for this procedure but rather for the DSV which controls whether those provisions are currently met under Article 62. The Law on the State Judicial Council item 7 states that the tight work of a property card is inaccessible, so it's now current it says there. Then why didn't it happen? It also says Article 87, which is something you would like to see, that the obligation to submit an asset card is therefore on the day of entry into service. Did we determine the retroactivity of this law? Do they, on the day they became judges, have to make any changes to the day of today or just the day of the amendment and the addition of this law, or have we made changes to the previous ones where we prescribed it as an obligation for them? That remains unclear to me, I must admit. Maybe somewhere in the transitional provisions solved, I didn't come across it because first of all it applies to those previous changes, but I think it would be the right solution for someone to, if possible, now I'm going in there in a technical capacity when someone took on what they had at the time, and what's going on today is that it's the real meaning of the property card. To list today is all the initial position, and we are interested in what he has gained in his mandate. Is it easy for those who now become judges then we determine the starting position, and for those who were there 20 years ago, 30 years ago, 10 years ago, and now they have certain assets, they just want to be convinced that their property is not disproportionate to their reported income, and that's all. And by doing so, we strengthen their position, strengthen their independence, honor and restore and give citizens additional confidence in the whole court process. It's actually everything that goes here. This absolutely does not need to be misused, what I can understand should not be questioned when it is perhaps within certain and procedures to question the very credibility of the judge, I know that it can have implications and that we must not subject to general hysteria because maybe something really is right, and if media perception is created, it can certainly have certain conditions of action itself in progress and so far and that is what I can understand. But also what big but, we need to know that this independence of judges I believe that they and deserve especially in terms of the items that lead and the much bigger wages and I am absolutely in order to increase them, in order to ensure their independence with these salaries, but also that part of the ineffectiveness, ineffectiveness of keeping the objects in drawers absolutely punish them, that we can't have some former judges who are now sharing their minds around as great messiahs, who have been very messy in doing their jobs. It should have been sanctioned earlier, it should have been put on sooner, but it's another pair of gloves. Of course, the HNS Club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179531	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Young Collars of Shkybol. He's not present. An individual colleague, Maras. He's not present. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Secretary of State and my associates for the reasons of the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Now I'm setting a break until 1400 hours when we'll continue our work. It's the 13th 34th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179532	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 811. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the State's Attorney's Council. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 115 for, 3 abstentions and 2 against the Law amending the Law on the State's Attorney's Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179549	Good afternoon, all of you, Honorable Representative Bačić, Honorable Representative Alexic, Honorable Representative Grbin, State Secretary and everyone else. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS]] And dear colleague Bulj I am opening the point: - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation No. 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on the European Civil Initiative, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 802; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda adopted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by means of an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We have also a representative of the government, State Secretary, Mr Darko Nekic. Here's an additional explanation from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179550	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I welcome all the honourable MPs. Here, as you have said before you, is the proposal for a law implementing Regulation No. 2019/788 on the European Citizens' Initiative. Therefore, the European Parliament and the EU Council adopted the said Regulation on 17 April 2019. This Regulation aims to make the European Citizens' Initiative more accessible, simpler and easier to implement for the organizers of the initiative and those who support it and to strengthen the accompanying measures to achieve its full potential as an instrument to encourage the debate. It should facilitate the participation of the largest number of citizens in the democratic decision-making process at Union level. That Regulation will replace the existing EU Regulation. That is to say, it replaced the already existing EU Regulation No. 211/2011 on the citizens' initiative and the same latter is put out of effect with effect from 1 January 2020. This proposal therefore proposes to designate, for the purposes of implementing the said Regulation, the competent authorities to verify and issue certificates to the relevant security and technical features of the individual Internet collection systems of support declarations and the verification and confirmation of support declarations and to establish a contact point for free provision of information and assistance to the groups of organisers. Regulation 2019/788 provides for the use of the central Internet collection system established and maintained by the European Commission to collect online support declarations. However, in order to facilitate the transition to the same organiser and initiatives registered in accordance with this Regulation by 31.12.2022, they may choose instead to use their own individual online collection system of support declarations. The proposed law also lays down a contact point for the free provision of information and assistance to groups of organizers in accordance with Article 4(6) of the Regulation, which is the Ministry of Administration and the Information System Security Office, each under its jurisdiction. The proposed law means an emergency procedure is proposed precisely because of this period of 1 January 2020. We, therefore, as promoters, believe that all the conditions for the adoption of the meaning of this law are met by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179551	We have three replicas. He's a colleague of the Bulls first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179552	Thank you very much. Croatia received a Commissioner for Democracy and Democracy in the EU and you said a lot about democracy and citizens' initiatives and referendums. You said you spat on the People's Initiatives to decide on Election Law, about Istanbul, about the Convention you also spit in your face and especially this Electoral Law because you didn't want to put it to the vote. Not a day today, Your Honor, we MPs have not received a list of 40,000 invalid signatures. So is it a shame that you are now referring to certain regulations that you will not implement here, you will not implement, much like the Prime Minister does not respect the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest. This is just about getting it done and you said everything about the People's Initiative to decide where to choose the Election Law, you all said what the citizens' initiative means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179553	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179554	Thank you. So we are implementing this proposal by law means European legislation and we are introducing this regulation into our law. As far as other questions are concerned, I don't think there's any need to answer them because we've already answered your questions here in the House several times about how to conduct the referendum and the whole procedure that was carried out at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179555	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179556	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State with an associate, so here's the sequence here, and my colleague Bulj has opened, I'm interested in exactly the implementation of this and this regulation, how much can it affect our referendum law, in terms of giving some guidelines or amendments, and how much can be implemented in this way in our legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179558	Thank you. Therefore, this regulation will allow every citizen or every EU citizen to mean that if a million signatures are collected, it has an active impact on EU legislation and will, in any event, leave a significant impact on Croatia itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179559	And the last replica, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179560	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, so very simple, simplely simulated, we have this kind of statement about these initiatives that can be given by electronic means. Are we, when we introduce this and when this is done, able to move on and do the same for our own, as far as our legislation is concerned, collecting certain referendum initiatives, signatures, and dare to go further in perspective, and electronic voting? What should all, which preconditions have to be met that we also experience one day and, especially if we can already work at a European level, be introduced into our legislation and not as a law implementing the European regulation, but as our law within the existing law on referendums or any electoral law, that this will also be valid for our initiatives and our referendums and our collection of signatures?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179561	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179562	Thank you. Therefore, this Regulation applies exclusively to EU legislation. That's the second answer, and as far as the regulation and the law itself are concerned, so it's not just possible by electronic means to collect signatures, but it regulates and the question of let me say so in a colloquial way, paper means collecting signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179563	Thank you. The committee's reporters? Nothing. So I can open the debate, so I'm opening a debate, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, colleague Miro Bulj, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179564	Thank you very much. Standardly, respected secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, means one standard story, one standard procedure where we pass regulations through our EU legislation, the European Parliament and the Council on this case on civil initiatives, on referendums, on the statements of our citizens, on how this is done in the EU, we have examples in other countries where these activities are being carried out, but I will repeat what I said and through the replica, that this government is absolutely not being democratic and this Parliament is being anti-democratic here, not in the way of choice but in the way you have lost the meaning of what, legitimacy, you are legal, but the legitimacy of the people is lost because all the chips that have gone from one side to the other, are essentially lost legitimacy, but this is now half of this majority. I have mentioned that it is the European Commissioner from the European People's Party, i.e. from the HDZ chosen for democracy or democracy, which is easier for you but the fact that a referendum has been hit in Croatia, citizens' initiatives have been hit and, in particular, comparing this here with the recent signatures for the president's election. In a very short time of 15 days, the citizens' initiative must collect a large number in order to declare the people, a large number of signatures, have collected more than 400,000 signatures, although no voter list has been arranged, and there is no clear list of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and especially voters, and there is the possibility that 40,000 signatures are invalid, but it is not disputed what I say, Minister Lovro Kuščević, with the order of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, of course, and you, of course, have trampled that you did not allow us to see these 40,000 signatures of the referendum initiative on what hurts most, and that is democracy, the change of the Electoral Law, where the number of parliamentary deputies are being reduced, where three preferential votes are going, where there is a loss of influence by the leaders, i.e.e. the president of the parties who draw up the list, i.e. in the selection of our citizens from the list of people. So, you've stepped down, this regulation, what does this regulation mean now? Well, there's a referendum in Switzerland. It takes six months. For a lot less signatures and it doesn't matter where they sign, it was all important here. Here the will of the people of a citizens' initiative to decide the initiative of 400,000 people has been affected. And we today, dear secretary, are discussing the initiative. on a Regulation of the Council of Europe and of the European Parliament. Then this is the precedent, this is the mockery, this is the mockery, this is the humiliation of every man, the humiliation of the Croatian people. You stole the people's referendum, Your Honor, you and your government stole the democratic decision of citizens based on the collected signatures of the citizens' initiative. Does anyone agree with this referendum on the Istanbul Convention or on amendments to the electoral law that have been collected, it is in principle a different matter but to spit 400,000 people in the face and come here and talk about the regulation and the application of the regulation in Croatian i.e. in this law, the bill of law, and in fact it is a copying that the people know, it is exclusively a copy of the regulation and which this House will of course vote but it is not respected. The will of the people is not respected. Well, a referendum is being held in Switzerland and other countries for things that are unimaginable in us from local, regional to state referendums. And the people decide who decides, people. I therefore believe that this, this is one pamphlet that we are going to accept here, most will probably accept and no one is in principle against it, but the Croatian state is least democratic, the Croatian state does not respect citizens' initiatives. There's a civil initiative in my Sinj right now, right now, but before I was in a number of civic initiatives around Vukovar is the place of a special pitet, I was the coordinator of "Let's choose representatives by name and last name" and I know what that means. And a number of locals to stop the sonic birthplace, health services, I've been on a local team, and I know what it is. However, when I compare this democracy and that collection and that control of the sub-region of signatures for the referendum, and when I look at the signature checks and the collection of signatures for the President of the Republic or any other one, it is disastrous. Who guarantees co-workers and colleagues that they are not from these 40,000 signatures after the president has raised little, who guarantees that not all 40,000 signatures from this referendum initiative are only put in those boxes, temporarily, temporarily, are temporarily now and returned. Who controls these processes? You've reached the number 10 grand and 100 seems to me to have said, 10 grand and 100, and here you are, who guarantees that no one else has signed my family members, for example. For what HDZ collected Anta Djapic and similar signatures? Who guarantees that mine is not there or my family name, who guarantees it? Or anyone who doesn't know? So in a democratic procedure for elections in local leaders, counties, mayors, presidents, that's what you want. E, but when there's a referendum initiative on amending the electoral law, we don't have to agree or disagree, it doesn't matter, then there's a check to see if the number is, is it, is it, is it, is it not, or does it not have a clutch or a clutch, then 40 thousand invalid signatures, 40 grand. But that it is all true and I have no argument from you that it is true because I am as a parliamentary representative, my colleagues from the club we asked that this citizen, this citizen's initiative of signing a referendum give us an insight. We didn't win and we voted on that initiative. I repeat again, no matter who is for it or who is against these proposed things but the fact that they are terribly strict, that we are strict, that we are almost impossible to gather to the citizens to organize and collect, perhaps at local level, at the state level almost impossible, we had only one referendum that had succeeded. Only one referendum in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. two, about the independence of the Republic of Croatia was the first, and at that time it was much easier under Milosevic's regime, much easier a referendum than under Plenkovic this referendum on the Electoral Law, much easier. So what are you afraid of? You're afraid of making a statement from the people. And now you European Party, which has in its structures in Europe high-ranking leaders who are calling for democracy and citizens' initiatives to decide, essentially nothing is decided by the citizens, this Parliament, which has chosen the Croatian people on nothing, decides anything. So democracy is crushed here, crushed, dumped in a garbage can, in... and you have stepped down the referendum initiatives, the will of the people to organise and collect 400 thousand signatures in a very short time, the will of a citizens' initiative, a group of people who decided to come out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of the deadlines being six months, to collect signatures everywhere, only that they are of course, that the man who gave them to sign it and not the one when the votes were stolen and the dead were voted. Because you're so strict in these civil initiatives, you spit so much, you lose people's spirits, that's why people go out, that's why people go out because they can't and nothing affects them. Citizens and citizens' initiatives absolutely affect nothing. I have led a number of citizens' initiatives locally and some have succeeded since the survival of the Sinj birthplace, and I say locally, from preventing the disposal of industrial waste in a mining site near the Cetina River, a number of others, it does not matter now, but they are local, local man if he is interested he can and at the level of the state, region, county impossible, impossible. I don't know what this regulation means to you right now, I don't even know what you're trying to say that we can collect a million signatures and that we're going to influence everything that's going on in the EU that you're going to decide. Well, democracy has been trampled in Croatia. I repeat, we had a definition of marriage, it was the only one, it was the second one, and the first one was where it was voted on the independence of the Republic of Croatia, and then when Croatia was self-sustaining under the Milosevic regime, there was still a huge impact on the referendum, adopted and under Plenkovic's staff we can't do that either. We cannot hold a referendum under Plenkovic's staff, and under Milosevic, we have succeeded in doing so on independence, on the separation of Croatia on Croatia's independence. So how do you now appeal to some kind of democracy? I know that you are now in a panic, that it is all expensive in fear, come elections known, but it is good fear that God has given it, it is good fear that God has given it, but you took away the people's right to decide and this regulation absolutely in the Republic of Croatia in this way as you rule, in the way people come to a referendum, how the possibilities and procedures to the referendum are absolutely and almost impossible. And what I will do now and what we colleagues and colleagues are going to discuss about something that does not exist in the Republic of Croatia, and as we call for European values, the values of Western civilization, the EU, and basically everything about people's decisions, civil initiatives, associations, you have trampled, you have trampled people's will to collect signatures, to organize for anything, when everything that has been launched by the citizens, what has been started by the Croatian people, you have done the opposite, and that is why there is lost motivation, the hope is lost, you do not, give no hope for people to plead important questions in the Republic for, which affect life and you are normally coming here cheerfully, boasting and talking about the referendum i.e. on the citizens' initiatives, which you have spit in the face, Plenkovic's Government spit in the face, Minister Lovro Kuščević will not even mention him again, and I, it is the responsibility of the prime minister, which you did not try to do, I am sorry that you did so, you have tried to make it possible for the Croatian people, the citizens' initiative, that the Croatian people will plead according to their proposal, you have done everything, you have done everything not to do it. It also took part in the initiative that a lot of signatures were collected, took part in the Vukovar initiative, the place of special pitet, 700 000 signatures, also thrown under the feet, now it's pre-election time, and they've been fed up with those laws again, but we'll talk about it tomorrow, we'll talk about it tomorrow. Therefore, Madam Secretary, all you have said is simple demagogy, pulsism, stolen politics under these lights, you are witnesses, you know in your Ličko-Senjska this county is the possibility of a referendum and influence on local sheriffs, influence on the state, impossible and anyone to hold, all that, to launch a civil initiative on any issue, it will be trampled, be humiliated, be sparse, harassed and in the Republic until the referendum is decided and facilitated the referendum, until it is done as in other countries, as an example of Switzerland where it is decided literally on everything, from environmental issues, economic, all other issues, until there are no democracy, but rather a dictatorship in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179565	I thank you, too, for your next colleague, Stjepan Curaj, in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, here's your colleague, Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179566	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, with his associate, fellow Members and colleagues, so today we are talking about the final draft law implementing the regulation of the European Parliament on the European Citizens' Initiative. So, what exactly does that mean? Says the European Citizens' Initiative is an instrument of participatory democracy that enables citizens to participate or propose concrete legislative changes in all areas where the Commission is in charge, so we are talking about the environment, agriculture, energy, transport or trade. How does that work? By establishing a civil committee, members of which must be 7 EU buildings, so residents and 7 different states. They must collect a million signatures, of which, also in seven different states, should not in any country where the signing is, be signatures below the threshold. In Croatia, the actual threshold is 8250 signatures, in Germany 72000 as the highest, right, at least 4500. That works, what exactly is guaranteed by that? It is guaranteed that a debate will be held on a particular subject before the European Commission, which it can accept or reject as an initiative, so it is not obligatory, but must give its reasons why something refuses or does not accept, so it draws attention to certain issues. At the moment, as far as I've been able to investigate, three such initiatives are active for which I do not believe today, since we haven't introduced the law, we are a little late, for which we could sign. Namely, it is one year from the submission of a request or approval by the European Commission that this subject is a matter, that signatures can be collected on it. In 15.5. is such an initiative to protect bees called "Save Bees", so let's say 12.9. is an interesting initiative, which is to close or freeze EU funds, EU funds to corrupt countries, that is, since 12.9. can be signed. We also have an initiative to address the climate crisis, etc., that is something that already EU members and members can sign, something that we are a little late, but here with this law therefore goes by emergency procedure we will allow to sign. What's important to me in this law or questionable is art. 7th because it is said to support the right to support the Article. Six. The European citizens' initiative by signing a statement of support shall be held by citizens of the Republic of Croatia from 18 years of age. Life, which is in line with absolutely those EU regulations but we say in Article. 7th to right from Art. 6th of this law, the ministry responsible for the administration, trusts in the record of the voter being conducted, which is governed by the law governed by the Voter Registry but what I have managed to find, that this must not be a condition. So, records as in the voters' register, so they have the right to those who have just crossed the age line and not who are registered voters. So if someone's not on the voters list, and he's 18, and he's a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, he has to be able to sign it. Now I'm asking here, if we put in to check if he can get out of the register, then we are contrary to what the regulation requires because we have a situation in which we have our citizens who are not being seduced in the register of voters, by changing... The residences, something happened, there is, so there's a check before every election whether you're in any register, you, if you're not, de facto you can't give support and you have over 18 and that's the only condition you should be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now I don't know if it's necessary to go here by amendment or what that article means. 7. but here, let's say, as a proposal so let the Government, by its own amendment, correct it because it says citizens don't have to be listed as voters already old enough, that's what the European Commission regulation says and we said here that they're checking according to the register, which would de facto mean if you're not in the register, you can't give support and that's the opposite. What we're opening here, what I've come up with in the replica, I think it's one good thing that we're opening this window towards digitization, according to something that we're already from these experiences, we're also transferring this system to domestic legislation as regards other systems of signing, supporting whether individual candidates for elections, whether a referendum initiative or all of what's prescribed that signatures are needed specifically by citizens or voters because I think that should have been done a long time ago. Also, when we go in that direction, I would like to see that it is working on the principle that through the E-Citizen system where we get into our box to look for notices, salary accounts and any public documents, tomorrow we can be able to vote in elections through that system. Either personally or through a protected system, because if we can handle classified, classified, personal data officially through the E-Citizen system, then we could probably do the voting that way. That's what we should do, what we should be trying to do, but we're going one step at a time and I believe this is the first step and it's not going to be on this one right now, it's not supposed to be on this statue. It would be crazy enough to now take over some European regulation and say it's worth it for Europe, it's not worth it to us. That would be a little hypocritical. But I'm just asking this part to be checked out because it's an article. Seven, we're automatically killing Art. 6. which are both in contradiction because we cannot verify the allegations of art. 6. which says that by signing the right to support the European citizens' initiative by signing a statement, support has citizens of the Republic of Croatia from 18 and we'll check if they have 18 voters' registers which would logically sound like you're entering the 18-year-old voters' register, but I wonder if, what about those adult people who aren't in the voters' register? Did we shut them down and we can't by regulation? He doesn't want to vote, but he wants to support the initiative. Here's just to find out because this was such a simple thing to do, but somewhere it's going, you don't have to engage anything different, but let's go check that it's in line. Of course, the HNS Club will support these changes and we'll see now in the final, I don't know if we can make a possible amendment about this article but I believe that it might not be necessary for us to work it, that the Proposer can make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179567	Thank you, too. The next colleague, Peja Grbin, is in front of SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go, buddy coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The European citizens' initiative was introduced as an institute in the Lisbon Treaty in order to complement in some way the EU legislative initiative. In contrast to most Member States, including Croatia, in which the legislative initiative is not only the Government but also all representatives in the Croatian Parliament, representatives clubs, etc., in the EU, the legislative initiative has only the European Commission. In order to complement this democratic deficit, the Lisbon Treaty created a European citizens' initiative, provided that several conditions are met, which are already several times the condition of at least a million signatures of support in at least 7 Member States under the criteria prescribed by the regulation, then the European Commission must consider such an initiative. So far there have been several initiatives, some of which have been more successful, others less successful, one of the more successful was the Water to All initiative, and they have shown that there is room for a European citizens' initiative in the legal order. By the regulation we implement, this Regulation applies in the field of all Member States, this law is only provisions to be implemented because it is a directly applicable EU act, this procedure is modernised and, of course, this law as well as the regulation itself should be supported. However, under normal circumstances, I would stop there and say that the club's representative of the SDP will vote for this bill, but we have a small problem. But that's an art. The sixth law, which says the right to support the European citizens' initiative by signing a statement of support, has citizens of the Republic of Croatia with 18 years of age. The Republic of Croatia is an EU member, of course, would not have passed this law if we were not an EU member, but as an EU member, it has certain obligations, and one of these is that EU citizens in the EU as a whole in certain segments of EU law have the same rights. This is one of those segments. If EU citizens who are permanently resident in the Republic of Croatia have the right to vote in elections for the EU parliament, if EU citizens who are permanently resident in the Republic of Croatia have the right to participate in local elections, then it would be logical to enable these citizens to support the European citizens' initiative in the area of the Republic of Croatia. If you read the regulation, you will see that the regulation actually supports it because the regulation says that the signature of an individual EU citizen counts for the country that that citizen is, regardless of where the signature is given. Croatia's task is only to enable the Republic of Croatia to give the signature in the area of the Republic of Croatia. If the signatures for the European citizens' initiative were only collected online, this intervention would be unnecessary. However, the signatures for the European citizens' initiative can still be given through a classic form, through a paper form and while such a possibility is provided for by a regulation, Art. 6 should be amended in a way that enables citizens of EU Member States who are EU citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to give such support to the initiative. With me going one step further. It is precisely because of that provision to sign an account according to nationality to anyone found in the Republic of Croatia, and an EU citizen can prove it by a certain valid document, this should be made possible. But we didn't go that far. The SDP representative club submitted an amendment to the article. 6, we hope that the Proposer will accept it, and as far as we are concerned, this is not a condition for supporting this bill because we think it is a regulation that goes in the right direction, which should be supported and for its application in Croatia this law sets out some necessary mechanisms for which we will, of course, support it, but we hope that the Proposer will have a hearing for these remarks that we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179569	Thank you, too, fellow coat of arms. The next one is... An apology. Tell your colleague Bull, I'm sorry. He went into the assembly, so I have to give it to him. Go ahead, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179570	Don't worry about me. I'm looking for a break. on behalf of the Bridge Club of.../incomprehensible/... minutes. [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Allow me, please. Explain.]] Here, we see that citizens' initiatives are based on EU decisions, i.e. Their bodies, that the government wants to implement it in laws, however, are the fact that this government of Andrej Plenkovic has spit in the face of the citizens' initiatives People decide the truth about the Istanbul Convention. Four hundred thousand signatures have been collected, people, our people have gathered four hundred thousand on the streets of signatures. Four hundred thousand. It's not stuck in boxes like for the presidential election that got fucked up, maybe even those signatures. Citizens' initiatives have been underestimated, humiliated and spit out, dear colleagues and colleagues. And it is you who accepted and voted not to issue a referendum, and you did not see, of 400, you did not see any invalid signatures. Four hundred thousand signatures have been collected in 15 days, a citizens' initiative and you are calling for EU legislation that we here prescribe. Well, bigger dictatorships, so there was a referendum on the independence of the Republic of Croatia, I repeat during Milosevic, during Milosevic, it was conducted. And during Plenkovic, the citizens' initiative People decided, the truth about Istanbul, could not be translated. Four hundred thousand signatures. Everyone's over... Let us see what's going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't even know today why you made fun of our people, why you spat on him, why you euthanized democracy? Why euthanized democracy? Why didn't the MPs get invalid signatures? What's with the insight? The people of Croatia don't deserve it. He doesn't deserve lies and deception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179571	Thank you. So, I'd like a break by, like, 14 hours and 50 minutes. Thank you. [[It's a 14,40 o'clock meeting.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.50 HOURS]] Here we go. Here you go, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179573	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. This is what the Secretary of State said in the introduction itself about the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2019 and the final proposal for a law that we will adopt here, but the debate itself, here is a colleague in front of me who has opened some topics particularly related to these 18 years. That proposal must normally implement the Regulation on the European Citizens' Initiative itself as a secondary act of the EU itself, bring it into line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and in a way that the regulation listed and contained in the draft law replaces the existing European Parliament and Council Regulation of 2011 on the citizens' initiative. Through the initiative of citizens from different Member States, they can gather to influence the adoption and creation of European policy in all areas of social action or areas in which the European Commission is competent to submit a legislative proposal in the field of different social issues, environmental protection, human rights, consumer protection, media pluralism, street protection, etc. The Regulation lays down the form of public participation in the design of European public policies, so-called A European citizens' initiative that allows citizens of a significant number of EU Member States to directly ask the European Commission to propose a relevant legislative initiative for them in the area of competence of the EU itself. As regards the existing law, it is determined that the Ministry of Administration and the Information System Security Office as the competent authorities for the verification and certification of the establishment of the security and technical characteristics of the online collection of support declarations while the Ministry of Administration is designated as the competent authority for the verification and confirmation of a declaration of support itself. For the purpose of monitoring the implementation of the Regulation in the field of personal data, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data shall be responsible. From all of this and what the State Secretary in the introduction has mentioned to us, it is definitely a quality proposal related to the implementation of the regulation itself, as well as the implementation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, because it will allow our citizens, as well as certain initiatives and issues which they intend to address at EU level, to be included in the same and thus affecting the very legislative framework brought by the European Commission at the level of all Member States. Normally, most of the debate here was related to our referendum law, which does not have any special link to this, because we have an exclusive impact on EU legislation. The HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179574	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List is colleague Marin Škibola. Here's your pal, Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179575	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. The European Citizens' Initiative, the very initiative launched in 2009 by the Lisbon Treaty, can say that this is indeed a positive initiative and a good initiative. For what reason? Because most EU citizens believe that European decision-making bodies operate in a non-transparent way. For these reasons, we had major petitions to collect signatures against certain agreements that were moving at EU level. And one of these agreements was TTIP, another agreement was CETA, a CETA agreement between the EU and Canada where European citizens thought it was a non-transparent process that would deregulate certain elements and thus be implemented into a system of certain things that would ultimately harm small people, to the detriment of citizens and in the interests of large corporations and these hypercapitalistic elites. The Lisbon Treaty, which means in 2009, created preconditions for the introduction of the European Citizens' Initiative. It has introduced a meaning into the EU's legal political system and the European Citizens' Initiative has thus revived, however, a constructive criticism of this European citizens' initiative is that it does not have a binding legal effect. It means even when citizens and when it means meeting these conditions that citizens from at least 7 EU Member States collect a million signatures, regardless of whether or not the European Commission can ultimately conclude that this initiative of a million signatures will have no legal effect. I therefore think that this could be more than I could say to strengthen this initiative itself, and that it still has a slightly stronger legal effect than it has so far because it collects a million signatures, it is indeed one large job that requires broad support from EU citizens. In 2011, the Council and Parliament won the first regulation on the European Citizens' Initiative, but a broad and public debate on further changes to this instrument has been launched several years after. Since the entry into force of the first Regulation, there have been only 5 successful initiatives and as many as 30 failed. This data was a strong incentive to engage in further amendments to the legal framework for the European Citizens' Initiative. The new regulation enters into force 1.1.2020, and today we have before us a law that introduces it into Croatian legislation. Otherwise, for the sake of information, some initiatives under way at European level are "Save Bees and Farmers", "Rescuing the Climate Crisis", "Let's cut down on the root corruption in Europe by suspending country funding with inefficient judiciary", here's an interesting initiative, there we could certainly be classified as a country with a deeply inefficient judiciary, with one deeply poor judiciary. Unfortunately, the new regulation did not bring about the major positive shifts expected by citizens and European civil society organisations. As I said, it does not create stronger obligations for the Commission to act in the event of the implementation of the successful EC and the initiative, although it is expected and expected to play a more visible and powerful role in the European Parliament. Another thing that is problematic, means when certain civil society organisations collect signatures at EU level, they of course get data from citizens, this new regulation will simply delete those data from citizens after these signatures are collected and the criteria are met. I think it is not good in principle because we have limited civil society in one communication with citizens who have supported this initiative and we have narrowed down, we have narrowed down the possibility of further interaction between citizens and civil society, so I do not see why they should delete these data from their register, especially if these civil societies will also organise some initiatives with data from citizens in the future, they can directly inform them of some new initiative, so I consider it to be a negative, negative phenomenon, but the regulation is as accepted by representatives in the European Parliament, it has been accepted by representatives and broken and socialists and liberals, certain other MPs have not accepted it, but it has come to the Republic of Croatia as it is because it has been accepted in the European Parliament. In addition to the administrative simplification of the procedure for the launch of the citizens' initiative, the most positive step is to enable young people of 16 years of age. to give their support or signature. With these changes, the EU has opened up the possibility of more than 10 million young people from 16 years of age. to engage in the creation of certain European policies, and I think it is a good message coming from the European Parliament and the European Commission, it is only a matter of how much we will recognise this decision and how many Croatian parliaments will be, how much will the Croatian Parliament be available to accept, for example. An amendment that would really allow this to happen in the Republic of Croatia because the European Commission has given national parliaments the opportunity to regulate, means whether they want citizens to participate in the 16-year-old initiative. Either that or they don't want it, so it's an autonomous decision by every national state, I only personally on that side to allow young people at the age of 16. participation in these processes, to learn about civic activities and to contribute in some way to the development of society as a whole. In Austria and Malta, this is the case in itself because in Austria and Malta at the age of 16. Citizens already have the right to vote, at the age of 17 in Greece, Estonia, Scotland and some provinces of Germany, young people aged 16. They also have the right to, to go to local elections. The Republic of Croatia has cemented in the Constitution the age limit for going to elections at 18 completed years of life, for all elections except for local ones. Using this narrow maneuvering space, the club of independent youth lists has proposed in the procedure a law that would allow for the local elections of young people of 16 years. In fact, to be full voters, full voters, I think it is a good bill and in order to allow, if young people do not already go to these national parliamentary elections, that they can be active in their local units and vote in the elections, I do not think it would bring any problem for legislation, for the legal order, for the political order, but that would be a good thing, and that would be one step for the future to introduce the rule that young people can also be at 16. to vote in parliamentary elections, such as in Austria and Malta. Therefore, the Club of Independent Youth Lists will submit an amendment to the article. The sixth law, which will give the right to support the European Citizens' Initiative to all young people from 16 years of age. I call on all political parties to support this amendment, too, because this European citizens' initiative is indeed democratisation of certain processes in the EU and it is good that young people are already 16 years old. Let's get into something like that, there won't be any damage, no harm done. What I must also say, and what Mr Bulj has touched on this topic, it turns out to us that only this European citizens' initiative that can collect signatures by electronic means via the Internet is much more comprehensive and powerful than we offer our citizens, including in these processes through the referendum. So the citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot sign a referendum by electronic means and I consider it a deficit of democracy in one segment especially with the fact that they cannot go to the elections via the internet. by electronic means of voting in elections, it would be a much greater turnout, we should be in the interest that turnout in elections is much greater because in this way we would show and prove that we care about democracy, but we get the impression that these main political parties such as HDZ and SDP have an interest in this system where little turnout is in elections, so such an impression is gained. I can only speculate about it, but the fact is that if we have such unorganized legislative acts on the matter of the referendum, where the signatures for the referendum are collected, I don't know, two weeks, and then there's a lot of things happening again, meaning after that deadline for signing, some still collecting signatures, some of them still collecting, they don't know from the other side which are donors of certain initiatives, they don't know the rules, they don't know the order, there's one order, there's one anarchy, and on the other hand it happens that citizens invest large and intellectual capital and effort and different resources to collect these signatures which are very difficult, meaning until now these signatures were collected only initiatives that had the support of certain significant institutions, however, and if the Constitutional Court can say that the issue is not constitutional, meaning that it's one nonsens, it should be the opposite, meaning that the first order, means that the first order and then the constitutional law of law of the Court, and the law of law of law, and the law of law of law, and the Court, and the law of law of law, and the Court, and the law of law, and the law of law of law, and the law of law, and of law, and the law, and of law, and of law. We should avoid this, we should also implement an electronic voting method via the Internet, collecting signatures for referendum initiatives via the Internet, because this European citizens' initiative itself gives such a message, and I see no reason why they would not do so if we want to democratisation the processes. The Independent Youth List club will consider voting on this proposal and we will see what will be the position of policy options on our amendment to allow citizens with 16 years of participation and participation in the European citizens' initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179576	Thank you, too. That concludes the debate on behalf of the clubs, we have one application for an individual debate, that's colleague Miro Bulj, here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179577	Here we go again and individually, regardless of the almost empty assembly except for the distinguished colleagues and colleagues who are here. That democracy of the electoral Croatian people, the choice of Croatian citizens, but democracy was killed in the Republic of Croatia, referendum initiatives were killed so that this means a regulation that will be implemented through the laws of the European Parliament and the Council, will not have much impact on the processes within Croatian democratisation because the simple referendum initiative "People decide" and the Istanbul Convention, civil initiatives that have collected a number of signatures, but unfortunately this government of A. Plenkovic, who has also received HDZ, who has also received his own person as vice president in the European Commission, has received precisely this, democratisation and demography, and has just destroyed it in the Republic of Croatia, first because of the killing of democracy, the killing of citizens' initiatives, the killing of our people's motivation to organise themselves and thus affecting their better lives, but it has not affected the referendum, but it has come to say that it was true in the words of the vote that it was not to say that it. At the request of parliamentarians, we were not given this insight, I am sorry that I was in this assembly of parliament in which democracy was killed, I am sorry, I believe that your colleagues, too, no matter what we are on the side of the opposition, and my colleague Babic is on the side of the majority, that he is sorry for what was killed democracy, what was killed, what was the citizens' initiative, what was killed a referendum on the Istanbul Convention and the citizens' statement, what was murdered, mainly the Electoral Law, no matter what agreed or disagreed, you, if you agree with the Prime Minister or the Istanbul Convention, and the people are asking to vote on it, the citizens' initiative, no matter what you agree with Prime Minister Plenkovic and this Istanbul Convention, however we should have made it possible for the people to make themselves known, regardless of the differences that you, the fact that you and the domesticity of the ZP, that there were not yet the need to be able to agree with the law. But it's even more painful about democracy, collected signatures to amend the electoral law. I have also participated as co-ordinator in my field of numerous citizens' initiatives from "Vukovar, place of special pitet" to "Let's choose representatives by name and last name", around Croatian roads, around local referendums, maternity sites, stationaries, I have said that, many environmental problems, I was also the organizer and bearer of these initiatives for a time. And I am disappointed that we killed the citizens' initiative in the Republic of Croatia, what this Parliament has created in being anti-democratic, you do not have the legal choice, but you no longer have the national legitimacy of the distinguished secretary is if someone has been elected from the list of SDPs that has quite the opposite approached, that we now have more tokens than Milan Bandic's biggest club of the ruling majority. Therefore, I believe that democracy has been killed and that Andrej Plenkovic will be remembered as I said, we have a referendum in Croatia of two who have passed, it is about independence and independence of RS, it was then that referendum passed by a large majority over 90% of the independence of Yugoslavia and then during Milosevic's regime it passed the referendum and was allowed to vote. And during Plenkovic it is not possible to vote on election law. So Milosevic when he was the biggest pressure on the independent Republic of Serbia when he drew the borders of the great Serbia, when Vucic's friend, then Chetnik Vukic, a friend of Prime Minister Plenkovic, from the same political option when he played and committed major crimes, first of all pummeling his people of Serbian nationality against his neighbours at the borders of Serbia, then passed the referendum. Now imagine today cannot pass a referendum, and we are calling for European values, stolen here, we are calling for what are we calling for? So was either of you an activist, were you an activist? Do you know how hard it is to be in people's civil initiatives? But for the presidential elections... the mayors can collect signatures wherever you want, the HDZ can help their own to tear off their opponents to collect signatures. Who knows whose signatures are for example? In the cemetery... Ante Djakic, who'll know, but that's the way it is. Anusic has these agreements, it agrees and there is no problem with Andrej Plenkovic's democracy. I wish that different secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, that we had strengthened civil initiatives, strengthened referendums, weakened this strict way of collecting signatures and short time and had to collect half a year, much less signatures, not 10%. It's supposed to be a state-level organization, impossible. Who's going to organize in 15 days and collect all the signatures, deliver them in time? I mean it's a very difficult process, almost impossible. I... is “In the name of the family” initiative in amendments to the Constitution i.e. The definition of marriage is two initiatives that have passed so far. And then when that initiative passed, it wasn't Plenkovic at the time in power but another political option, then they gave their hands sure to tear down a little bit. But personally, I am expressing great dissatisfaction over the distinguished secretaries of killing democracy, killing civil initiatives, killing a direct statement, whether power comes from the people as described in the Constitution. And I think that this is a dictatorship, in fact, we have a constitution that is called in the first article that the government comes from the people and that the government corresponds to the people, but in the Republic of Croatia it's quite different. Instead of giving us proposals on the referendum, the electoral law we gave in the procedure is, the amendments to the electoral law, if the referendum is not enough for you, the initiative has collected enough signatures for the referendum, the Most Club MOST has referred the electoral law to the procedure and we will discuss it, we will give amendments and we will see whether, no matter who gave it, but here in the procedure is. Why don't you want to discuss it? Why do we not give very important questions to the referendum? If you don't have the strength, our people will decide. As Hungarian Orban said, there is no sale of agricultural land referendum amen, yet a little more here for a month and even less Hungarians will be able to buy agricultural land in Croatia, an exclusive economic belt. Why would they even bother here? There goes the debate, the people who are against it, the referendum is called and the referendum passes. However, when the unions collected the signatures, then when the collection was then the government paid for advertising from the budget, hey watch out, 67 union action is too, then the minister, now regional development, has now developed, the minister says this is how we will pay from the budget of taxpayers campaign against the referendum. Imagine you governments, against the referendum. And you bring here, you bring here. The government paid against the referendum, so it's no use, you're paying if you're ashamed to bring this here. It sent you because you have to come, against the referendum campaign, the government paid, the ads on HTV, mostly on HTV, is that where you have influence. I think you're bringing here a call to European values. What kind of values do you call yourself? Answer free, you don't have to tell your colleagues I won't answer him. Answers, which is why the government was paying against the referendum campaign carried out by unions 67 is too much, I think is the correct name, why? Which is why for the President of the Republic and the Mayor, the mayor is being collected signatures that come to mind, and the referendum initiatives are limited to throwing 400,000 signatures into the trash can. You don't give us parliamentary deputies to see what's not right, no matter who's going to vote, I would give every question that the people disagree, the agreement, the opportunity for the people to plead and the will of the majority to prevail. But you don't have the courage, you're gravediggers of a referendum of civil initiatives and you may be ashamed and ashamed to bring this here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179578	We have a replica on your exhibit. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179579	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Bully, I'm interested in your opinion of whom is such a small turnout to the election? So I'm interested in whether it fits the political elites of HDZ and SDP? For what reason is this system created in such a way that we cannot vote electronically? And the second question that I am interested in, would you allow young people of 16 years to participate in this European citizens' initiative, and in the future perhaps to get the right to vote in local and national parliamentary elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179580	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179581	Thank you very much. As far as that may be... I think even legislative changes and proposals exactly how 16 years of them even if they can vote in all elections in the Republic of Croatia because simply that age limit should be reduced and the Triba should be included as many and more people as possible. And as far as it's concerned, to whom it suits, the Partocracy system, there's no difference. They have a problem if a third non-essential is formed who and if a third is teamed up. And both, that's ideal. It's your rule of partothocracy, so they've put together a system as they've agreed and that's how it works. You're not gonna be a minister, you're gonna be a deputy and it's gonna be... when they're in each other and they fit. The problem, however, is that both of them, and in particular the Plenkovic government and this unfortunately assembly of Parliament, killed the referendum and citizens' initiatives, killed the motive. That's why our young people are leaving, which is why 5% of the GDP of our young people who send money to their parents here is their goal to move Croatia and to just vote their voters... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179582	Thank you, Comrade Bull. This concludes the debate on the final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation No. 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on the European Civil Initiative, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 802, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I also inform you that tomorrow we start at 9.30, and the first is the proposal for a bill to declare Vukovar the place of a special country petite, first reading, P.Z. No. 808 and I wish everyone a pleasant afternoon, a pleasant day and a greeting. The session was interrupted at 15.21 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179583	We move to a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation No. 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 to the European Civil Initiative, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 802. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, MP Robert Podolnjak, MOST Representatives' Club and representative Stjepan Curaj. We move to the 1st Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State, Mr. Neelix.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all present. Therefore, since this Regulation is not to be adopted, the amendment is not to be adopted. Since this Regulation 2019/788 is directly applicable, the conditions for all citizens of the age at which it is prescribed and who acquire the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament shall be met, regardless of their status in each Member State where they are located.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179585	Thank you. How important the amendments to the SDP colleagues are from their presence, but we will vote on the amendment. We move to the amendment of the club of representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179586	The amendment is not accepted for a reason because, under the regulation, the minimum time for supporting the initiative should correspond to the age at which citizens gain the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. The lowest age of 18 years has been mentioned in the Republic of Croatia and has been established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or the Law on the selection of members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179587	Thank you. I welcome the presence of fellow Bulls. Here's your statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179588	Thank you very much. I don't think that young people should be afraid that the age of 18 should be reduced to 16 years, that age should be fit and age where they get votes in the elections and for the European Parliament, so we should involve young people, give them the right to vote, young people are educated. I know that would probably hurt, I know that I'm talking about civic initiatives, that you are, that these governments are gravediggers of civic initiatives, so they don't fit this downturn either. You have spit, this government has spit in the face of a referendum initiative, and here you are calling for a European directive of the European Council, decisions made and regulations of the European Council on citizens' initiatives. And in us, it spit in a civil initiative that raised the referendum issue of amending the electoral law. This government has spit in those people's faces, 400, you've killed every hope for a citizen's initiative. 400,000 signatures were collected to make Minister i.e. Plenkovic declared the missing 40,000. So is that more than embarrassing? You won't let people down for 16 years. So, civil initiatives are in civil society the ones that run, those who decide the referendum, we in Croatia have no chance of a referendum. We had two referendums that worked. Since the independence of the Republic of Croatia during Milosevic, a referendum of the "People's Decision" initiative has been conducted, which has collected 400,000 signatures under Plenkovic's boot. From independence, now imagine, the referendum initiative on amending the electoral law under your boot has not been implemented, and during Milosevic it was implemented. You're gravediggers of a referendum and civil initiatives and these are just... pamphlets. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179589	Of course you want a vote. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the amendment of the esteemed representative Robert Podlonjak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179590	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted, he is identical to the previous amendment of the Most Representatives' Club and we reject it with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179591	Thank you. Col. Podolnjak is also not present, we will vote on the amendment. We're moving on to the amendment of our esteemed colleague, Stephen Curray. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179592	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the Law on the register of voters prescribed that the register of voters is a collection of personal data about all Croatian citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens, as well as Croatian citizens and EU citizens who exercise electoral rights in the Republic of Croatia. Since voters of the Republic of Croatia are registered in the register of voters when they are 18 years old on the basis of the delivery of data by the competent authorities of the state administration, the same register is appropriate for the verification of the right to support the European citizens' initiative referred to in Article 6 of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179593	Thank you. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179594	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the question was, therefore, because under the European Commission regulation, it is enough for citizens to be adult, not to be included in the voter list, but there was a dilemma between voter terminology and census records, voters' lists and registers. Since you explained that it's a register, that we know that sometimes people who are more than 18 are not in that register or in the list, this is clear whether it's too fast to make that happen. However, with this explanation, it is now very clear that this cannot happen, that someone cannot fall out of that register. So, everyone will be able to get on that record, whether he's on the voters list or not, so I accept your explanation and withdraw this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179595	Thank you. You're withdrawing the amendment. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Neelic, for showing us about the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179596	Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on European citizens' initiative, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. number 802. The promoter is the government, the debate is closed, the amendments have been submitted by the SDP MPs' Club, MP Robert Podolnjak, the MOST advocates' club of independent lists and representative Stjepan Curaj. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Let's go in turn, first is the amendment to the Club of Representatives, fellow Bully, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179597	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, I am looking for a break from the Most Independent Lists, a 10-minute break, this is about citizens' initiatives calling for the EU, but the fact is that we are making this as standards we prescribe EU regulations and decisions, but the fact that this government, Plenkovic's government, is the gravestone of referendum initiatives. Therefore, gentlemen of 400,000 signatures are decided by the people of Istanbul, the truth about the Istanbul Convention did not allow citizens to plead on the citizens' initiative. Whoever will have the strength to launch any civil, referendum initiative, whether I agree or not, but today you will vote on this EU Regulation, and in fact you have annulled civil society, civil initiatives, only two referendums have passed in the free Republic. The first was when Croatia's freedom and independence was required, when it passed the referendum under Milosevic's regime, but under Plenkovic's regime and terror of democracy, over civil society, did not pass the referendum. It was not possible for the people to make a declaration about the people to decide on the electoral law and the truth about Istanbul. What did you do that for? The only other person who passed was the one about the family. I once again warned you of your hypocrisy, of your humiliation, of the EU, primarily of your leader. Well, we don't deserve it in the democratic Republic, so you fought or we fought the Croatian people to stop the referendums or to call referendums on the most important thing in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179598	Thank you. The apartment will be approved, of course. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Vučetić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179599	On behalf of the HSU Club, independent representatives, SNAGA and New Politics, I'm looking for a ten-minute break. Stanka is more connected to the next point, but I will formally tie her to the civil initiatives they aim to form a civil society. Civil society rests on a pythetic rather than on the prescription of pythetics, civil society is that society that rests on laws and patriotism that is formed in laws, not in the autonomous will of someone who has kidnapped patriotism and who believes that the interests of his groups and his groups are relevant to the state. That's not the way it is. The values of the state rest in the laws, the values of the state rest in freedom, the values of the Homeland War and all wars rest in the freedom and peace that came after that war. It is indeed necessary to understand that there is no form or civil society or patriotic society unless it stems from the power of the institutions and the power of the law. We are, as a civil society and as a civil state, extradited to many forms of pathology, which is why we need to take a break on behalf of our club to consider this item of the agenda, on citizens' initiative, but also on how public emotion develops within civil society and citizens' initiatives. It's not an emotion that's directed towards someone, it's an emotion that's aimed at building a civil society. That's why I think we need to step down, face all the pathologies we've created and take these pathologies out of our personal lives so that the Republic of Croatia can finally become a country in which the laws apply and in which the piety is revealed, and not prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179600	The apartment will be approved. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179601	Thank you very much. Dear President, you've injured item 236. Is the call for a break being called upon for a point under discussion. At this point, a debate was held on respecting everyone's right to take a break, i.e. the Council of Europe. Parliament on the European citizens' initiative. But the theme that was called this was now a break with respect for Vukovar's spot of pie. There's only so much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-11-0.u179602	I do not accept that there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because MP Vučetic has very clearly linked the request for a break to this agenda point. So I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. We'll continue at exactly 1:00 p.m. MEETING IN 12.50 HOURS My colleagues and colleagues are going with the amendments. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.02 HOURS]] So the first amendment of SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted by the government, so I'm asking that we vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 1. The club of representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And then we're going to the amendment also to the First Representative of Robert Dolnjak, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And Churay's last colleagues were withdrawn, so there's no need to vote on him. Well, then we're going to vote. Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation No. 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on the European Civil Initiative. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 102 votes for and 4 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation No. 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on the European Civil Initiative.
