ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142580	We would now move to the 1st point of today's agenda, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 636; Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, respected Ivo Milatic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. In front of you is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. The relevant law on the market in oil and petroleum products regulates, inter alia, the security of the supply of oil and petroleum products through mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products in accordance with Directive 2009/19 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 September 2009 on the obligation of Member States to maintain minimum stocks of crude oil or petroleum products. The EU has adopted a new Commission Implementing Directive 2018/158 of 19 October 2018 amending that Council Directive as regards the method of calculating the obligation to hold stocks. In line with the above amendments to EU legislation, this law addresses the problem of harmonising the definitions of oil and petroleum products and of the inadequacy of time limits for the formation and storage of compulsory supplies in a way that is now forming annual decisions instead of 1 April 1st July. Furthermore, this law mitigates restrictions on the possibility of keeping stocks outside the national territory of a Member State and should simplify and speed up the process of meeting the specific conditions and facilitate the implementation of the obligation to store the stocks. Also, since the extension of the control area, quality and quantity of oil and oil derivatives as defined by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce includes the entire market of oil and petroleum products, this law requires that quality control and the quantity of oil and petroleum products can be carried out exclusively by legal persons accredited by the Croatian accreditation agency as requested by the HRN EN ISO 17000020 A species which are independent inspection bodies and have an equal position on the international market for goods and services. In conclusion, this law aligns the inspection control provision with the State Inspectorate Act and regulates the infringement provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142582	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is respected...... Okay, you're later, but no problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash was the first to raise.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142583	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This amendment and the addition of the law bring in one newspaper, which is that mandatory oil supplies can be found in the territory of another country, i.e. that some other states can store their mandatory oil supplies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I am interested, therefore, in this provision is a newspaper, which was a reason, so whether there is an idea and if there is any indication that we will store our own mandatory oil supplies somewhere else, or perhaps there are some demands from some other states that want to do so on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I wonder if other EU members have such provisions as well because it is somewhat unusual for a country's mandatory oil supply to be stored in another country's territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142584	Thank you. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142585	Thank you. Dear Parliamentarian Mrak-Taritash, it is not a newspaper, and the existing law prescribed the possibility that stock obligations could be held in another Member State. Just so far, we've had to sign interstate contracts. So as is known and the Republic of Germany has had two interstate contracts with one with Germany, the other with Hungary and since the very establishment of the former Handa agency until today, one quantity of derivatives has been stored in the Republic of Germany. So there is no newspaper in terms of whether it is possible to keep it in another country, but this law and EU directives have simplified this procedure that interstate contracts should not be done, means that there are free other Member States in our country, and so do we. What I can tell this esteemed home, which is that one amount of derivatives still in Germany and as soon as the capacities are created in the Republic of Croatia, the same will be... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142586	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142587	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, my question was, now you've answered it, with how many countries we had an interstate contract, you say with Hungary and Germany. But, well, I'm curious, then, about these interstate contracts being no longer in what way does the market determine the price of storage in international circles? We saw there from the 2015 audit findings that the price, for example, was 1.9 euros per meter in Germany, while at the same time Janaf also charged 5 euros per meter per cubic meter. Okay, now, that's a different story. Maybe we'll talk about her a little later. But in what way, is the market really determining these prices in the international space and how these mechanisms are, because we see this report and the revision that one bidder usually appears, when it comes to it. In other words, the procedure will be simplified, but will this mean that the gas storage for the Republic of Croatia is being cheaped?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142588	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142589	You've already answered your question. The market determines the price of the lease, i.e. the warehouse. Each warehouse is determined by a public tender, so we simply win in a public tender what is only possible market profit. The price of the warehouse depends both on the capacity age and on the ecological and any other security of the same facilities. So you, it's true, there are some capacities that are offered very cheaply, but we're not so brave that at all costs we keep our derivatives. Our intensity, like the Ministry and the Agency, is that the derivatives are kept as modern and secure as possible storage facilities, and there we do not hide the satisfaction that in Croatia, especially in JANAF, a sufficient number of cubes of such capacities are created, and we hope that this will be the future, that we will have quality storage facilities in Croatia, and the price will clearly determine the market. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142590	The next replica is the respected representative of Lovrinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142591	Mr. Vice President. This statement of yours is a newspaper in the bill of law that strategic reserves can be held abroad and that without any agreement is simply scandalous. So you leave a picture of yourself there deposited in the bank, you have to write with a bank contract and imagine tomorrow that there are some international circumstances taking place, endangering the Republic of Croatia, not the one holding the oil reserves, he has no obligations to us, we don't need to sign contracts with that state, therefore, this is another reason for breaking sovereignty, the stability of the Republic of Croatia, and it's quite clear that you agree to everything someone else says. It is simply one mess that is further created, one additional uncertainty for the Republic of Croatia, and how can we even be sure how many supplies we have somewhere and who checked it out? That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142592	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142593	Dear Parliamentarian Lovrinović. You're absolutely wrong when you say it so casually and I can't support such a flat-rate, flat-rate finding that we're holding something somewhere and we don't know anything. That's not true. So this law and procedures and EU directives are clear. If someone from a foreign country, other Member States bring compulsory supplies to Croatia, that Member State has a guarantee that these supplies are there because the carbons Agency of this Member State will guarantee and report to that country in its control that these stocks are there. Also, BAFA, the German BAFA means an agency that is the ampar of our hydrocarbons Agency, reports to us neatly in monthly controls and documentation whether it is there. So it's not true, the EU is a regulated country, and how it would be if it could be put in such a way just not a necessary interstate contract given that we are members of the EU In that whole story. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142594	Thank you. Now we're gonna... Please, the discussion is over. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142595	The Honorable Vice President of HS. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs in HS. First of all, all the good mornings that we've come to this first item of the agenda today. So this law, by adopting this law, will bring national legislation into line with the EU acquis and will allow for easier implementation of the obligation to store mandatory oil and petroleum products, as well as better quality control and quantity of oil and petroleum products that occur in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Four are the basic papers in this law. These amendments and the amendments to the laws, which first extend these deadlines in which the Agency is required for, determine the stocks for the current year set by the Agency for Hydrocarbons. So now, on March 31st, it moves to 30.6., and with the deadline of 1st of April it moves to 1st of July. It is clearly stated in the explanation that this is due to the delay in data from the Bureau of Statistics, so that no permanent breach of those provisions would be made, these deadlines are also moving, but essentially nothing changes. The second amendment is to simplify the possibility of keeping supplies in other countries, meaning that interstate contracts should no longer be signed, as has been the case so far, but would be in accordance with Article. The 6th Law states that I will quote on this article, mandatory oil and oil products of the Republic of Croatia may be kept in the territory of another country in accordance with national legislation of that State, and the obligations of other countries may also be kept in the territory of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the prior approval of the Ministry. The Ministry is obliged to request the Agency's opinion prior to granting the approval. The third newspaper is also to determine that the quality and quantity of oil derivatives placed on the market and storage in warehouses is controlled by the legal person accredited according to the requirement of the HN NS ISO/IEC 17020 A-type standard, meaning that until now the applicable law has been omitted, it is now determined exactly who can determine the quality of liquid oil fuels and norms that prescribe the method of measurement and the method of calculating the quantity of goods. And the fourth newspaper is this law harmonizes the inspection control provision with the State Inspectorate Act. What is said here and what has started to be problematic is why we keep certain amounts of oil and oil derivatives in other countries, we have already heard that it has been possible by interstate agreement, now it is simplified, I don't see really any problem in this because, as we have heard and so far, we have kept both certain and kept and now a certain amount of supplies in Germany, I don't see any problem in this, but I also hope that as soon as we have built or prepared the appropriate warehouses or the appropriate conditions that we can store oil and oil products in the Republic, but I don't think there't have any problems in what they are currently being kept in other countries, just as the secretary of state, countries that respect all international norms and regulations, you finally asked Professor. Lovrinovic, why doesn't someone look after him, give me gold in someone else's land? So as far as I know, Croats are mass-saving in other countries too, so I don't see the problem and in the fact that in one orderly country, and I suppose all EU countries are meeting high criteria, that if we need it and we don't have enough of our capacities to keep some of our supplies and in other countries, I know that this is a subject that can always be troubled, but I repeat, this has been done and done now. Also, likely if we have enough capacity and we are competitive on the market, it is likely that someone in our country will someday keep some of their supplies because it will be cheaper and more suitable for him. The HDZ Club will support these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142596	Thank you very much. Comrade Lovrinović, are you sure you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142597	I'm sure Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142598	What's the injured Rules of Procedure, what's the point?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142599	A colleague, Felak, was injured by an officer. 238. Rules of Procedure, he polemed in his own stand-up with me, instead of talking about the subject, therefore, he could answer for my discussion that I reported, so ask the question, he's polluting with me, you understand, I know that HDZ is failing, so now they want to calculate with everyone here in HS, therefore, you don't care about these strategic reserves, you're selling anyway. all over the place. [[Employer: A colleague of Lovrinović...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142600	...you are aware that you have violated the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I am giving you a warning, as I will give each and every one of the following a warning that violates and abuses the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to the next club of representatives, it's the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Tomislav Panenić will speak on behalf of the club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142601	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected state secretary with associate, colleague and colleague, of course, that the issue of mandatory oil supplies is one of the strategic issues that every country is trying to compensate for because of any event, so we saw that the issue of gas supplies when the supply difficulties occurred was crucial for us, and there we had a quality good answer, underground gas storage... it responded to the crisis it had at the time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, no one's going to polymize here whether we need it or not. What is very important, except for these supplies that can be material, means that in the form of derivatives or oil itself, or they can be equally material in form, immaterial in the form of an optional purchase is something that cannot ensure constant security. For continued safety, we have preconditions, natural preconditions, which is the potential that is still explored, which, where oil is drawn in the area of the Republic of Croatia. We also have that potential that's still unexplored, we see that there's an interest in it, and that's the wealth that we have and that we can respond to any crisis, but that this potential that exists would compensate maybe for any supply problems from these supplies, what should exist? There should be refinery processing, a refinery processing that can meet all the challenges, and in that part, I fear that this government that should represent Croatian interests now is not certain of this trail, but favours MOL in their intention that the refinery capacities, primarily here we see in Sisak, but I am convinced that this will happen with Rijeka, will permanently close. In that case we really depend only on oil, on the oil processing that comes from other countries, so whether we've secured the mandatory supplies out there will be so irrelevant that we'll have to get everything from abroad anyway. Our raw oil can only be seen as being able to reprocess in future time into some foreign refinery and hope that in the event of formation, events of certain disadvantages could actually produce products that we need from it, oil processing. Whether it will then be the interest of some other countries, whether they will say that our refinery facilities are available to you, rework your oil or they will say, no, no, we have ownership of your oil company, that oil company draws, we also have contracts with JANAF that cannot be changed we have seen when the Most Independent Lists submitted a request to reduce the share of sulphur in crude oil that transports primarily the part that is transported to the Bosnian Ship is said to be such solid international contracts that would cause considerable damage to the Croatian economy where we would pay for the penalty, that this is more important to this government than what is the health of people living in the environment of the Bosnian Ship or on our part of Slavonski Brod. So let's not mess with international contracts because our health isn't so valuable, if we see a health situation, then we have an even bigger problem, we can't answer that health threat, so let's say here, we're going to resuscitate the consequences of what happened on the Bosnian ship. It seems to me that we, more and more become transit and often we mention that word, transit across the country, a transit country through which we can go through anything we want, but when we need something, it doesn't happen. We pass through raw materials that someone else processes, we see people and migrants passing through, and some others who have no intention of keeping themselves in our territory at all. This oil will pass the same way that we won't process it, and we're here to discuss mandatory oil and oil supplies and to talk about what's strategic or not. Well, it's strategically all we can produce in any situation that we're being isolated as a state because of any event. This is what happened to us at the beginning of the Homeland War, you think that they were running to help us all, or they all moved away, and you said to each other, and we'll see how the situation was going to develop and in this state when many Croatian citizens were killed, then the international community said, "We should help this Croatian people well, and we started to help, but if we expected from the beginning that we didn't have our oil processing, if we didn't have our capacities, we would have quickly ended the Homeland War and said we didn't fall for the sake of not the heroism of Croatian defenders, but we fell down because of what we had run out of oil, we lost all that supply, we were left without being able to defend ourselves. And there's the biggest problem. This whether there will be something less or more oil in Germany, whether it will be in material form or in an optional purchase, believe me, that no matter how much we discuss here is less relevant than whether we can activate our oil supplies, whether we can process them, whether we can provide domestic market supplies based on them and that we have a position, as we had a position with Croatian gas, that we can say in our environment we have managed to overcome the crisis, the economy has suffered minimal damage, and some others who have not thought so have actually had unfavourable economic consequences, and we can see that from these considerations we never know what situation can happen. Sometimes it is not just economical, but it can also be a violation of strategic positions, military positions of the Republic of Croatia that we have to take care of. But I will once again, as I have pointed out to the Secretary of State and the Committee, show my dissatisfaction for not ruling, taking into account the possibility to limit the transport of oil by our system, the JANAF system and to prevent the possibility of processing such oil and endangering the health of the population in Slavonski Brod and the environment. They did something like that even in the Republic of Serbia, and they constraint against Panchev that oil could be up to a maximum of 1 share, a percentage of sulphur, until we did so. And then we wonder why, what we are protecting, are we protecting our interests, protecting the strategic interests of Russia that it has in the refinery of the Bosnian ship where they control both the economy there and the political control, should we then talk here about not wanting Russian influence if we help it in our environment where it is inevitable that it will spill over to us. In fact, what influence do we prefer, we see that we are always talking about the influences that are better for us is that they are Western, some represent that they are eastern, only when we need to talk about national interests where we do not need foreign influence, where we only need to take care of ourselves, our strategic goals, our goals, our population's goals, then at the speed of this oil becomes just a source in our country and become a consumer, and everything that results in economic incomes, profits, processing, at capacity we have declared invaluable. Because of what MOL said, they're not worth it and I trust them, I trust MOL not to pay them off. MOL is not such a big campaign, they don't need 4 refineries, they need two, one in Hungary, one in Slovakia, one in Slovakia, modernized and we neither made them modernise, they didn't honor that part of the contract, and we stopped them from affecting the political structures that will one day say, yes, it's economically invaluable, yes, today it might be economically invaluable to invest more than 10 years ago, today it would be worth it, it would be worth it, it's worth modernized refineries that can, under the most economically favourable conditions, produce oil derivatives. Obsolete refineries can't be worth it. But we see that we support both economically invaluable and in the neighborhood, and we also endanger the health of citizens. And around the formation of the stock itself, we are talking about significant amounts where here we are and knowing the situation as the former resolute minister I know that the renewal of supplies is demanding, that we fail to meet these requirements, that we need to invest very much in oil supplies so that they can be usable, oil cannot stand forever in the same form, it should, and oil processing, should be bought from time to time new quantities, sell old quantities. That's something that's lost, it might sometimes be speculant and it gets but what's worrying, which we had in 2015, is that the state audit literally broke down the Oil Agency, the oil derivatives, the HANDA, where they showed them an unfavourable opinion. The agency received an unfavourable opinion as a number of failures were observed, very, professionally, demandingly, professionally and demandingly explained. Also, the facts they brought out of the HANDA, but what stands, which was that there was still a lack of respect for many legal provisions. How will we form our strategic stock, how will we be sure that what is in some tanks there, as we will be sure that optional purchases are valid if we have people who act in a way that violate Croatian laws and should actually be a confidant in protecting any crisis situation in the Republic of Croatia. And that's what worries, unfortunately, and everywhere in Croatia when there's a lot of money going around somewhere, especially money in areas where very few people know the topic, then there's also the interests of mechanics who quickly exploit supplies, not only oil, we've seen that there's other goods too, there's been manipulation with unknowing wheat or other agricultural products. In Djakovština, it's gone, someone just lit it up so we can say Colloquial, there's no such thing. This way should also be more effective in monitoring whether all oil supplies are exactly where they stand that they should be, as their movement is, whether someone is on us on Croatian citizens who invest in refurbishment through the state budget and storage generates additional profits. Because it's very easy to get who's capable of mixing, so you sell a little bit, buy a little. It is important that at some point when agreed to determine that there will be control of this oil is there and in the meantime what is the usual practice is happening especially in countries such as ours where there is weak control, where weak political structures to manage the supplies in a way that individuals or certain groups earn their personal profits. And it's a great danger and it's a great threat. And that's where we can discuss it. And I would sometimes, believe me, be happier that maybe our oil supplies are in Germany because it seems to me that one Germany is a better guarantee than we can be in our own country. But so that we don't discuss this control, control and control itself, and also be prepared not only for our supplies to be material, optional, but also for real capacities that can create oil processing at any time, especially in those moments when the crisis occurs, we won't be able to count on getting from any other source. We now had a crisis in the Middle East, Arab countries across, oil prices were going wild, and there could be a drop in deliveries. At one point something you've rented doesn't exist anymore and there's something you should buy you can't, you're not in the front row or possible under some favourable conditions, and then there's a crisis, then you need to be able to overcome the problems we have. And that's why the secretary of state here is this change, we can say still in one smaller scale but the problems... They're much bigger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142602	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142603	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today and today, the situation of the legitimacy of the decisions made by this Assembly has not been resolved, and neither has this issue with oil derivatives. You all know that the majority in this House is a commercial majority, that it is collected by blackmail and political trade and that people who voted against one policy in the end have turned to the same policy that voters voted against in the Parliament. The voters punished such behaviour in the elections, and we all saw that HDZ halved its support among the citizens and that there was a fact that they had experienced a fiasco. For this is the most responsible HDZ president who has managed to dissipate the people from the country and is now dissipating voters from his own party. Unfortunately, both the state and its party are hostages of the same person. The person forced ruling majority representatives, HDZ to vote against their consciences on ideological issues and on real estate taxes and on labour until 67. Thank you. [[Intruder: Comrade Pernar, we are talking about the Law on the Oil and Oil Market, just to remind you, if you have forgotten.]] The HDZ deputies I spoke with, which is more or less all of them, were all against real estate taxes, against working until 67 and against being coerced against their conscience, and therefore the totalitarian person, Andrej Plenkovic, suffered a defeat in the elections. By liquidating Darko Milinovic, who brought to HDZ as many as 50% of the votes in Lika and pushing for new elections in the early locals, HDZ also experienced a political breakdown where support was also halved. I say all this because if it is clear that HDZ no longer enjoys support, barely a fifth of the electoral body, and all its coalition partners together have less than 5%, and some not even 0.5%, the question must be asked whether this parliamentary majority is competent to make decisions, including this law. I know that you must protect him, but this man did not protect his predecessors, he said that...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142604	I have warned you very nicely that you are talking about the subject and in accordance with article. 238, I now give you a warning. You keep talking, maybe you'll get another one, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142605	The Honorable Chairman Reiner. If I can't talk here, I'll keep quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142606	No, you have to talk about the subject, read your Rules of Procedure at last, so you'll understand how you can act in the Parliament, absolutely legally, legitimately and speak whatever you want. But you can't, when it comes to the oil and oil products market, talk about space routes, for example. You can't and you can't finally read that Rules of Procedure once.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142607	The Honorable Chairman, yesterday the President of the Parliament, your superior Jandrokovic, told you that it was not forbidden to remain silent, I will, in my silence, say everything I think about this law and the way in which democracy has actually been suspended in HS and the one-brained Brussels-type has been introduced. .../ The speaker shuts up about the pay phone. The speaker is silent behind the pay phone. I hope that after you have banned me from saying that there will be no silence in the Croatian Parliament soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142608	Thank you very much. You obviously didn't have anything to talk about, so you didn't talk about it, so we're going to go to the next Club of Representatives, and that's GLAS and HSU in the name of the respected representative, Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142609	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. After this very interesting debate with 11 minutes of colleague Pernar silently, I would return to the topic and this is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. These changes and additions can somehow be structured into three groups or three themes. One thing is to comply with EU directives and it is good to coordinate in time and do it right. The second topic that opens up again is that we have here, who will be doing inspection surveillance, and apparently this transfer from individual ministries to inspection and the amendments to the law will drip and drop more drops per drop while the individual ministry sees the regulations that need to be defined. And the third topic is actually through a debate that was and which we have put as a replica on the opening exhibition, which is the supply of oil and energy stability of the Republic of Croatia. When you are discussing oil and oil derivatives, you cannot argue in context not to mention what is really everyday and should not be very wise that we all do not see together that the month of May 31 days was about 27 rainy days or climate change that has become everyday but I would actually like to concentrate this debate and start first of inspection and then through the energy stability of Croatia and end a little with climate change and what are refineries and how many we have and how many we do not have and what we need to do with them. The first and basic subject of inspection, so with April 1st, that great inspectorate was created. Not only are all the regulations or all the laws that should have been amended that this inspectorate could function obviously not have been made regardless of the Legislative Committee, every time an individual resolution came, I would have asked me if it was the last contingent of your laws, they said that they did not actually say that your resolutions do not know where all the laws should be made, because it would have been much more correct that there was a new year and a law passed, all the amendments and additions to that package that should be amended where Ministry inspectors go to that large inspectorate. With this topic that some laws are applicable or not in relation to the field, perhaps a little less significant but what's more important is that when you talk to your workmates a little bit, they're still sitting in the ministries where they were, they formally have a solution to work at the inspectorate but sitting there, the inspectorate hasn't yet started working in a way that people have moved and let alone otherwise. So all that in that great inspectorate said when the debate was here proved true, I'd rather not, I'd always rather not, always prefer that we as an opposition warn and that the result is somehow different but we'll have one body that will be around 2,000 employees somewhere and the Chief State Inspector will certainly have one 5.6 coordinator to coordinate. So every time you have to say that you just can't put different topics in the same place, somehow you always seem to have to give me a chance but if we start to know that something isn't right, that's what we should talk about. The second topic is the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia. There is no strategic document that speaks of energy, no matter what aspect, which, when we have it, we are not in favour of Croatia being energy independent, it is simply not so. This is what we saw during the last Homeland War and I can say about the transport of electricity how much that energy went across the territory of some other countries and that we... All means and effort should actually be invested to just transfer the energy properly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is made of infrastructure and well done in Croatia is the transfer of oil. So we have the pipeline, you know the pipeline, when it comes to electricity, about wire, your wire can go a little left, a little right. When it comes to pipelines, the pipelines can do exactly as they go and that's kind of our advantage. That is why I also asked the Secretary of State if there are interests of some other countries to keep their mandatory reserves on the territory of the country. It's logical that if you don't have the capacity to own that you can hardly do anything else but maybe it's something that would be worth investing in and worth investing in, it's worth investing in to boost your capacity, that you have all your oil supplies on your territory, and then offer some other countries to keep their oil supplies for them too. But what's about energy independence is one of the key things, it's oil processing. In the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we had a refinery in Sisak and a refinery in Rijeka. The refinery in Sisak doesn't work, it'll never work again, no matter what the situation, all aspects, it'll never work. The closure of the refinery required a comparison with the investor next. It demanded that this and would be required and one would be too much of a state, one too much government after you really came to the situation that you know that it would no longer be there, that the whole space would be re-furbished to something else, to be some other activity, but also to re-recover that space in terms of and from the aspect of environmental protection because for certain years and years of production that were in some other conditions and under some other criteria than today have left lasting consequences. Let's say the Netherlands, when you build anything and dig anything, the land you dig up has to be treated differently because of the pesticides that were used at all. We do not take care of this and will certainly have potential spaces that will be incomparably dangerous from the aspect of environmental protection, i.e. leave a certain trauma in space and then, of course, for the people who live around it. The river refinery, it wasn't invested. It will have to be due to the aspect of environmental protection at some point to stop production because today, there is no related to environmental protection at all, is a question of how. They get some environmental permits that are a year, two, and then there won't be any economic elements anymore, but simply it will be a potential ecological bomb. And that's something that's, you know, when you miss something hard to get back. What was to be taken into account was to make sure that MOL was forcing all possible things to modernize, even if it had given up two refineries to have one that would certainly be with some other things Sisak rather than Rijeka, but that then there's one that you have to modernise, that you invest in, that you invest in from the aspect of the new regulations because all the new regulations are stricter and all the new things that are done are certainly incomparably better than what we have. And in doing so, you have a refinery next door in Brod and where we know that Slavonski Brod suffers even though there are regulations about between, therefore, cross-border influences and everything else, but those living in Slavonski Brod can sit there in hot cafes along the Sava River and look across the river which actually without any control can produce oil and refineries that work from the aspect of climate change certainly affect climate change. The countries which are members of the EU set themselves up during this programming period, which goes into 2020 and 2027, respectively, to fight climate change. And absolutely investing in everything that needs to improve the situation because no matter how small you seem, you always influence climate change and that they are facts, there's no need to prove anything to anyone else. And instead of actually taking care of this aspect and affecting both MOL and everything else where it produces, let it produce further, but let it change because at some point it will have to, I think it does, at some point it won't be able to get an environmental license and it'll have to stop. It's final. Oil supplies are the country's strategic interest, each country has its own strategic interests to have supplies of certain, so food, over oil, through some other things. It's one thing to have supplies and another to have production. What goes the way, I'm afraid someone else or we ourselves will talk about the river refinery that will no longer be in this House for a few years. But what we need to take care of, we need to keep an eye on when we're talking about protecting the environment that these spaces are and if there's nothing we need to take care of. But what I'm quite sure of is that you need oil supplies on your territory. That you can also have the potential to offer it to someone else, but what we easily accept is that our oil supply is on some other territory, in the territory of another country absolutely needs to be pictured and run some different policies. Otherwise, we in GLAS are absolutely thinking and thus saying that Croatia can only develop hand-to-hand parallel with other EU member states. We have absolutely clear pro-European policies, we advocate to be an active player on that playground called the EU, but we are equally clear, and we are sure that what we are talking about in energy independence Croatia should be energy independent for the simple reason that this gives you a committee, gives you security, and in that sense the result of such a law should be, regardless of what it says, that we really try and build and capacity when it comes to oil supplies in our own territory. Of course, these amendments to the law are in line with the directive. In connection with the inspection, no matter how many months you find and in six months some law mentioning that there is an inspector in your ministry you will come with an amendment and a supplement, you will be covered by your ears because you have forgotten it but you must do it. But when it comes to such a law really challenges and somehow to talk about other things and these other things are a strategic commitment to energy stability and something to talk about all the time and what we in this House have forgotten about it is environmental protection, or climate change, for the simple reason that the whole of Europe and the whole world are struggling, we pretend it has nothing to do with us. There is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142610	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is one of the Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142611	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to say a few things about these amendments to this law in a brief discussion and I will immediately say in the beginning of me personally and my colleagues from the club do not worry what this law says, but what it does not say. And there's the whole problem and of course this legislative amendment will be supported because there's no reason not to support it. This is what the predecessors said, and the State Secretary himself said in his introduction that three important things are changing because it is practically impossible, as stated in the explanation, to form mandatory stocks for the current year in the prescribed deadlines that are too short, so they extend by 3 months, I don't know why for 3 months it is likely that the Directive also prescribes this. The second thing is to abolish the obligation of interstate agreements, I read in an agreement with Germany, the secretary of state said there is an agreement with the Republic of Hungary, if there are clear rules at EU level regarding obligations for those countries in which storage is being held, in whose area another state stores its energy, then there is no need for such agreements. We hope that's it, and it's settled in a courteous world. And the third thing is about the State Inspectorate, so that the State Inspectorate takes over the affairs of the inspection, that's still in a series of laws that we should have changed in order to, given the formation of the State Inspectorate and, in that sense, in the future, think, not only about this law now, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides to set up its administration in a way that would be more effective than the Assembly and the entire public, but simply solves it faster, more expedientally. The government has the right to organise how it thinks it is most effective for the benefit of all citizens, and not so that we change 100 laws just because, in other words, this could be resolved by the Law on Design, the formation of a government or a ministry. What is most important when we talk about these legal changes and yesterday we had the opportunity to talk in the Croatian Parliament, the truth of another topic about matter, energy and a little bit of money, but today we are talking about matter, energy and a little bit more money. In fact, according to the laws of physics or matter or energy cannot disappear, they can only move from one form to another is the Energy Conservation Act. But when it comes to money, there are other laws. And money can come out, and it happens to you that if it shouldn't come out in the pockets of those in whose pockets it shouldn't be. Namely, what it is, perhaps when I was in the opening, after the opening statement asked the Secretary of State, what should be determined all when it comes to money and cash flows is the market. It may seem to me that if things were left to the market in many segments, it would be much better and much more advanced. However, it is clear to all of us that there are no, that all things must not be left to the market, and among other things, there is a safe supply to the energy supply, so this cannot be left to the market itself. It is not just a case for the Republic of Croatia, which is a small country within these frameworks and within the EU of 28 countries, that is actually what all EU countries are thinking about. Here's just some data, the largest primary energy production has France, it participates in the total production of 28 EU countries with 17.3%, the United Kingdom 15.8%, Germany 15.3%. What should be pointed out is that France gets most of the 80% of its energy from nuclear, nuclear energy. Belgium 3/4 is energy, Slovakia 3/5 is energy. When it comes to renewable sources at EU level, about 1/4, slightly more than 1/4 or 27.9% of renewable energy. What we can generally say is that there is a correlation between the need for energy imports and the size of the country or the number of inhabitants, other than Poland, where there are different legalitys because there are certain supplies of coal. Much of the energy and that's the biggest problem when we talk about security of supply, much of the energy is imported from a relatively small number of partners. So at EU level 3/4 or 77.1% of natural gas is imported from Russia, Norway and Algeria. 2/3 or 68.2% of solid fuels from Russia, Colombia and Australia and just over half of the 52.6% of crude oil from Russia, Norway and Iraq. What should be pointed out, and related to this law and what I said or related to what is not written in this law, is related to the findings of the audit which is still there in 2017, and regarding the revision of the years was in 2015 where he ordered that rules should be laid down in detail in the way and structure of the formation and management of stocks. I don't know if the agency has passed those rules, it's primarily about buying supplies, and then selling supplies because in history we saw that there was a significant deviation of prices from the amount of the price that, at which certain supplies were being bought and would later be sold at a higher price. The other thing is the capacity to keep those supplies. It is good, and I agree with the Secretary of State and the Republic of Croatia now has made significant steps in capacity building, only then again the question of building capacity in what way, whether it is being treated rationally and whether we will have a significantly more expensive storage of these supplies in those capacities, because here was an example of being in Janaf's 5-euro tanks, while, for example, in a private container in Zadar there was 2, 2 and a half EUR per m3, and in Germany 1.9 per m3. So these differences of course in JANAF explained that they also calculated the cost of building themselves, in fact, all the costs that come with such containers. So, there was Omislj, here about Zagreb or anywhere else the code works, that is actually to take care of the economics of the containers themselves, the management of the supplies is very important because it will depend on the end and the price of the energy that citizens buy because at the end of the day citizens are always paying, and even though this deadline is extended by 3 months for stock formation, it is not good to extend the deadline on which the stocks are being determined and this was the same objection at that time of the state audit, I hope that the plan was made, there was an objection that 5 days, by 5 days, the observed period, so the supplies, are determined, are larger quantities of supplies, than the legislation prescribed. I don't know if and now it's possible, to determine a larger quantity of supplies because it automatically means higher storage costs, and then it's possible to manipulate those supplies in the amount they're already for. So, as far as the legal proposal itself is concerned, we have no objection to it, but as far as everything the agency is doing in this serious business is concerned, it is not negligible, when it comes to large quantities, it is not negligible at which price a particular service is agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142612	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142613	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, unfortunately, will not do any good for the Republic of Croatia to decide on the market itself, but on prices, supplies and independence on the purchase and distribution of oil products. Unfortunately, the people are free as independent, and they are independent if they have the basic needs for the functioning of society in their own hands, if they decide what they will do and how they will manage them, how they will distribute them and what their price will be. Among these basic raw materials are as the first water necessary for the life of every living creature, we see that we have recently left it in the hands of strangers, which is unacceptable and directly high treason. Energy, including oil, whose market we are talking about today, is also no longer under the influence of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian authorities to dispose of it. Despite the fact that we had an INA company that was far stronger at the time that MOL bought it than it was MOL. We had a company that had developed research, we had exploitation, we had fields that were abroad, unfortunately today, I can say, we don't have any more of that. They are in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but with them the masters and with the fate of what is drawn from the depths of the Croatian soil, lords of someone else, not Croats. So we absolutely don't affect the price of fuel, and we know how important fuel is to all of us in the Republic of Croatia because we all use it in some way, whether we drive, whether we use electricity or any other way. With oil, there's electricity, there's gas that's also not under the influence of the Republic of Croatia, we know who's mastering the gas, despite what we've got at sea sites, which we have a lot of locations in the Republic of Croatia on land, we have a large storage area of natural gas in the environment, but we're having less or less impact on it. There are communications, telecommunications, internet traffic we've also left to foreign companies, we've sold Telekom, road infrastructure that's a little bit, so someone gets the idea of trying to privatize them, and one of the important facts is information, information flow, i.e. The channels for their distribution electronically, we also left it to the foreigners. Another important thing for the functioning of a free society of independence of Croatian people is food, but it is also a matter of the fact that foreigners are lords of resources for food production in the Republic of Croatia, 33,000 hectares are left to new owners of former Agrokor who are also not Croats, new regulations are adopted, new rules for which private land is to be braked, its distribution, use by 2020 when in the Republic of Croatia free power will buy land. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia has not requested an extension of the moratorium for another 3 years. and as of next year, foreigners will be free to buy agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, so that even though agriculture has been destroyed, we will have even less power to manage the resources needed for the free functioning of society. It means that the Republic of Croatia will not be free society, that the Croats will not master anything, not one major resource, and that this country will remain only an anthem and a flag, everything else will be in foreign hands. The biggest part of this law is compliance with EU directives. I agree, we have come to the EU, we have to respect their legislation, but I think we respect it too well and we need to fight a little more for our rights and within that EU. Yes Croatia, i.e. Croatia's leaders do not care about oil, oil prices, distribution, processing, and the closure of the Sisak Refinery, which began working there sometime after 1927 when work was created on Shell's distillation plant. Imagine, Shell is a world-renowned and large company, decided to make a refinery in Sisak in 1927, thought it was a strategic place for a refinery, and today, Croats holding hands on their hearts and drilling themselves into patriotism closed that refinery. Is that high treason, too? It's for me. Because the refinery in the central part of Croatia shut down for the sake of alien interests is high treason. To remind you that the Sisak Refinery is on an oil pipeline that comes from Rijeka to Sisak, from Sisak goes to Virje towards the Hungarian border, from Sisak goes to the ship where the Bosnian Ship is powered by the refinery, to Novi Sad, to Pancheva because I think there is no better place for a refinery than this. It's on the Sava-Dunav waterway, and all these years in the last country it's been working, it's been important, and you know how much it meant to us in the Homeland War? All those who are calling for defenders today, to the Homeland War, to the fact that we have fought in that war, forget that the great role of Rafinery Sisak has played in this struggle. And now we're closing it, so we're giving up what we fought for in the '90s. We also privatized Petrochemy Kutina. So we cut off another independence of the agricultural independence of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people is the production of food for food production, so the fertiliser feeds the agricultural cultures of which the Croatian people feed. Petrochemistry, which is the largest consumer of gas in the period where gas is least used, is the summer period, 650 million cubic metres a year, and the largest underground warehouse, i.e. The only thing we have is 500 million cc's. What is also important and evident and can be predicted, is that both JANAF and Plinacro are clearly on target for sale. How do you do it for privatisation because once upon a time someone else said that we had to privatize all state-owned companies. So then we privatize our state-owned companies in a way that we sell them to other state-owned companies like German telecoms, such as Hungarian MOL or I don't know which other. JANAF has a storage area of 500 thousand cubic metres of crude oil and derivatives near the refinery Sisak. We closed the refinery next to it, we don't have any such storage space for crude oil as it exists in Sisak on a waterway, at the intersection of the pipeline. I predict that soon this JANAF will be sold to someone, as well as Plinacro because I have already heard that employees complain that their salaries have fallen, that they have begun to accumulate losses, because that is exactly how Croatian companies are exhausted and lead to a situation that must be privatised by force, sell some foreign arms. In Croatia, we have the lowest fee for exploiting the mineral treasure. The HSS club tried to influence the increase in the fee by only 2%, which would be nearly half as much as in Hungary, however, the government of the Republic of Croatia did not want to accept those 2%. We also wanted the distribution to be greater in favour of local self-government units, and they didn't want that either. We see in what interest concerns Croatia, apart from the big growth story, how we will make Switzerland here, how we should use EU funds because it is obviously our salvation. However, do not think that someone in this world is giving someone something without expecting him more than he has given them. All these great forces that give us something through the EU have robbed a series of colonies and have created their own countries out of it. They're also robbing us in a nice way now, and as Croats, we don't know how to stand up to it. We sell, give into the hands of our wealth rather than save them for the Croatian people and use them and make profit on them to make Croatia progress. There is no production, no hands of your own, and trust in and in your pecks, this country will never go forward. Those who think they're going to live as servants and make money on it, they're wrong because tomorrow their children will live and their children's children are out there, and they can't supply anyone for life, they're going to get it all back to their heads. The laws this government writes, sends to the Parliament, we are trying here to indicate that they are not good for Croatia, that they do not solve enough good questions basic to be resolved. Unfortunately, they are being treated here, discussed and voted in the fifth the way someone wants there in the government just to show that this administration is doing something. I ask you when was the last time we passed a quality law in this House that we are all satisfied with it and that it is for the benefit of the Croatian people, that it is simple and that in the service of the Croatian people and the improvement of the Republic of Croatia. I don't remember him. It's all empty stories, toothpicks, games, what kind of things. Let's remember the Borg group, lex Agrokor. Well, that's the biggest scam in the last few years. I'm asking you once when we'll start passing laws for the Croats, for Croatia, when we'll stop playing patriots and really be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142614	The next representative is the SDP on behalf of whom the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142615	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, it is impossible not to talk about this law, not to speak without mentioning certain things that are being dragged around it. So the fact is that this law should be implemented and brought into line with certain directives adopted at EU level, and the fact is that the problem and the definition of certain legal provisions such as oil supplies, oil derivatives and certain deadlines that are important for the formation and preservation of mandatory supplies but this topic is too broad and too heavy for the Republic of Croatia to be reduced to a mere debate on the harmonisation of the directive, the EU Directive with Croatian legislation. Yesterday, the foreign minister of the Republic of Hungary, Sijarto, came to the Republic of Hungary for an official visit yesterday and made an amazing statement, says the problem between INA and MOL is those problems that are bilaterally plagued by the Republic of Hungary and we would like to address them. Now, what Croatia would like to solve in these relations would allow us to talk here for hours. But the fact that the Republic of Hungary and its policy, which is deeply related to INA MOL and specifically to MOL, has been burdening with MOL these bilateral relations over the past maybe tens of years. So the fact is that MOL has led our company in the past period to close the refinery in Sisak today, to ask the question, and to wonder how the Refinery will end in Rijeka, and what will ultimately be left of our former, i.e., company INA, if it will be just a wholesale sale for Hungarian oil derivatives. And that's what needs to be said very clearly and that's what Mr. Foreign Minister Hungary has persistently kept quiet and is giving lessons here and talking about how these problems should be solved because they burden our two countries. They're absolutely burdensome, but I don't see them the way he sees them, nor would he solve them in a way that the Hungarian Foreign Minister would solve them. And when he says that this has nothing to do with politics, it is enough to look at the Hernada case and the cases before the Croatian judiciary in the way they went and the verdicts that were made here to bribe the former president of the HDZ and the Croatian prime minister and then to look at what was happening in the Republic of Hungary at the same time, that is how they treated Hernadi who did not de facto or the hair from the head fell or practically kept his status in the Republic of Hungary and had protection and the same policy and that same Sijart who gave us lessons here yesterday. So it is clear that this is a political issue, it is clear that the Croatian government has failed to resolve this political issue for many years and the most important thing that should be solved is the regulation, the issue of ownership of the company, or the influence of the Republic of Croatia on the management of the INA today in the Republic of Croatia. It has been almost 2.5 years now, slightly less than Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's pompous announcement that Croatia will buy the INA. Nothing like a number of other things in the Republic of Croatia about these decisions and sensational announcements has happened, nothing Andrej Plenkovic, the HDZ government and our Croatian energy independence have done, nothing will happen in the next year and a half of the term, and we will wait for some other moments, some other time to resolve these issues. So once again I say here, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no INA solution, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no way of buying INA from Hungary, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Andrej Plenkovic did nothing to offer a solution to Croatian citizens and then they wonder when HDZ gets the worst support ever in the elections in the Republic of Croatia when they experience a fiasco and a flood in the debacle elections that probably no other party will experience for a long time to halving the electoral body compared to what they had 5 years ago. It is normal that HDZ has experienced a debacle and that even bigger debacles will experience in the future, given that it refers to Croatian citizens and the Croatian state in the way that the trust it has received is not justified, nor will it justify it, nor will it respect the needs of Croatian citizens at all, and the needs of Croatian citizens are simple, you give us to work and to live from it in a normal dignified way. How are employees in Sisak going to work now where all jobs are likely to be shut down? As workers in Rijeka will work, for years probably less and less employees, I am not only talking about shipbuilding, but also, of course, because it is about the Law on the Market of Oil and Oil Products in the Refinery in Rijeka, and it is normal for people to see that there is no sign of the HDZ Government and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and of all those working with him in the process. It's really paradoxical, but it should be noted, and a little bit, I would say, too harshly and too nervously those who run HS resonate and act when it is warned that at this point the Croatian government does not have any 30% support, when all these parties around HDZ are added together as they passed in the European elections, that they run the Republic, so what are they going to solve? What kind of legitimacy and strength can they show towards the Hungarian side? In fact, the best solution for the Republic of Croatia would be to call parliamentary elections immediately, at this point, so that some government that has legitimacy and support of citizens could continue the country in the way that it should continue, that the parties that are raised here, purchased in HS, MPs who changed hundreds of uniforms, eventually decide whether and how the Republic of Croatia will return control of the INA, so it makes no sense, so that Hungarians are laughing, so of course they can't do anything, it's normal for Sijarto to come here to the Croatian government and teach all of us, to give us a face and ultimately simply collect the benefits that the Hungarian side gets at this moment from the work that MLA is doing with the INA and the way he uses it, I would tell our oil company, to make it more and better use of it. And of course, the only solution that is possible at this point in time is that we are forced to get some legitimacy where people who decide would have behind them and voters' votes and allow the government to work in the best and simplest way possible with full rights and full legitimacy that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic does not have. And of course we can pass any law, including this one, but we will not solve the issues that plague our citizens, we will not launch our production, we will not solve the problem of non-quality air in Slavonski Brod, we will not solve the high price of oil and oil derivatives that are currently on the part of the Republic of Croatia, over £10.00, meaning, constant growth in the next few months and years, so all of those problems that Croatian citizens have, which are tormenting them, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic will not be able to solve. And then when the press asked him here yesterday in front of HS how the purchase was going and if they had discussed the purchase of INA from MOL, he was very incomprehensible about something Mr. Prime Minister and then he just threw it to talk about it. So, in particular, no solutions exist, our government is unfortunately in huge problems and within the ruling coalition and, unfortunately, within the ruling coalition, these people have no alternatives, so they will hold on to HDZ as long as they are able, but what comforts us, in a year, a year and a half, the parliamentary elections will come at the latest when people will be able to refer to everything that their HDZ colleagues have done so far, and that is one big nothing, or situation that is now in the Republic of Croatia and related to the interests of Croatian citizens, is much worse than it has ever been. And on this side, here, we can support such laws that come as some framework that we have adopted as a member state of the EU, but we cannot talk about the problems that the Republic of Croatia has and the priorities that the Croatian government has. If the priority is not to resolve the issue of INA, to resolve the issue of Sisak, Rafineria in Sisak, it is a priority to adopt 30 and some laws to arrest a HDZ in the state inspectorate and instead of meeting HS for days, 30 days, one month, six months, 10 months, a year, until we find solutions for these problems, but to take care of Mr. Andrija Mikulić at the post of chief state inspector, in order to rosada in the HDZ in the Zagreb City Assembly, then it is clear that there is no result or which makes it possible for HDZ to answer any of these questions that I mentioned earlier, because in fact these are not their priorities, their priorities are mere survival in the government, the capture of its people where they can and at the end of their concerns about the solution to INA issues, whether the Republic of Energy is independent, possibly if some of course have been able to have some benefit from the project. And on that side we have absolutely no expectations, and I think that the whole of the Republic of Croatia is basically in the anticipation of the next presidential elections, after that and parliamentary elections so that the government that has no results and which does not do the job the way it should finally get the grade it deserves and it is not even a unit but a zero. So zero is the rating you can get after you have announced that you will buy INA 2.5 years ago, you have done nothing but spend some money on consulting services, the result is more fuel prices in the Republic of Croatia, and the result is that the closure of the Sisak refinery, the loss of hundreds and thousands of jobs, the domination of MOL in these relationships, the measure that the Hungarian Foreign Minister de facto at Mark's square is mocking, is laughing, talking about it in a way that we can't do anything and that he will determine what will happen to INA, what will happen to the refineries, and ultimately that INA will very likely turn into a company that will only deliver oil products produced by MOL and that we will not even do what we could and even before he said to his colleague Vlaović, that they will also raise the fees for the use of gas and oil from our local businesses, so that we can use more money from Croatia, and so that we can use more money from Croatia. So all together in the end to recapture, the bill on changes and additions to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products can be supported, but what I can tell you, believe me, about INA and about our energy independence, there will be no letters in the future under the government of HDZ and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142616	We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to come forward is Honored Representative Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, although this law is presented to us in the opening statement as one technical law, the law of compliance with European directives, which, of course, it is because the opportunity to talk again about the problems that arise beyond this topic but at first I also want to say a few words about the law. So although this is a harmonisation with European directives, once again to say, about storage and the amount of oil to be stored, primarily why this law is being passed and why it started in the procedure in this law because the State Inspectorate Act should be made clear and that is another indicator of how this Government works. So 1.4. this year, the State Inspectorate Act, which united the State Inspectorate, came into force, so we know what this is all about, so a lot has been discussed in this House of the Last Months, so this law was passed so that Mr. Andrija Mikulić could become the chief state inspector and solve internal conflicts in HDZ which show that the results of the last elections still failed and the whole state is the hostage of the internal relations of the HDZ and already 2 months. After that, it's 1.6, so 2 months. After the State Inspectorate Act is in force, we are making changes to another law in a series that continues on this law and which regulate or allow the State Inspectorate to function normally. And what's visible from all this? That the State Inspectorate isn't working today and it's not working. So, except that not all the laws in this country are in line with that law so that it could function normally, but every 15, 20 days we have some new law that complies with that law, and nothing happens in the State Inspectorate itself. So the inspectors who are now in the State Inspectorate have only solutions that are there, have no job descriptions, do not work, here I am interested, State Secretary how the inspection works on this matter when we are just today bringing compliance with this inspectorate, who is responsible for regulating the oil products market in Croatia, the State Inspectorate or any other body? Here's how it works when we don't bring in sublegal acts, and that's the feature of this government, so we have a whole series of laws that are in place and they don't have sublegal acts that allow these laws to work, so this isn't the only area, the only law that's dysfunctional because the government is sloppyly doing its job and unprepared to the horrors, and other problems that we can talk about when this topic is already being touched in its debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, and this is the energy independence of Croatia, and we'd like to talk about it much the same way in this house, but in the debate in this House, but in a way that we're just discussing this subject and not that we MPs are using these laws to talk about these issues. So Croatia today is not an energy independent country, although this should be the priority of both Croatia and the government and all those who lead this country, on the contrary. So we remember Prime Minister Plenkovic's announcement that he will return INA to Croatian hands on Christmas Day 2016 and thus ensure Croatia's energy independence. What happened today? It happened exactly the opposite. We have an INA shut down, we have a Law on INA which practically handed over the remains of those management stakes that Croatia had in INA through its 3 members of the administration had as many – so many policy influences, we by law that this government passed months ago, or Parliament brought to the proposal of this government, donated the management rights to the Hungarians and de facto lost any impact as the country on the future of the refinery in Sisak, which has already been shut down even though it works pro-forme from a few jobs, but I think it's a strategic issue of the owner of INA, and that is because if we had to shut down until the end, then we should repair the ecological land of the refinery which is their huge cost, so now it's cheaper to keep a few hundred workers there to maintain some business just so that they don't have to get into the ecological care of that area, but the future of the refinery in Rije is going to say that they's all that they'll say that they're wrong. So these are all indicators where the government does not have the independence of Croatia, but the government does not have any energy strategy for Croatia's development in this regard of independence. We have a failed LNG terminal project on Krk. That's what we talked about when we talked about these laws. So, the government, beyond the will of the citizens of the area, pushed this project for which there was ultimately no economic interest at all. So, the contest went down on several occasions, and then the government forced state-owned companies to go into the project, and there's nothing there again, and we were saying that it was invaluable and that it wasn't done and that you weren't doing it. But that's another indicator of how this government's politics is being run. Over the knee, by force, without any strategy, without any development and without any plans, and to the harm of Croatian citizens. And I agree with my colleague, Maras, when he says that in the next election, these elections were a message to this government that citizens think of her policy even though the prime minister has been acting by what I can do all the time, and the citizens have now told him that he can't. I believe that both the presidential elections and the parliamentary elections next year, which are ahead of us, will send a message to the citizens of this government to go and finally come a new government, responsible for managing strategic interests and all other interests of the Republic of Croatia, and for the benefit of its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142618	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142619	Thank you, dear colleague Giujic. Normally, it is not clear that it is not possible to solve any of the problems that are being put before us today when at this very moment we have a significant conflict within the government or the ruling party, where Mr Stier asks Prime Minister Plenkovic to change the policy he has led so far with HDZ and to return to his right hand, this one continues in his own direction. And we are de facto burdened with conflicts in HDZ. means Stier and Plenkovic in the battle for the scepter within HDZ, and the problems that are in Croatia are simply not solved. And someone made a little joke with one in fact a very sad situation, which is that a lot of people have gone to Ireland, but they say, why Ireland is so successful. Because the HDZ in Ireland only got one vote. Here, let's say something that should draw out a message in the Republic of Croatia and show people that where HDZ gets some support, grass no longer grows on that side, until the question of legitimacy is resolved, or the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the legitimacy and support of non-citizens, and there is no reason why over and less than 30% of Croatian citizens have given support to Mr Plenkovic in these elections and his coalitions and all of these parties that are within the coalition simply can't solve problems. 22% of HDZ, 1% of HNS, 1% of Bandic, etc. There is no possibility that HDZ has legitimacy or has solved those problems that have been put before them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142620	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic. It's about the oil market and the oil derivatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142621	Of course. This is another oil market and oil derivatives is another in a series of reforms Prime Minister Plenkovic announced when he came to power. So Prime Minister Plenkovic announced himself as prime minister of reformer, who will reform the state, but also announced that he would change HDZ so that he could change Croatia. And today, in the last 2.3 days, we see that all his reforms have failed, his reforms have failed in the country, as well as in the oil derivatives market, but his reform in HDZ has failed. In the end, HDZ changes him. So, he'll change, as Mr. Stier says, or he won't be. But I think he's going to make history as prime minister of failed reforms. And party and public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142622	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected citizens who follow us. We are discussing the proposal of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. The question arises why this bill came to the Parliament. An explanation that we need to comply with the EU acquis. Dear citizens, I assume that most of you do not know that in the EU, in the EU, the committee of members of parliament, MEPs cannot submit draft laws. So the question arises who is proposing these laws that become a legal property of the EU, and then come from Brussels to all the Member States only to be voted by local parliaments and parliaments. Are we for such an EU? I'm sure we didn't. So, first of all, it is clear that the EU is not a state. Secondly, I have already said that MPs in the EU cannot propose new laws or amendments to the law. Well, then it is obvious that stakeholders within the EU who care about their interests and want to achieve their objectives. Well, that's why there's growing dissatisfaction with such an EU which is increasingly beyond the ideas and ideas that its founders are, so people who were visionaries, who proposed it as a concept and which today works in this form. So what we have today is not the EU we want, this is not the EU of sovereign peoples, this union has been transformed into a union of capitals that achieves the objectives of large capital and its, their interest groups. But to move on to this subject means to be specific. I quote the proposal for one article in this proposal for a law, where it says, mandatory stocks of oil and derivatives of the Republic of Croatia may be kept in the territory of another country in accordance with national legislation, legislation of that State. It says it can be guarded, but you see what happens in case you don't give God of War, whether that oil will come to Croatia, if it comes under any conditions, because someone can think of it overnight to blackmail us with our oil in their area. But look at Article 16 a new item is added, which states that mandatory supplies can also be stored in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, with the approval of the Ministry and the Agency's opinion. You see, when we compare these two items that I quote out, it turns out there are more restrictive provisions for keeping mandatory oil reserves in Croatia than in any other country. You see this government, Andrej Plenkovic, continues to tear apart and the little sovereignty that we still have, they don't care whether the oil that's abroad in the event of a war threat or other dangers, whether it comes here or not, so they're interested, so they're only interested in their position you see. Croatia should be chaired by the EU next year for 6 months and is getting ready for this, but Croatia is turning back, which is Croatia in big trouble, what people are moving out, what we are the last country for development in the EU, so they are not interested, they are not interested. So he came from Brussels anyway, came from Brussels, he doesn't feel the problems of this country, this people. That is why I am pleased that he has personally experienced and that this ruling coalition has suffered a severe defeat in the European elections for the European Parliament. But you see only 30% of the citizens went to the polls, so from 25% to 30%, and imagine dear citizens and I invite you to 55% of how much they go to the parliamentary elections, so HDZ would barely have 2 MPs in the European Parliament, and that's what we're waiting for, we want to, and that's why I'm calling you, the only real solution is going to the elections, all elections, because we have to take off the scene everything that is ruining Croatia. Let's not wait for new elections, let's not wait for regular elections. First of all, we see respected citizens here that this is a minority council, I call on representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament to withdraw from the ruling coalition, to save face to face. and national minorities. [[Employer: A colleague of Lovrinović...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142624	... The law on the oil and oil market is the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142625	I'll be back, but Mr. Vice President, I'm explaining the reasons that are important for the management of the mandatory oil supply policy, because if this assembly, now I'm going to show you Well, well, Mr. Vice President, I wouldn't give myself such authority to be a censor of the parliamentarian's opinion. [[Intruder: Just don't cross the border, please.]] You know I've always been correct and respectful and I'll respect the rules of this assembly, but please don't let some of you, I know you're not like that, but don't be called a ghost cop. So in that sense, in that sense, why this is important what I said, because if members of the national minorities withdraw from the parliament from this ruling majority, then this assembly will not vote on the bill. Look what I was gonna say. And by doing so, it will save itself face and national minorities. Otherwise, a large number of citizens.../incomprehensible/... Croatia will increasingly demand that national minorities do not have their representatives in the assembly. Why? Because they'll realize they're being clientelistic. I'm the first one, I'm really asking these people to think, you see, they're not here today. This is all about both the oil market and the oil reserves abroad and everything else. Therefore, why do I base my thesis that we must have oil, oil reserves in Croatia, why do we pay the Germans to protect our oil? Well, obviously someone can speculate there, and you gentlemen know that I'm always making arguments. The State Audit report of 2 years ago, the results, or analysis, of this particular oil reserve management area, were defeated. It is said in the report on optional contracts, meaning the term contracts where the representatives of the Republic of Croatia, though it was then the SDP government, but I don't think the situation has changed now because these clientelistic structures are linked. You know what they were doing back then? They were paying option contracts by advance, you know I'm a professor of finance, they were paying off options, and the authorisation was only up to 500,000 kuna and means with the permission of the finance minister, and they were making contracts at about $15 million, so about 80 million. So you can see that everything here is set up to conduct corruption. Corruption is the poison that destroys Croatian tissue, the tissue of the Croatian state. And you see when they appear on the scene of people who are pointing to corruption and are fighting, as in these elections, the judge Mislav Kolakusic was raised, and now he is hitting from all tools and weapons. And why are they afraid of Mislav Kolakusic? Well, because a man's worked in the judiciary for 20 years, I can't find him anything. On the other hand, I have not seen how much I am in politics that someone is so afraid of someone, so they are so afraid of those who have destroyed Croatia as much as they are afraid of Kolakusic. And why is that? So they know that Kolakusic will knock on their door tomorrow because he won't mess around unlike these others, he'll knock on their door, gentlemen. And therefore for the next days and weeks instead of having the biggest problem are the corrupt structures in Croatia, it will be that man. All media owned or influenced by current furniture, they will work on it. Therefore, I call on you to leave this corrupt ruling majority, to call extraordinary elections and to change Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142626	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142627	Dear Representative Lovrinović, all possible topics are persistently imposed in this House except for the key topic, which is the question of the legitimacy of the ruling majority and its rights or possibilities, or should I say the legitimacy to make a decision on the market for oil derivatives. I believe that the Croatian people have the right to a fair electoral process, not that we actually have a dictatorship in Croatia that actually does not enjoy the support of their own party, let alone the electoral body of HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142628	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142629	Comrade Pernar, we see what is happening and that this is really about the will to abuse the concept of democracy. You see, last night, I was at an exhibition for 25 years, which was supposed to be a celebration in the House, and I was supposed to give strong support to the Kuna, and I was present with the memorial speeches of the Prime Minister and the governor of the CNB, who were careful to choose the Archaeological Museum for the promotion, for the gathering and sent a strong message that the kuna should be already at the Archaeological Museum tomorrow and that the euro should be accepted. So I invite you all here in the House, no matter what option you belong to, especially young parties, national minorities, all others, to gather together and to discuss the extraordinary elections as soon as possible, because we can't bear this anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142630	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142631	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Lovrinović, through the Oil and Oil Market Act, we should regulate the market for this energy, but unfortunately we do not because we are not able to because it is the majority owner of MOL, i.e. it does not have a majority package but manages this. And it certainly is not good that we as a state do not still have a strategy for Croatia's energy development, that it is now being developed. And that we from HSS suggest that we certainly think about and that there must be a share of renewable energy sources and supplies of renewable energy, conservation of the environment through, through biomass and through others, through the sun, where we have the opportunity to create independence of the energy Republic and not be driven by the profits of JANAF so as not to protect citizens of Slavonski Brod city and allow JANAF with a large share of sulfur to distribute raw oil to the Bosnian Ship and not put pressure on the refinery in the Bosnian Ship to stop poisoning citizens of Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142632	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142633	Dear counterpart Vlaovic, we agree that this government is not working, it has no strategy, what national interests, I can no longer assume that this prime minister and this government is elected in another country, you know, every day I have a stronger impression of it. No matter how much you talk about the Hungarians, so I was at that rally yesterday, it means opening up their expansion of the embassy. Well, I believe that Hungarians, not our problem is Hungarians, not Serbs, not Jews, not Masons, not Germans, but our bastards are a problem, we have to deal with them. And we can't wait, until the end of 2020 it's long, one day is as long as they can ruin, one month, let alone another year and a half. I call upon you all first and foremost, representatives of the national minorities in the Parliament, withdraw, save your cheeks, save the face of the national minorities and we go to extraordinary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142634	The next replica is respected by Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142635	My colleague Lovrinović, here I am interested, you are a professor and if you can tell me your opinion that such strategic failures occur in our country when it comes to Croatia's energy independence, so from handing over INA to Hungarian hands, the closure of refineries, the failed LNG terminal. Who brings these plans? Would your students have had better plans than this government? Why, do you think, or do I want to hear your opinion where the problem is? Which is why the government brings such failed projects to the detriment of Croatian citizens. What do you think of that? And it's good to invite your colleagues to stop and go to early elections. It would be good to point out and invite a few colleagues who have joined the Parliament together with your list and now support the ruling majority, have not stayed like you, you have unfortunately been left alone in this opposition action, but give some and invite them, colleagues of Misic and other friends of yours who are some and members of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142636	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142637	Dear fellow Djujic, unlike your party who has not cleared up today and forgiven those who do not, who are not, let's say so on the party's programme, our party has cleared it up within a month and we are in this principle and that is why I am doing this and I am saying what I want to you and I want you to be restructured as soon as possible, and therefore we will understand that we will be able to perform more honestly and more together. But when you ask me about strategic why, when you speak, watch out for the energy independence of Croatia, so that's more, it's like a joke, you understand, it doesn't look like it's a joke. And when you ask me about my students, not just mine, but all the other students, it hurts my heart to hear them think about going abroad. People are scared, calling young people, we're here, we're gonna fight for you, but we can't do it without you. We've got to get rid of this one. political swaggers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142638	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142639	Thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinovic. It's nice to hear your concerns right now about some things. The only thing I don't understand is calling Cookies, this sounds like you're looking for a new partner after you passed MOST, Live Wall, so now you're looking for a new mix of new partner cards. So you lost twice in Bella, now the one who started the card thinks you could win with this to play one game again. But what I'm more interested in is whether it's wrong for you to see all these failures that HDZ's done over the past two and a half, three years, whether you're wrong to actually bring HDZ to power in 2016. If it hadn't been for your hands and your colleagues from MOST then, the HDZ would probably be watching today from the opposition benches all of this happening in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142640	Thank you. Let me remind you, we're talking about the oil and oil products market. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142641	The question is simply such, Vice President, that I must answer. Comrade Maras, you obviously have a short memory. I'm the only man when I was at the Most who voted against this government and left immediately. I left everything at once, so I didn't bring anyone, so I'm gonna send you a video from that session this afternoon, and if I hadn't done that, I'd have left politics a long time ago because I couldn't stay for moral reasons. I haven't been anyone's party, we change Croatia, we've always been part of an alliance, a programme, not someone's... They took advantage of us, and I never talked about it, and here, I'm sorry that MOST went through like this, but, well, there's always what you're saying, what you cooked, that's what you're going to try, isn't it? So, we stay tight on our program, we're not looking for anyone, but why? I'll always support someone who's good, and so will Mr. Cookies, tomorrow if someone good shows up So if someone from your party does anything right, I'll commend. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142642	The next debate will be the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The debate, however, has not given rise to the interest that would be appropriate for a subject of this importance, because if there is no energy independence of Croatia, unless we get from our raw materials and energys what we should get as a state, if Hungarians have more benefits than Croatian citizens, then clearly that interest should be, that it should be much, much higher, higher, and that we should almost discuss here and blow everyone into the same sails. The tragedy is, ladies and gentlemen, what today is the topic no. 1 in Croatia, conflict at HDZ Stier-Plenkovic. Stier wants Plenkovic replaced. Plenkovic wants to disband Stier, after all, we don't care who wins the HDZ. The only thing that's too bad is that problems in the Republic of Croatia don't work out and there's no way to get out of it one quality and proper way. Unfortunately, we will continue to be slaves and hostages of this internal HDZ conflict and there is no, insufficient support for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because there is no support for that policy, so citizens are simply waiting for the elections to say goodbye to HDZ and their satellites that will be harassing us here for another year and a half, they will not solve anything and eventually we will get into a situation that we have lost time, and that all the problems have remained the same or even bigger than they have been. And the question of refineries and everything that burdens Croatia, and I talked about it on behalf of the club. So if it's about the refineries in Croatia failing, that Prime Minister Plenkovic is looking and I would say, he's cheating on the people in a way that he's going to buy INA, there's nothing going on, the question is just as long as it can go. And it can go to regular parliamentary elections because regardless of these cries here and colleagues Lovrinovic and others, there is no force that will force those who can't get even 1% in the elections to raise their hands for parliament's disbandment. Why? Because there's no way they can sit here again where they're sitting right now. And as long as we have this team, which, coloquially called Mayor of the City of Zagreb, the tokens and while they hold HDZ in power, believe me, up to the last hundredth of the constitutional deadline for the new elections, they will do so. Paradoxically, there is essentially a better chance of Stier taking down Plenkovic and going to the polls than that the chips respond to Mr. Lovrinović's and the others who logically make statements here, if you don't have 23% plus these 3.4% of other small parties who support the government, unless you have nearly 30% of the legitimacy in the EU elections, so how are you going to run the country at all? Who gives you the right to represent yourself as representatives of the Croatian people when you do not have support? You have support as well as a refinery in Sisak has a perspective, unfortunately for a refinery in Sisak, and for the lack of support on happiness. So, on the other hand, what would only be possible right to get out of this fungi is to discuss the elections so that HDZs between themselves are getting better, and that Croatia is finally starting to solve the problems that have accumulated and are ahead of us. And where's the purchase of INE, where's the purchase of INE ladies and gentlemen? Here, maybe someone can tell me from HDZ here, three MPs left. Maybe one of them, one MP and two MPs, sorry. So maybe one of them knows what's wrong with buying INE? I don't know, citizens don't know, Bull doesn't know, Beljak doesn't know, Fred Matic doesn't know, but maybe the HDZ gentlemen know, tell us. HDZ knows, yes, just knowing what he knows, unfortunately, and buying INU doesn't know, so it would be good to know how to fill out the HDZ property card, but he doesn't know it either. So when we see how every day we have an affair related to the assets cards of HDZ ministers. So it is very important on this side to say that the government mutilated by the election in the European elections is not able to lead Croatia further, and the sooner the story ends, the better it will be for everyone. Any coalition, any solution is better than this where Plenkovic can do nothing, where elections in HDZ are sought within HDZ to replace him. In the capital of the Republic of Croatia, HDZ has 13%, 13% imagine that, so many strong people Mr. Jandroković, Mr. Reiner, all of them from Zagreb Mikulic, but no oil business, no possibility of doing anything in the field of oil and oil derivatives can, cannot achieve success because the government has no legitimacy or power to push any, any thing, any job. [[Agreement: Comrade Maras, back to the topic of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products.]] And it hit its head, ransacked the head of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ's haughtiness and land where they thought they could do whatever they wanted, and eventually it was clear that they couldn't do anything. So, with all these elected representatives and those who support them in the Croatian Parliament, I said to the last hundred, unfortunately that will be so, but what the citizens know is that no single problem will be solved. And that's why here in the end, once again I say it's irrelevant this, I mean it's important the law, but it doesn't matter whether we adopt it or not because there are so many problems ahead of us, there are so many things that we have to deal with to deal with the relationship between Stier and Plenkovic. So, Croatia is a hostage of relations within HDZ, spy affairs, Stir – Plenkovic, right hand, not right hand, Shex's accusation that the church worked against HDZ, imagine where it goes. So what do we do now, let them record a series of people instead of burdening us with these things. We want Croatia to have its strong oil company, that Croatia does not sell products from Hungary, that Croatia retains production in Sisak and Rijeka, that is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia want. Unfortunately, we get bigger fees from the exploitation of gas and oil in Podravina and in the part of Bjelovar-Bilogor County, that's what Croatian citizens want. They don't care about HDZ at all, that's what the election showed. I will once again say this paradigm which, to my misfortune, made Croatia quite picturesque, that all those who moved out of Croatia to Ireland only one voted for HDZ, imagine and may be working at the embassy. This is maybe the only voter HDZ has managed to find there. So, until we solve problems in Croatia, it is normal that citizens will not support the HDZ government, and that this flood that has been experienced is now just for the presidential elections and for the parliamentary ones that are coming to us next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142644	Thank you, too. I'm giving you a warning because, in accordance with Article 238, you spoke out of the question. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Sasa Djujic, please. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in? What's the point of injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142645	In 239, it means that Mr. Vice President, when you give a warning, you can't, after it's all gone, you have to react immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142646	I'm telling you, it doesn't say anything first, and secondly I warned you, but you don't care as usual about my warnings, so I gave you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142647	I don't care, I don't care, what the gentleman said no to him, you should have warned me immediately this isn't a correct reminder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142648	I warned you and I gave you a warning, so let's move on. Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142649	Thank you very much. You spoke as Prime Minister Plenkovic cheats on Croatian citizens when he said he would buy and return INU to Croatian hands, he is not the only one in this government who is cheating and there were ministers who said he would leave politics and stop dealing with politics if the refinery was shut down in Sisak, so it happened, but it did not happen this second part, but I am glad that the citizens in Croatia are increasingly and more seeing how cheating this government is and they showed it in these elections. You mentioned support, support for HDZ in the City of Zagreb, it is not only the City of Zagreb, there is Split, traditionally Rijeka, there is Osijek, all the great cities in Croatia have seen that HDZ's government is a fraud and have harmonised its support. And in order not to get a warning now, I will refer to the topic we are talking about, so there is a greater chance of finding oil in Croatia, rather than supporting the HDZ government today. And that's very good and that shows that [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142650	Answer of the Honored Representative Marasa, come in. [[Employment: Oil and oil markets as well as denials]] [[/Intruder: HDZ support. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142651	Thank you very much, colleague Giujic. You've noticed well. It is fascinating that with so many strong players in the City of Zagreb such as Mikulić, Mr Jandrokovic, Mr Reiner and others, HDZ gets 13%. That's something that's real to me, and maybe even not their fault, so it's not their fault that Mr. Plenkovic is running a bad policy and even related to oil derivatives. To be specific about this law. Which he didn't buy to the INA, which he cheated on Croatian citizens. 2.5 years ago, he promised to buy INA. He doesn't have a bee either. Here, now there are four HDZs here. Come on, maybe somebody knows the answer. When will INA become Croatian? When are we gonna buy it? When are we gonna get INA back from Hungarian hands? That's something we're interested in here and why HDZ is, Because of such fraud, he got 13%. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142652	The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142653	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Maras. Yes, it was not bought, or returned to RH INA property, it was not, or production was shut down in the Sisak Refinery, other people were jobless and were wondering what citizens expected from this law, from the regulation of the oil market. Well, first of all, citizens expect their fuel and diesel prices to not grow every week. They expect to have fuel prices lower than it is in the environment, but unfortunately we have more so a large number of our citizens go shopping for gasoline and oil and BiH. Unfortunately, the economy and agriculture cannot be competitive with such high costs, and the share in fuel prices, the state, which goes into the state budget, is over 60%. So why isn't the state responding? Why wouldn't it be a liter of blue diesel for farmers like a liter of milk? Then it would be competitive agricultural production, not this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142654	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142655	There's been a lot of questions here why, and there's no answer, and there's no answer, and there's no responsible answer. It's very simple, because we wouldn't then be able to feed this earlobe that they've thrown all over various ministries, and the latest example is the state inspectorate, where we've gathered thousands of people on the side and a few hundred new ones now have to be hired, and that's why they pay so high excise fees and fuel, and therefore they don't have less diesel prices. Because we all have to pay for it. We have to pay these unnecessary people that HDZ hires and with their help. They barely make it to 22%. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142656	The next replica is the respected representative of Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142657	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras. I was impressed by your presentation on the protection of national interests regarding the oil market, the INA, the MOL, and really, I've been going through it deeply. But in the end, I remembered that your party had just sold that part of the INA first for 505 million dollars, 505 with a line. So unfortunately this pawning of yours is broken by it, I know, you didn't sign that contract, but your party and it's a problem now to defend national interests. But say this when I call for national minorities to withdraw, to go to the election, but I forgot that in fact your party has become the main pool for filling HDZ, these chips, right? So please tell me if you've cleared that up, when you'll finally, and we're an opposition party, that we can work harder together because this is how it turns out that Milanovics, Bernardics, I don't know what's going on there anymore, are you? You cleared that up? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142658	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142659	Thank you very much. You must be precise when you speak, which is difficult in your case because you are not precise even when you choose a political option. If you start with MOST, and you end up in the Living Wall, you end up playing a solo part and you want to change Croatia, you are now challenging Kolakusic to support you in this, then when you are not precise in political direction, then you are not naturally precise in your statements either. So, first of all, my party didn't sell because the SDP never owned the INA. So it's not possible that SDP sold it, but sold it under the INA Act and then sold 25% of the property and had a control package in everything. Croatia now has 44%, Hungarians 46, 47, and Hungarians have 100% ownership in everything, i.e. management rights in everything. So you need to see Let me finish my sentence. [[Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the end word on behalf of the club...]] Can I ask, please, a break on behalf of the club? [[Intruder: you can't take longer than, you have as much time as you have, you've already passed 10 seconds, why should you have another right as others.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: You can.]] Here, when you don't give five seconds, then make it two minutes. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] So, we need to ask for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP in order to consult on further discussions on the Law on Oil Products concerning certain things that are now evident to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is that unfortunately under the HDZ government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic we have a continuous decline in oil production, fewer employees in our refineries and ultimately, the result of the promises made by Mr. Plenkovic 2.5 years ago that he will buy INA equal zeros. So on this side, it's important to consult, it's important in the end to figure out what this is about, which is why Mr. Plenkovic and HDZ can't solve this problem. I can't solve the problem because I can't solve the situation in the HDZ any more, whether Plenkovic will remain HDZ president or will be replaced by Stier and all those who support them next to HDZ all have 5% of the support. So at this point we have a government that should solve accumulated problems in the Republic of Croatia, and there is not even 30% support for Croatian voters. And it is normal that in the end it all comes down to a mere vote from Friday to Friday without a solution and a particular problem that Croatian citizens have. If we could get to the point of having a government that has legitimacy, i.e. the support of Croatian citizens who may be a member of Mr. Lovrinović in some 6th option, but must have the support of citizens, then the solution could start to be offered and resolved. Until then, until that happens, there won't be any luck. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142660	Thank you very much. I'll see you again at 12 and 10. It's 12 o'clock. CONTINUED AFTER STATION 12.10 HOURS of colleagues and colleagues, here is a break that has expired and I will ask for a final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, which will be spoken by the esteemed Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142662	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have the Law on the Market of Oil and Oil Products and I will not speak here as colleagues in black swans or who Milanović is, who is Plenkovic, I will simply say what I think needs to be done and what our club has proposed as the law that was here, passed the procedure, unfortunately most of them did not accept it and MOST sent the law that should be. It was here but it was not accepted, different to define the level of sulphur in order to improve the conditions and quality of life in Slavonski Bord, unfortunately it did not go away because it was much more important to get JANAF than to have people living quality without any good reason not to care about the protection of citizens in Slavonski Brod but much more important is the profit that JANAF will have. Of course, when we were listening here on behalf of the club, many times it was mentioned MOST, MOST in whose context, and those who had politically profiled themselves through the Most, I won't even mention the names, I can see that they are now calling out other masseurs but I can proudly say that the Most is the one who was, 12 people who, for the sake of the protection of the INA and the national interests, did not want to overrule the government and the very person who called on the Most and who entered the Assembly through the Most, I'm sorry that he wasn't here, otherwise he would have called him because all the time he called on the Most, that he wouldn't have been in the Assembly. Second, when the government was overruled, when HDZ destroyed the government, i.e. When we didn't want to agree, our 12 colleagues from the MOST Club for the first time in history, then he made up the government with Joza Petrovic and Karamark, and he was for overcoming the government, but I'm sorry that this parliamentary representative isn't here and now I'm calling him, here I'm calling him if he listens on TV, I'm going to extend the speech to hear so we can face any media, but much more important here are laws, it's much more important that what the Hungarians have taken over the INA, what they've shut down the refinery in Sisak, no matter what the current current current current current minister in pre-election time said that he was treason, that the national traitor who shut down the refinery, Mr. Maric, to shut down the refinery, that it was treason. So I think and I think that this government has not protected either national interests or those who are calling for someone to enter this Parliament again, I don't know their reasons why MOST hurts, and I am sure that those in their hometowns will never get as many votes as I have received and I thank my fellow citizens, and in the end, it would be because a lot of talk about a campaign for European elections, first of all I would congratulate those who have been elected to the European Parliament and I expect those people to finally hear the voice of the Croatian man in the European Parliament and not just in the pre-election time when we see these Europarliatarians waking up and then mention Croatian national interests. Once again I call on you government representatives to protect our citizens in Slavonski Brod, we have given a law that would define the reduction of sulphur in oil products and in this way we wanted to help, unfortunately you did not accept it because it is obviously much more important to profit and capital than the quality of life and protection of the oily citizens of Slavonski Brod. One more stop and protect our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142663	Thank you very much, that concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142664	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, first reading, P.Z. No 636. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products and Others is adopted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 102 for, 12 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142665	Now we're going to move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a law on self-supply of electricity from renewable energy sources, first reading, P.Z. No. 360 The proposer is the club of the Independent Lists, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Economy, the government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, so in the name of the club will speak the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142666	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here last year, 18.5. MOST of Independent Lists gave in the procedure after the public presentation of the Microsolar Law which was also adopted in public positively in which it proposes self-supply of renewable energy, specifically from what God has given us and this has given us a large number of sunny days. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to us here in Parliament, i.e. She gave a negative opinion not to adopt this law, which would address a number of problems mainly in renewable energy sources. This law is specifically intended for small customers of electricity, for citizens of small and medium-sized enterprises who, in this case, can also become producers of electricity and renewables for their own needs. For the first time, citizens have the opportunity to manage the price of energy and their energy future on their own. This proposal dramatically simplifies the participation of such small customers, producers, on the electricity market. The accounting period would cover one calendar year, we took an annual account because the research and experience of electricity consumption by final customers shows significant daily deviations in consumption. As a matter of principle... customers would receive changes in their electricity conditions within the prescribed administrative deadlines of 15 days and would be ready for installation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, the administrative procedure for such producers has been extremely complicated and the one-year accounting model is impossible. When I say this was complicated, I can set an example from my neighborhood where a man 30 kW set up solars in 2013. And when the government called, HERA gave him permission. that all is well just the tribal to be connected, until today did not fall into renewable energy sources i.e. in the quota she set, I don't know who was supposed to give permission, I guess HEP or the Ministry, but mostly that man is not even today, no matter what he invested EUR 60.000,00, which is the man involved in the Homeland War, which is a 100% disabled Homeland War, this man today in Sinj still has all the conditions, is not connected, but at the same time the Croatian state gives renewable sources to foreign investors a billion, we consumers, small entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, natural persons, households, a billion and 600 million kuna according to the report, foreign investors due to wind power plants. So, the foreigners are making a profit, while the microsolares and our proposal don't accept, so the government of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Is the Government of Zoran Milanovic, now a coalition partner, Mr. Vrdoljak of the HNS at the last meeting of the Government, then passed this on to renewable sources of legislation that allowed them to be subsidized by wind power plants, which is why a billion and 600 million kuna, that is, we consumers pay to foreigners for renewable sources, and the supplier pays another billion, which means the Croatian state, citizens and the state gives two billion and 600 per year to foreigners, and while microsolars are being stopped, and we are the richest in Europe, one of the richest, most sunny days, what God has given us, and that is the sun. As a result, citizens, small entrepreneurs, rarely appear as investors in such a form of self-supply. The use of renewable energy sources of interest is for the Republic of Croatia. What changes this bill of ours that we've proposed to you about microsolars? We put energy and energy management into the hands of citizens and entrepreneurs, there is no monopoly, we have a monopoly at wind power plants, and this is how we would have independent, energy-independent families, institutions and institutions. Microsolars up to 10 kW on roofs of houses, buildings, businesses, kindergartens, schools, bring down accounts because everyone pays according to their own consumption and according to numbers, which means that both producers and those who put energy into the network, that is what this law means to us, our families, our institutions, kindergartens, schools, hospitals would also be producers of electricity that produce, of course, and consumers, would give extras into the network, and what they would spend more would pay, have exact calculations where simply at 10 kW would be essentially, our citizens should not pay anything. A programme to subsidise solar systems for households that are a social category to combat energy poverty. Here is my colleague Sonja Cikotic, asked Minister Murganić, how many states are allocated to social services, she received answers as to how much she gives out for social cases, families who are not able to buy heat and pay for electricity, electricity, amounting to around 200 million kuna, but that is without taking, social criteria and giving through local self-government where it is certainly the least possible amount for heating or similar things or paying for electricity, which means that amount is growing up to half a billion kuna per year. And now that we take that family social, which is threatened and which state is subsidized, to build microsolars, they would be both producers and would not be threatened by electricity, and mainly in winter conditions, they would be producers, ultimately, they would be independent, not energy poor and would be, therefore, not dependent on the state. I've been looking for reasons, we at the club, which are reasons not to accept this reason, so just for this part. Here, the problem of national Roma minorities would be resolved, national minorities of Serbian nationality in the backdrops, however, I don't know if you'd like to vote on this law, where microsolares would be placed on socially endangered families, which would also be producers, but it doesn't want to be ruled. I want to tell you why. They don't want it because they want it from someone they're going to have to give 2000.00 kn, $30,00 kn to vote for it and buy the heat. A year's half a billion kuna is given for heating. Who's the problem with someone having, which is socially endangered, microsolars? Who's the problem with our institutions, kindergartens, hospital schools and other facilities? Microsolars, to become peacemakers, but it's much more important to subsidize wind power plants that foreign investors draw money and we don't know who the owners are, which are subsidies for renewable sources than setting up microsolars, why? They want a monopoly, they want a dependent family, they want a dependent man, they want him poor enough to be their voter. And that's a message to our people, to our citizens. I don't see any reason why this law isn't accepted. Which is why the government has given a negative opinion and is wasting our parliamentary representatives for what we are fighting in my area, the Dalmatian Zagora, Lici, Slavonia, the Gorski kotar, the national minorities, the Roma community, the national minorities, the Serb community, all national minorities are talking about a problematic area where they live and you won't accept this because the government says they won't accept and we're giving a solution to be microsolars, we're exactly making calculations, it's much cheaper but half a billion kuna a year to make money to these poor families, and so each year they're kept dependent on being their voting body. And not only that, but it remains a monopoly and power influence in HERA, in those institutions that manage the energy system and that is Minister Vrdoljak then and now a coalition partner, in Milanovic's government, now the HDZ coalition partner, did so. The cost of the documentation next to what t was, the cost of this law being passed, the cost of the documentation would be reduced from current 8000 kuna to 2000 kuna. So one slow administrative process, that someone puts in private entrepreneurs or a natural or legal person, a microsolare, needs to document 8,000 kunas. This law would reduce by 2,000 kuna and speed up the process to 2,000 kuna, which means 6000 kuna, which is not a little bit compared to 8, would speed up to this process of building microsolars. Annual calculation instead of monthly reduction, the return time of investments by 5 to 15% allows for greater flexibility in electricity consumption. So this investment would in a number of years, basically return this investment, this invested money, and again, I would give people and entrepreneurs competitiveness because they would be producers and they would release them from these chains of dependence on energy. Dependence on any aid to the state, like this country every year, the total state, means I'm talking about local self-government, regional and state, half a billion kunas must give for heating and electricity under team conditions, and this would solve the problem. So we solve the problem and we can invest that half a billion kuna money to solve social problems or investments in some more necessary things, for example. Here in the Croatian state we have 161, a third of municipalities and cities, 161 municipalities and the city, a local self-government that is unable to achieve the need for a child to have a kindergarten. A third of local self-government. But that's why the commissioners, the deputies, the council, the secretary, the headmasters, have it. And for this energy independence through solar systems, through this law, the government gives a negative opinion. I repeat again, I only see no reason besides what is favourable to foreign investors in this case, those who receive subsidies for renewables through wind power plants, through wind, wind parks, I see no reason and this is to keep people in poverty so that they depend on the state, local or regional budget and through this way take people's dignity and put pressure on them, primarily hold them as voting machines and that young people know it, but what will a man know when he's simply brought into that situation that without a job in Croatia, that money draws foreign corporations as in this case through wind power plants 2 billion and 600 million kuna per year, who knows where that money goes, whom we subsidise, we don't know. This is in the case of energy and telecommunications, so it's in all other cases. So I don't see other than these two reasons where we can mostly help the poor, our small entrepreneurs, allow them to compete and create families that are independent. The family is the base of every society and when the family is independent, in this case an energy and mostly poor family, and especially in our Croatia, which God has given a large number of sunny days, if it can be in Finland that has far less sunny days, which is why the Government of Croatia does not use this resource to survive people in areas and mainly in 2/3 of undeveloped and mountainous areas. I don't see any reason, so whether it's better to invest these half a billion in the doctor's specialization so that doctors can pay us doctors, but forbid this law, not give it a pass, if you're uncomfortable with what we suggested, so feel free to sign it, here I am handing it over to you and you suggest it. But the money you keep dependent on our poor girl's energy-dependent, make it possible for them to be independent. Give entrepreneurs better competitiveness on the EU market because we are the only ones from their EU market here because it will cheapen the product to that entrepreneur if it produces energy and the excess energy is always able to let it into the network is because it is so regulated that it is possible, in fact it is solved. The buyer, the important thing is, the customer with its own production, the surplus in production in the summer months compensates for the lack of production in the winter months, that's it. So the surplus, when summer's surplus is created, it goes into the network, it counts, and it essentially compensates for what it spends more in winter, so basically this family that we've installed microsolares through this law that we define with this money that you're giving, through social giving, and so you keep from year to year people addicted to taking out papers, whether they're social, people are harassing, they need millions of paper, documents, you've solved that problem, you've created an independent energy family, and at least in that part. And not only that, but with this law, you're opening new jobs, each part of the microsolary is produced in the Republic of Croatia while for wind power plants no part of it is from the Republic of Croatia. People are gonna have to put that on the roofs. So we've got new jobs, is someone gonna have to set it up? So people are going to make money, companies are going to turn it around, and every part of it is going to be... And someone doesn't respond that we have microsolars on our roofs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And indeed, when we see the number of sunny days in the Republic, my Dalmatia, it's sad that someone doesn't have electricity, that there's no possibility of paying or having to pay for the heat, when we have it given to God, and that's what we're looking at, but from another aspect, the wind power plants didn't bring anything to Croatia except what's coming out of that money, 2 billion and 600 million plus 500 million payments for heating and electricity, which means 3 billion and 100 million kuna per year. In 5 years, all of Croatia for this money can be microsolars, on all residential buildings, households, institutions throughout the Republic of Croatia and finally have independent families, energy independent, institutions, independent institutions, and have what is most important, no more monopolists, but can't be answered here by monopolies because apparently policies are tailored by monopolies, they are sponsors of most political elites, parties running for office. And that should be loud and loud. That Croatia has all the conditions, has the mind that produces, has people who know how to set it, and has given God a great number of sunny days. So we've got everything, we've got everything. You can spin your head, you can deny me but that's a fact, you're comfortable with dependent people, dependent on energy, that's your voting body. And it's the poor people, I mean the poor ones, I think people are brought in to take their dignity, they simply depend on their children to have a warm home, these and about help that's never enough because we know what winters are like, and we know how many homeless people we know just don't have the ability to pay for neither gas nor electricity or heat of any kind, electrical energy. This microsolar law means that we immediately define, fits the environmental protection policy, the application of this law will increase the installed power of photo-voltage installations in a few years, which can raise the share of solar energy to 10% of the total electricity consumed in the Republic of Croatia. Only this will result in a reduction of the RS greenhouse gas mission from the energy sector by 4% or 650 kilos of CO2. This is not all the potential of the application of this law but would mean a significant change in the position of the Republic of Croatia on Europe's energy map. With 14 kW of electricity per capita per year, the EU averages 128. As a Mediterranean country, we are obliged to skip at least half of the countries and move to a leading third of the EU by renewable electricity sources. We are at the bottom of these photocells, by microsolars, using the sun's electricity and we are the richest in Europe, one of the country's richest by number of sunny days. What does that tell us? Well, all it takes is a healthy logic, not to use the sun, and it's ecologically justifiable, we have the possibility of economic development, poverty reduction, environmental protection, survival, demographics, this is and above all this is a demographic measure, the main problem is that in mountainous and undeveloped areas. This law would contribute most to this work and, of course, to the people who, here I often hear Milorad Pupovac, the president of the SDSS saying that the electricity electricity problem in the area with no electricity has been solved, in the area where returnees of Serbian nationality are. He mentioned it countless times right here from this pay phone. Also in these areas and Croats have an unresolved problem yet, so it is the problem of all people in the area and microsolars solve this problem and I am sorry that it did not come here and firmly defend and he represented this law but cares about it. So this law has been a year... in the procedure, nice words heard from no one in particular from those who should represent themselves or who are represented as representatives of people who are poor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all the people who are poor. This law but this law would essentially create families independent in this work by energy, reduce that amount and influence. As far as wind power stations are concerned, let's be honest. This is who among you before the election, wind power plants that go to foreign investors, 3 billion and 100 million kunas a year in their pockets and who knows how to invest, don't invest in Croatia, not one part of the wind power plant is from Croatia, not one part of it, not even I don't know if the transport, they don't even want Croatian carriers to transport it, but rather give something to local self-government, Trilj, Sinj, I'm talking about my end, and the wind parks are absolutely getting theirs and we're boasting that we've reached that quota of renewable sources. And this microsolars, every fraction of the microsolars can be produced in Croatia. Now it's being produced if it's necessary, we've got people to do it. The designers, we have engineers, we have this mind, we have people who will set it up. The companies that are already waiting, they're crying out for this job and we're saving money for other things, other problems. So do you know how poor and local self-government they have to give, how much they just give for these parts? Who stayed in those areas, most people who are older, who are not able to take care of themselves, who don't have enough money, so these people with microsolars, these people would be this energy addiction and that's the first one, that's the social criterion, it's no longer energy-dependent. But this government means it doesn't seem to accept it. That they don't accept. The explanation is unclear because it's much more important, it's very easy to explain to them for wind power plants, it's known who designed the roses of the wind, as much as for research, it's paid for, in the end who became the owner of those wind parks, who knows which way it went and whose hands it went into. I ask you fellow MPs, mainly from this 2/3 of Croatia, we see from the Gorski Kotar, there is the Dalmatian Zagor, Slavonia, there are us from all over, there are national minorities, mainly the Roma national minority to solve this problem, meaning energy addiction, but this does not suit the Government. I repeat once again, there is only one reason why there is no reason why in these areas we have people who depend on their assistance and when they depend on their assistance, then these citizens are our voters and citizens should oppose that we do not have monopolies in energy, again I repeat Croatia is at the top of the number of sunny days in the EU and at the bottom is by using microsolars, solar energy because it is much more important to use the meaning of wind parks, I repeat again where the state pays i.e. we consumers pay a billion and 600 kuna, that subsidy and the supplier pays another billion plus 500 million, 200 million salaries of state heating and electricity to poor families and local self-government and regional self-government, which is half a billion in this way of setting up microsolars with reduction of administration, reduced procedure from 8000 to 2000 kuna, decreases, we have meaning repeat and smartness, each part of the microsolare products in the Republic, starts to mean jobs, the economy, why, because someone has to set up microsolars, we have for these people, and for these 3 billion and 100 million kuna per year, we can place microsolares for a minimum price for 5 years on each roof in Croatia. To have independent families, not wind power plants and monopolies in the Republic of Croatia, which from our pockets, entrepreneurs, natural persons, which we pay, create entrepreneurs uncompetitive and this way the entrepreneur would be competitive if he, through microsolar, produced his energy, of course in summer times, produced more, it goes into the net and in winter less, and in winter more takes and it would be somewhere by the calculations of 10 kW, somewhere would be equal... spending by number of sunny days in the Republic of Croatia and that is worth it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's worth it and that's the only solution. This is the only solution because God has given us in the EU that we are a country with one of the largest sunny days. I'm sorry that the government refused this, this law means a year in the procedure, this was done by professional people, who deal with energy, I'm a man who's been speaking to them a lot, I'm very well-wiped, I've stood up for this because I come from these parts, and I think this would help the survival of people in these areas, create independent families, energy independent, open new jobs, save the country 3 billion kuna a year for other needs, I said like health care, doctors have a higher salary in these areas, if we had a better education, I said that 1/3 of local self-government doesn't have one child for kindergarten. So this law would ensure the survival of the work of the people in those areas because this is primarily a demographic measure. Em, which is important for national security because if you don't have a monopoly, especially if your stranger has a monopoly, then it's not national security, it's going to give a price and you're going to have a hard time controlling either HERA or anyone who controls them so you wouldn't bring them into this position that you're going to let them do whatever they want. This law but this law would essentially create families independent in this work by energy, reduce that amount and influence. As far as wind power stations are concerned, let's be honest. This is who among you before the election, wind power plants that go to foreign investors, 3 billion and 100 million kunas a year in their pockets and who knows how to invest, don't invest in Croatia, not one part of the wind power plant is from Croatia, not one part of it, not even I don't know if the transport, they don't even want Croatian carriers to transport it, but rather give something to local self-government, Trilj, Sinj, I'm talking about my end, and the wind parks are absolutely getting theirs and we're boasting that we've reached that quota of renewable sources. And this microsolars, every fraction of the microsolars can be produced in Croatia. Now it's being produced if it's necessary, we've got people to do it. The designers, we have engineers, we have this mind, we have people who will set it up. The companies that are already waiting, they're crying out for this job and we're saving money for other things, other problems. So do you know how poor and local self-government they have to give, how much they just give for these parts? Who stayed in those areas, most people who are older, who are not able to take care of themselves, who don't have enough money, so these people with microsolars, these people would be this energy addiction and that's the first one, that's the social criterion, it's no longer energy-dependent. But this government means it doesn't seem to accept it. That they don't accept. The explanation is unclear because it's much more important, it's very easy to explain to them for wind power plants, it's known who designed the roses of the wind, as much as for research, it's paid for, in the end who became the owner of those wind parks, who knows which way it went and whose hands it went into. I ask you fellow MPs, mainly from this 2/3 of Croatia, we see from the Gorski Kotar, there is the Dalmatian Zagor, Slavonia, there are us from all over, there are national minorities, mainly the Roma national minority to solve this problem, meaning energy addiction, but this does not suit the Government. I repeat once again, there is only one reason why there is no reason why in these areas we have people who depend on their assistance and when they depend on their assistance, then these citizens are our voters and citizens should oppose that we do not have monopolies in energy, again I repeat Croatia is at the top of the number of sunny days in the EU and at the bottom is by using microsolars, solar energy because it is much more important to use the meaning of wind parks, I repeat again where the state pays i.e. we consumers pay a billion and 600 kuna, that subsidy and the supplier pays another billion plus 500 million, 200 million salaries of state heating and electricity to poor families and local self-government and regional self-government, which is half a billion in this way of setting up microsolars with reduction of administration, reduced procedure from 8000 to 2000 kuna, decreases, we have meaning repeat and smartness, each part of the microsolare products in the Republic, starts to mean jobs, the economy, why, because someone has to set up microsolars, we have for these people, and for these 3 billion and 100 million kuna per year, we can place microsolares for a minimum price for 5 years on each roof in Croatia. To have independent families, not wind power plants and monopolies in the Republic of Croatia, which from our pockets, entrepreneurs, natural persons, which we pay, create entrepreneurs uncompetitive and this way the entrepreneur would be competitive if he, through microsolar, produced his energy, of course in summer times, produced more, it goes into the net and in winter less, and in winter more takes and it would be somewhere by the calculations of 10 kW, somewhere would be equal... spending by number of sunny days in the Republic of Croatia and that is worth it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's worth it and that's the only solution. This is the only solution because God has given us in the EU that we are a country with one of the largest sunny days. I'm sorry that the government refused this, this law means a year in the procedure, this was done by professional people, who deal with energy, I'm a man who's been speaking to them a lot, I'm very well-wiped, I've stood up for this because I come from these parts, and I think this would help the survival of people in these areas, create independent families, energy independent, open new jobs, save the country 3 billion kuna a year for other needs, I said like health care, doctors have a higher salary in these areas, if we had a better education, I said that 1/3 of local self-government doesn't have one child for kindergarten. So this law would ensure the survival of the work of the people in those areas because this is primarily a demographic measure. Em, which is important for national security because if you don't have a monopoly, especially if your stranger has a monopoly, then it's not national security, it's going to give a price and you're going to have a hard time controlling either HERA or anyone who controls them so you wouldn't bring them into this position that you're going to let them do whatever they want. It's a rule in the Republic so far, and I haven't seen many exceptions. This Law on Microsolars, which we have proposed, that electricity for self-supply from renewable energy, specifically from the sun, we expect from fellow parliamentary representatives to give certain amendments, if they have no reason why they are against this, and especially you from the government to say why you are against this law and why you influence foreign monosolists to wind power plants, and against microsolars? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142667	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142668	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, as one of the reasons for proposing this law, or one of the arguments why this law is good, you also mentioned the large number of sunny days that we are in the Republic of Croatia, fortunately we have. So while the whole world and the whole of Europe are turning to renewable energy sources, the Republic of Croatia is far behind, and now something called global warming is happening, and every day we witness it. And now I don't know why we are in many solutions in the Republic of Croatia among the last of the rest of Europe and instead of having a whole series of surfaces in the Republic of Croatia already covered with solar panels that will produce electricity, and when we look at this month in which we are now, today, that we have only two sunny days in this month, which is unfortunately a future that isn't so far away, it's likely that the Republic will pass a law like this when we no longer have half the sun days How much do we have today? [[Intruder: Thank you]] I don't understand why that is. [[Employer: The Answer of the Honored Representative of Bulja]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142669	You come from these areas which are also, this would mean a lot to legal persons, small entrepreneurs, and mainly families who are, energy is not able to pay for it. But I'll tell you one comparison. Mediterranean countries, an example of Italy and Greece, use 25 times as much solar energy as Croatians, the same Mediterranean countries as we do. For what? Is it much more important, our governments don't want it, because I don't know who it depends on, they don't want independent energy families, especially in our areas, which would mean a lot, they want dependent families and they want someone to have a monopoly. In this case, wind power plants have a monopoly where Croatian citizens pay out of their pocket a billion and 600 kn subsidy, 600 million + a billion kuna supplier, 25 times, that is crucial. We produce less solar energy than Italy and Greece, [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Mediterranean countries. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142670	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Keatazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142671	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, you mentioned in your introduction several times taking care of small people, people who don't even know about wind power plants, don't even know about solar power plants, don't know about half a billion, they want a connection or get... The electricity, especially in the settlements you mentioned. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have listened on many occasions, in the region of Dalmatia Zagora or in Roma settlements where Roma settlements become larger and wider than municipalities, Roma settlements have even more than 2,000 inhabitants, they mean nothing to wind power plants or solar plants, but they want a connection of electricity that they do not have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142672	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142673	My colleague Kajtazi, this very law solves these problems, microsolars are simply being set up, I repeat again, smartness in the Republic can produce and produce every piece of it, and it simply sets up and simply joins the network, and that is the only solution for us to create people independent, poor people, energy independent. You don't have any excuse here for your fellow Kajtazi not to support this, so this gives you a solution just to have electricity and to be independent and not to give them any money, but that both producers and consumers, the extra winter or summer goes into the net when they count, and in the summer it comes back, in winter it comes back in, and that's how it's settled. By this law, I repeat, my colleague Kajtazi, this is just for people who are poor and who are energy-dependent because they have no money for heating and no electricity. This is a very simple solution. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142674	Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Ivo Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. I am also saying that the government does not accept this bill for a number of reasons. Among other things, in the opening part, you said that we are not an existing law that is in force in line with EU legislation, it is fully in line with EU legislation. Also with this bill, this bill of law entangles you in several laws and in several sublegal acts where you would simply create additional administrative, administrative complications and simply would not be enforceable. As far as the measure of things is concerned, it is not true that the Government does not support the setting of microsolars, the absolute government is on the point that, we and you can agree that it is necessary in the Republic of Croatia to develop as many microsolars as possible on the houses of our citizens and on the roofs of businesses and all other electricity consumers who can simply do so in a way that, as you suggest, you do the annual net accounting, it is something that is absolutely unacceptable to us for the reasons that we are going by logic and it is already prescribed by law and already gives certain results and will produce even more results, it is that the monthly, monthly account is something that is acceptable. So the basic intensity of the law that is now in force and for your information since that law has been amended this way, is 127 demands whether it is possible to accept, is it possible to obtain the authorisation for connections under this law is given. 72 requests are, 127 requests are requested, 71 requests are already approved. So the system's already working. What matters to us, so we have opinions in the government and we have translated it into law to stimulate the customer with its own production in a way that it produces as much as it spends or possibly less and detimises it to produce more than it spends. Why? Because a people's language like you here would now expose your point of view to uncontrollably delivering electricity to the system in a way that you here did not say by this bill who would make up for this huge cost that a distributor would have. So what we want the distributor and that's HEP ODS and already whoever distributes it has to have a controlled situation in a way that knows how electricity gets into the system and who pays for it. In this case, according to our proposal, the law in force here in this part of the change in that electricity network is not paid. And you would have made this bill so that at the level of the year it didn't happen the same way. You'd practically let it be delivered, say by your more electricity than it's spent, not to pay for the net. And what does that mean? If then whoever has such a solar system and something, he's in a better position than the one that the solar system doesn't have. So whoever buys electricity from the system neatly and there's no solar on all the live pay nets, and in this case, as you suggested theoretically, I produce 1 kilowatt and 10 I deliver because it's an annual net account, it's all going into the system and there's no net, all great. It's not easy for us to accept. So we want a sustainable system that works in a way that works on a monthly basis and stimulates what? To stimulate citizens to produce their electricity in such a way that their accounts are clearly then minimal to HEP RWE, but to whom they are and to keep the system sustainable, not to disrupt the system. Especially you know when we talk about solars, when the electricity would be produced most in the summer. So, according to your proposal, you'd uncontrollably let that power into the system and we want whoever makes solar, well calculated how many solars it takes to produce about as much as it spends, and then it's not a problem for the system at all, the system regulates it without a problem because they produce on the spot and there and they spend. And that's what's the fundamental difference between you and our proposal, or the applicable law. There is one more thing exactly where the government intends and the proposal, this process is already under way fat in the fund that other than the hot water collectors will now very quickly be placed on the tender by the fund that will co-finance, the solar panels are going to the public tender very quickly. So the government acts on two colossals, edits the system, or arranged it in a way to be sustainable, plus it goes through the end of the year with subsidisation, capital subsidisation of the purchase of solar panels for citizens, i.e. solar power plants. Why? Because the legal people in the situation are quite different, they are in the VAT system, they have 20% investment in the beginning because they clearly take VAT as before the investment tax, the citizens here you are, we all here individuals who are not in the VAT system can't pay back that VAT, meaning a minimum of what the fund will definitely subsidise and that is VAT and we hope that it will be more. So this is our concept that is absolutely consistent with practice in the EU and that will certainly result in a higher solar setting in our houses and that is absolutely something that, I tell you what we agree on in the idea that solarians should be encouraged to make themselves because they are gaining certain circumstances that I simply don't want to talk about here in your way. And it's already gotten a little too great for you to always mention the same people, the same idea, the same thing, you're talking about foreign investors. But you must know that out of 600 megawatts of power plants that you keep saying are owned by foreign governments there are reliable 150 megawatts in exclusively Croatian ownership, reliable if not more. And so don't talk to the Croatian public about these billions all the time, when you say that a billion are being distributed by distributors, say that from 1.1% of those billions that were previously not distributors but repurchasers are now going to market, so it's certainly not a billion more than 700, respectively. Wait, I'm just saying what you're saying, I'm saying the same way here right now. So let's not talk about the story of energy poverty all the time now that you're going to solve something. In no normal country in the EU, and we are an EU member, it does not say anywhere that energy poverty will be dealt with on the burden of electricity distributors or anyone else. Because you would make energy poor families the producers of electricity that will, they will thus become energy independent. First of all, you didn't tell them who was going to build them these solar plants. So you'd build solar plants from the state budget. Secondly, you didn't say who would, who would pay all the costs that they would generate that electricity is being exported, exported to the system, so the logic of energy poverty is that from the state budget, one who is energy poor is compensated for his energy poverty and that's only right because it's not, it's not possible otherwise. And microsolars should be dealt with in such a way as the Government has suggested, that it is meant by a sustainable system, by encouraging in terms of capital, organised system in terms of the organisation of a complete system that it functions in technical and other terms, that it is sustainable, that it is improved. And it will absolutely improve into that I am 100% sure and you will see it and the results are already seen because you do not mention how much these companies have already taken and encouraged, in terms of, I am talking about companies that have set up their power plants and through competitiveness and cohesion even had this incentive for energy efficiency both for panels and for everything else. We now have to simply do this so that our citizens are in a position to make this project more profitable in a way that we encourage them by the Energy Efficiency Fund, plus that the sustainability of the entire system is such that our primary goal is that their accounts are reduced to a minimum, minimum amount in such a way that their consumption is rational and planned and that is rational, sustainable planning of such a system that will clearly contribute to the solarisation of Croatia which we can agree all of us from the South who know that is our potential and absolutely all of us support it, but we can't do what we say to people's language for the sake of meat, kill a cow. We just can't let everyone go at all costs right now, we have to do it the way it is. It's not a word of any interest because this government, this ministry where I've been working almost another year, find me a law in which we've kept someone's interests, we're absolutely transparent, absolutely communicating with the interested public, we're absolutely doing our utmost to make that solution the fruit of this maximum compromise, because clearly it's not always going to be satisfied with every solution completely, but we're trying to be perfectly rational that all these laws that have been waiting, among other things, and during the term of office of your governments and your ministers, which have not been brought up in time, which have caused us a lot of directives of these pilots and various warnings by the EU, we've all slightly caught the rhythm, and that's it. And you just can't always feel with the same story that it's gonna be great. It can't be as great as you think it is. We will give this to these; We will save them because they will produce electricity for you. Well, don't, so people aren't exactly naive to think it's that simple. Mr. Katazi gave you a nice, nice answer, people are looking for a connection, and then, as part of that connection, the possibility of his electricity being cheaper and that's the whole story. And this government has already made all this possible in a way that legal and any other preconditions for this are created, and now we need to give further incentive, to the coma, to citizens that they can further have the feasibility of this whole project, to reduce the feasibility of this project by a few years, and I have no doubt that the one, especially that part of the citizens who are at sea who simply have the opportunity to do so. And as for the economy, what is very important is that we have already helped to make solarisation and economic facilities through various EU funds, and we need to help even bigger ones. In new programming, we also need to think about how to solarise any ideas like what came from Vrgorec this for water supply facilities and various situations where it is simply necessary to finance it from other funds, clearly that it would again gain the feasibility in order to ultimately get these citizens cheaper water or cheaper electricity. So, what I have to say to you is that don't experience the government of the Republic of Croatia as an enemy who hates you and your initiative hates you, absolutely not, we support the initiative and that it solarizes Croatia and that, there absolutely behind it we stand, but unfortunately your legal proposal is not good enough for the government to accept it, but the law that the government has already passed is excellent and be assured will achieve great results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142676	Thank you very much. Now, for a moment, we're going to interrupt this debate about this wheel so we can normally, because one hour this one has already gone to the club's point of view. We will now return to our debate and replicas to the presentation of State Secretary Milatić and will be the first to speak with respect, the first replica will be the respected representative of Bulj. Here you go. A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142678	An apology. You say secretary, where'd you get the money to install the microsolars? So that's what we've calculated, which is why we're proposing because 200 million kuna states give for heating and electricity, and local self-government is still so much. Even more. About half a billion somewhere. For 200 million kuna, 8 thousand microsolars of 10 kW can be placed. That's the money. And not to give more money next year than that man has solved energy. That's exactly the problem you're talking about. The funding of this law has been settled here. From this money that you subsidize annually for help, and you subsidize every year, this is how we solved the problem for 200 million kuna, except the state gives. 8,000 microsolars per 10 kW. And I'm going to speak to this individual now that these other questions are on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142679	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142680	Dear Representative Bulj. I'll do it again. As far as energy poverty is concerned, it needs to be resolved from the budget and you cannot impose on those who are energy poor that they only have to deal with their situation with the solar system. People are sorry, people are heating up in different ways, energy is used in different ways, so as far as this is concerned, energy poverty is being resolved from the budget, and the solar subsidisation that you're talking about now would go from the budget, we think that the address of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which is not a clean budget, but clearly in the budget, is also planned, so we have a source from where it would be financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142681	The next replica is Djujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142682	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Milatić, you said the government supports this idea and yes, but not on this proposal by MOST, but that this issue should be arranged that it is arranged and that it needs to be arranged to the end in the way the government proposes. However, it is evident that these effects of the government are not yet seen and that this is slow and you are here in your explanation why this proposal should not be accepted listed a whole series of further improvements that the government is allegedly working on. But we don't see it, we've now heard from you some words, just to work on it and to prepare for it. I will, in some of my proposals and what I think is not right to say in my individual discussion. But I am interested in what deadlines are these when some measures will be implemented that you have announced that the government is doing them and preparing them, or when can we expect an increase in the use of solar in Croatian society, i.e. increased household use? Here, when?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142683	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142684	Thank you. As regards the application of the new Law on Renewable Elections of Energy, it is already in place and its application is ongoing and users, as I have already said, there are those who simply apply this law, and also greater application of this law in terms of this topic that we are talking about here today, which are microsolars at our citizens' houses, we expect safely at the end of the year when we come out of the fund and when people report, and it is clear that it will encourage them to enter these investments, easier, clearly, with that support than without it. But we are sure that the effects will take place in 2020 and how to see from now on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142685	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, you yourself have determined that we do not have enough microsolars in Croatia and by talking to people who would install it, therefore, and by doing our analysis, we have actually realized that there are two reasons why there are not enough, and that is the cost of documentation, which is large, is currently around 8 thousand kuna, this law of ours would reduce to 2 thousand kuna and return on investment, so no one is going to install microsolares if the investment is around 10 years old, so it's the annual calculation of this proposal that instead of monthly return to investment by 5-15%, that's one of the key reasons why people don't install microsolars.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142687	Responsibilities of the esteemed Secretary of State:
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142688	Thank you. We have simplified the whole procedure by regulations and amendments to the law so that the assumption is that the documentation will also stand less and we are convinced that for all those who are not legal persons but who are exclusively natural persons, the only way to encourage them and that what you have said to them is to reduce the maturity of the return on investment is to support capital investment in terms of support for the installation of equipment and with this support we are sure then the system will have no problem giving results much, much more intensively than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142689	The next replica is the respected representative Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142690	Dear Secretary of State, the law on the self-supply of electricity from renewable energy sources, I know the situation on the market and I know the application of this law that you state, but our law was passed in the process last year and it would like to stress that the aim of each government should be energy efficiency, so both for citizens and for industry and for tourism. Answer me why, even though all the conditions have been removed to this day, there is no energy in that house because they also contribute to the energy efficiency of the families because it means replacing the facades, replacing the ticks, by replacing some systems and to pellets and could be financed by solarists there, why 30 million euros from European funds stands and you are now planning to finance again before the end of the year from national funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142691	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142692	Thank you, that question is that you have asked me from the Ministry of Construction's portfolio but as much information as I have, a large number of applications are expected and said because we were also interested in why it is a little late in this competition, simply preparing for the whole competition will take some time and the competition will go, you know that the directive and all this is already allowed by the EU, so that we expect this competition very quickly but the fact, we cannot be brought into the situation that the Ministry of Civil Engineering will open the competition and that people are then expecting a large period of time to respond to this competition, so we need to prepare physically that this competition when it starts, that it is being processed within a very short period of time and to achieve results, that is the only reason why it is now a little late.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142693	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Miro Bulj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142694	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, it is my duty to clarify some of the things you said in your presentation and in your opinion of the government that is negative on this proposal. I will immediately repeat what I said and say earlier in the replica, 25 times more using the solar energy of the Mediterranean country, an example of Italy and Greece, which means that we have this potential, you have asked here a few questions which are essentially this law and the proposal and basically the basis of this law, where you say who will pay, from where money for it. It'll all be muppets. As for the network of these suppliers as they will be paid, we're not talking about 10 kW stations about solars and basically where the wind plants are, who knows how many megawatts or what they don't, who pays for it. Whoever pays the subsidy, you said that the Croatians have a lot of stakes in wind power plants but mostly that monopoly, there's a monopoly and here we solve the problem with money in one year only for these 200 million kunas that we give through the social measures for heating and through other measures, it comes to half a billion from local to state level, it means only up to 200 million, 8000 microsolares of 5 kW, meaning it can be solved annually for these half billion kunas and those 20,000 microsolars, of course where it can be set up, most people would want it, if there were no account, probably the Roma community, here, here fellow Keatazi has gone, wanted, families would not want who are in the problem, which they call all the time and families to which they call their fellow Pupovac, and they would like to have an account annually and to have solved this problem. Speaking of nets, do you know how much local self-government gives these families a year? So I'm telling you, state and local self-government, half a billion kuna a year and this one-time measure, we've solved 20,000 of these families. And somewhere around 64,000 I think he's getting out of the country, here I have, I haven't brought it, I'm going to read you exactly how much they receive for the warm-up of social measures, family, which means only through this in 3 years we've solved these people and that money basically stays in the budget and part of that and pays the network because through local self-government because that family is not going to be the amount of the price again, that would be minor, maybe it shouldn't be paid and the supplier again. Depending on consumption, of course. So this is an ideal solution. But it's obviously a much more important monopoly. I will mention again the problem from Sinj, the man has received from HEP that he has installed microsolar panels of 30 kW in accordance with the law and that it is prescribed and only needs permission from HERA, seems to me or anyone. And he didn't win, 2013. The man's invested, I'll be here in public, pressuring that I'll keep it there, to convince you, every year, man, but it was a priority to whom he assigned subsidies, wind power plants, not to that man who invested 60,000 euros without the incentive of the state in 30 kW solar panels on the roof. This is the truth that I'm telling you, I'll take it, you think... With that man, living near me, it's no problem, if he doesn't want to, I'll show them, actually as soon as I get to Sinj, I'll take pictures of them, I'll publish here, I promise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I promise, but the problem is that we were giving a quota for renewables to the wind power plants that we pay out of our pockets a billion and 600 million kuna subsidies, citizens, entrepreneurs of course you say, and who will pay the network to the supplier. Well, we pay half a billion kuna a year from local to state level through social measures. So this is exactly the law with the financial solution, so this isn't the law so you like to say populist. They've got the exact numbers in this law, we've got the calculations, and here we've shown it we've been, so we're not allowed to show on, here on the screen this one when it was that movie, to explain it correctly. So here is the solution to the problem of energy dependence through myrosolares because we are the richest in sunny days in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142695	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142696	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, I wouldn't attack wind power plants and it's good, it's good projects, it's good for Croatia, it's the same renewable energy, and it's very often you attack that part, so let's say what I'm saying is that I disagree with you. I think it's good projects like this and your proposal, and I've replicated to you in essence, Mr. Milatić said that your idea is good, that your idea is good and that the government also supports this idea, and then he cited a number of reasons why your proposal is not good and that your bill is not enforceable. Now I'm curious, if this idea is good and acceptable to the government, your proposal has been in the process for a year, why has the government not made its proposal in the past year with much better solutions and much better measures, not because what you are now saying is that what you are doing now would have the effects of it, you should not have increased, should this or why you have not given amendments to this MOST proposal I believe that a colleague of yours from MOST would accept any good proposal from the government, here comes my colleague Bulja. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142697	Thank you. Answer, the response of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142698	Col. Djijic agrees with you, we have put forward a proposal for a legal framework, from this framework I would say with a solution, we should find solutions, we have financial frameworks and through certain amendments through a legal framework that offers meaning laws and through which we would have to give a solution in which way to solve it all, but we do not have here except negative opinions. So the government has given amendments to this proposal then of course they would accept because this is in the interest that, I mean, this is, we're giving meaning a legal framework to solve the problem, to solve the problem in the Republic of Croatia. As far as wind power plants are concerned, I have a problem with what's being drawn out a billion and 600 kuna is being paid, so the subsidy is another billion, so somewhere around 2.5 billion, and basically not one part of the wind power plant is from Croatia, so ours isn't built, everything is imported. And most of it goes out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and these solutions that would solve citizens' problems are not accepted. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142699	Now we move on to the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142700	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Assistant Minister, respected fellow Members and colleagues today will talk about the MOST proposal of the Law on Self-Energy from the renewable sources of energy, here is a year passed today only on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, this should be one practice that should be changed for sure, given that the innovative solutions that should be accepted and socially accepted need to come on the agenda as soon as possible to achieve their full potential and to actually lead to changes in society that are possible, but they need to be provided with a legislative framework. First of all, this bill aims to reduce energy consumption through increasing energy efficiency and increasing the share of energy from renewable energy sources. It also has the effect of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in one of the objectives of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. This legal framework for self-supply of electricity produced for its own account in installations with installed power means up to 10 kW this is important to emphasize so there would be targeted by those households, those citizens, small and medium entrepreneurs up to 10kW possibility of releasing excess electricity produced into the network. The first goal is self-supply, the second goal is to use renewable energy sources to reduce imports and actually use those resources that Croatia has. The third thing that was important to us, and what was proposed by this law, even though this came up with a negative opinion from the government, is an annual account. Since we know that Croatia has different and micro-climates and that citizens in one part of the year certainly spend more electricity, and in the other part produce more, so to reduce the actual annual calculation, it contributes to the rationalisation of the costs themselves. I would like to stress that through this law a legal framework is being created where we can, and today Croatia according to the Minister of Demography, the Minister of the Youth and Social Policy says that 37 million kunas were from, meaning from Croatia's budget for 39,403 users. So they're receiving a fee between 850 and 950 kuna for heating costs. Who says that once such a legal framework is not adopted that the same measure can be proposed in this amount of 37 million kuna to install microsolars and that, in fact, according to the report of the Advocate General for 2017 and 2018, there are 10% of citizens in Croatia who cannot pay their bills for energy, either electricity or other. Of course, well, you're now speaking here as a representative of the government can't be installed by all microsolars, so, of course, not everyone can, but the vast majority sure as hell be able to. Where there is a possibility we have proposed a legal framework through which you will be able to measure those energy-hazarded citizens. Also, you know that 200 kunas are now being financed and that it is being charged as a solidarity fee and that it is being paid by suppliers. Zero, so 3 lip per kW. We suggest that this amount which is a solid fee not to be given every month 200 kuna because in this way people will not come out of energy poverty but actually the amount of, here in 2017, 66,000 people 860 citizens of Croatia received a fee of 200 kuna vouchers. And these people, let's look at the next year 2018 the amount, the amount of users is almost the same and the fee itself is almost the same. Which means we don't have a concrete measure to address energy poverty. And the money stands out, so in particular, 11 million kunas stand out and 37 million kuna stands out, means for the heat. And then where there are other social benefits of 1,500 kn means in 6 m, or 3 thousand kuna, how many units of local self-government they give. Self-supply would be useful here for households with more children. It would also be useful for poor citizens. This law proposed simplifying, and not as you say, actually laying down administrative procedures because it would actually be this law that we prescribed... Top shop. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that everything has to be done in 15 days. So these are concrete measures that would certainly improve Croatia's position on the Doing Business scale, meaning on a scale of ease of business because you know that the electricity connection affects very much. We aim here through this legal framework to reduce the need to import energy and focus on using our own resources. We currently have this position that Croatia has on renewable energy and sun sources that do not contribute at all because there are only 14 photovoltaic kW per capita, while the European average is 200 per capita. Slovenia has 10 times our size, Italy and Greece have 350 kW per capita. It means average. This legal framework would help citizens, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because it would allow for a simple administrative procedure for their own needs, an accounting period for a year, because there are some deviations in consumption over the year, there would be flexibility, documentation would reduce the cost of producing documentation from 8 thousand kuna to approximately 2 thousand kuna and Croatia would reduce the meaning of its greenhouse gases by 4%. I also believe that this government, especially the Ministry of Environment and Energy sector, does not contribute as much as it could to energy efficiency measures because you are, the people of your portfolio at the Energy Efficiency Fund because you have not called, because you are also an implementing body, level 2, so you can't pretend now that the Ministry of Construction is something, so now you've been informed. So what is important is that the EU has secured 30m euros for the energy reconstruction of houses. That money stands, there is no administrative reason and you know that it was removed under that directive last year, 2018. I must make it clear that there are no competitions in the competition plan this year, it was announced for June 2019, an energy reconstruction of houses, but it is not there. For 2019, he doesn't have any. Now, you're speaking here from this pay phone, and I guess we should give you a round of applause, if you had provided the legal framework and that 127 requests have already been filed. And I'm telling you that 25 times more Greece and Italy use renewable energy sources from the sun. And you're talking about 127 requests and 71 approved applications. Well, I don't know, if I didn't feel sad, I'd find it funny. And after two years of working this government, you're talking about some former governments and something. So two years when this government needed the Law on the financing of election promotion, political parties and referendum, it was passed overnight. And this MOST law has been waiting since last year, a year in drawers and normally that if we want to step up with trends, if we want to step up with innovations, then it cannot happen that some law and laws that provide the legislative framework, so that Croatia and Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs can step up with trends, stand in drawers for a year. And they don't come to the agenda, but when it comes to ensuring the financing of the election promotion, when it comes to ensuring that, then the law can be passed in one night and can take effect within 1 day in the National Journal. And when it comes to energy reconstruction of houses, when we have 30 million from EU funds, then Minister Stromar answers me, I also asked him, of course, that there is not enough building operations, in response, imagine and that there is no, he says, material available in Croatia. How is it possible when the government boasts so much employment, when the government boasts with all possible indicators to go up? So where is this construction operation? Or it is true that people are moving out of Croatia, that employers are a very large administrative burden, that they are very high tax burdens on wages and that they cannot actually deal with it. Make up your mind. I repeat, MOST submitted a request, in fact, a proposal for a law on self-supply of electricity from renewable energy sources a year ago. As far as this solution is concerned, it is aimed at self-supplying means both households, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and also the goal is to increase our energy efficiency, where we can almost reduce greenhouse gases, and these, please, in your final presentation, to present concrete figures because you are once again happily announcing the end of 2019 and the competition for solarists. How much will be the subsidy of these solar plants that citizens can make and how much funding will be provided for in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142701	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Mato Cičak, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142702	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected assistant minister, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Discussing the proposal for a law on the self-supply of electricity from renewable energy sources, which was sent to the Assembly by the Association of Representatives of Independent Lists, we are primarily talking about the basic reasons why this law was in front of us. The MOST colleagues propose the adoption of this law in order to meet the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to fully comply with Croatia's legislation with the EU acquis and with the objectives of increasing the production and use of renewable energy sources. This basic reason for the adoption of this law is not good for the simple reason that Croatia is fully harmonised in this area and we believe that this law does not achieve further harmonisation. The adoption of such a bill contributes to increasing administrative barriers to the use of renewable energy sources because the proposal for a law is very narrow and limited intervention in areas subject to other regulations. Your proposal for an annual net account is not acceptable because it is an outdated model of incentive that is not sustainable in the long term. Such a way of calculating damages electricity suppliers that we force to do business with customers who have the ability to use the network in two directions, they will pay less, almost nothing at the annual level. This method of calculation they would actually use the network for free and the price would be significantly higher for other users. In addition, the annual calculation equalises the price of the extra energy supplied with the aim of electricity at any point in the year. Knowing how the market is by the ratio of supply and demand determines the price in this way directly harms suppliers. The existing legal framework allows customers to become customers with their own production, allowing them to sell excess electricity. That framework is in line with EU energy regulations, practices in most EU countries and is in line with the Republic of Croatia's energy regulations. I will yet conclude that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to accept this bill, the Committee on Economy has reached a conclusion that does not accept such a bill. Following all this, I can conclude that this proposal for a law on the self-supply of electricity from renewable energy sources is not acceptable to us either, and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142703	Thank you. The next club representative is that... And you had to get back to me before... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the promoter, well, well, everything's fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's my colleague Bulj, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142704	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, everything you said, you basically repeated what they said from the government, basically we simply gave a legal framework, we gave arguments and we expected you to give us amendments because we need to be aware that 25% more or less use solars, both Greece and Italy and other Mediterranean countries, and that's the data we know. This law not only encourages us, which mentions energy poverty where the state singles out huge money according to official indicators. We also encourage economic development here because every single time I repeat a microsolar is produced in Croatia. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, the financial aspect here is solved because we stand out as I said huge money and with that money means we give a legal framework and within what is invested in energy poverty we are talking about 200 million kunas of 8 thousand microsolars of 5 kilowatts. It doesn't have to mean that every object has to be set up, but most of it probably can and we're not the same climate area, but we still have a lot of sunny days. So you didn't say anything new here except the government's opinion. But believe me, our only wealth is in terms of wind energy, which is not used very well, because huge money goes to foreign investors and does not return to the Republic of Croatia and not a single piece of wind power plant has been built in the Republic of Croatia. That by this law we are essentially giving, means this problem with energy poverty, the launch of economic development from production to the establishment of construction, the most important, these are new jobs. And I think this is, and the most important thing is the energy independence of all institutions and institutions and the meaning of our citizens. And I don't see any law that would make this legal framework go away and, of course, the other one, and the law needs to be settled. And administratively with this, we're just speeding up the process. And as hard as it is to set now, I will repeat to you the example that the man set the entrance in 2013 means, set everything in line, HEP gave him permission in 2013. Microsolare on its cost of 60 thousand euros in Sinj mine, more specifically in the village of Karakasica on the facility he set up and cannot get to join because they were intended for other large, so foreign owners of the wind power plant, this subsidized part of the renewable energy source. Even he didn't ask for a subsidy, just to join him, but he can't get through, it's holding back that, our wealth of natural wealth, it's the sun and a lot of sunny days. I was right in the first and said that a lot of things were changed by this law and I'm still standing and MOST Club behind this, for a year there was this law, the government could have given amendments, it could have given something else, however, it's nothing and with it it's very important note to cut the cost, so, documents from 8,000,00 kn to 2,000,00 kn, which means that for 6,000,00 kn or about 70% would have been less costs of this legal framework, and money has. You come from a local level, you know that you have people who are needed, they're energy, they don't have money and they don't solve that problem absolutely, so, you know, he's not going to be poor, which you just said, I'm talking about energy poverty, people are dependent on it, and I don't see any problem, and you know that this would be a good solution, is this money that's invested in heating and electricity that we pay the energy people who are poor, so in this way you'd be able to solve this problem and you'd certainly help these people from your local level to be independent energy, only if you don't have any other interest in being dependent on you and that's aid 200, 300 kn, 400 and get a vote tomorrow, right? It tells me everything, I don't think I see any reason to depend, not in the Republic of Croatia politics governments so they want addicts to lose their dignity and that with these subsidies of public money essentially become their voters and that's the problem, I don't see any problem in this law, if you have I'd like your club to amend [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142705	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142706	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Milatić, colleagues and colleagues, and above all, here we at the SDP Representatives' Club think that this idea presented by the Most is a good idea, I do not fully agree with the representatives of the Government who say that the existing legal solution is adequate and completely satisfactory and that the number of applications that people have applied for shows that this law is good. So, statistically speaking, it should be much more, much stronger, we'll see, slowly. I can only say that on several occasions we have already talked about this idea and these solutions in this House of Commons, let's just say the last time we mentioned the possibility of citizens putting together more power-generating panels at the end of the day, so our HDZ colleagues laughed at us here and said that we were talking stupidly, not you, Assistant Minister, but representatives of the HDZ, but what do I mean? You were talking about, one of the reasons why the government also cited why this bill of MOST is not good is to bring imbalances, let's say, on the market during production, especially in the summer months of the excessive amount of electricity produced, etc., that this should be regulated, and look, we consider in the SDP that maybe even people shouldn't be limited to production at all, why we wouldn't prescribe that people, not that they have as little bills, that they produce a little less than what they spend, some products as much as they can produce, some products as they can produce, so let it be prescribed that HEP that the surplus they produce, must buy from citizens, so let the citizens earn some money, so that, so do other countries that are developed and that are advanced. I was at the Conference on Sustainable Development last year on the role of sustainable development parliaments in Israel, and Israel presented to us there where they came from in the production of renewable energy, they have a project called Gring Knesset, the vote of the Israeli Parliament. So they have total electricity and all energy is produced from solar energy, from panels set up in the Israeli Parliament and in the hall stands, in the entrance to parliament there is a dial that shows all the indicators, how much energy is produced and how much money they have saved, they have paid the entire investment for a year and 10 months after that, and after that, they will make a living, earning through savings, meaning the savings they save on energy. I do not know if we in the Republic of Croatia have such examples that public authorities are using renewable energy, except for example, I know that in the Primorje-Gorski County, therefore, we have a building in the Primorje-Gorskina County that fully produces all the energy needed for this building, from electricity, heating and all and therefore, it is an example of how responsible authorities implement the programmes and measures of sustainable development. So here are my colleagues talking, and here we are the land of God by the number of hours of the sun and by the space that could produce renewable energy. We're working very little on it. I don't agree with my colleagues at MOST when he tells us about the wind power plants. I support wind power projects, and every renewable energy source for me is welcome, and I don't see the problem in that, and that there are foreign investors if there aren't enough of our own, so we better have production, than that we don't have any if we're not able to. I would expand even more because what we have a lot of sun, we have a lot of wind, let's say our storm is, the storm is also very familiar, known in our neighborhoods, and it's a shame not to use it, so, therefore, the advanced countries are 30, 40 years ago. Using wind power plants, we're just getting started. There are countries that put panels on the sea, not only on land and on their land spaces, but the entire surface of the sea are covered with panels and draw energy. Why wouldn't the Republic of Croatia be on the trail to invest here, so let's let the citizens produce themselves, often people tell me on the road why we can't produce electricity and sell extras to HEP, so we can make some of it. Then you don't need a subsidy either, you're calling for a subsidy, I guarantee you open that space to make people build it themselves without a subsidy if they knew they were going to produce some excess energy and that there was a state firm that would buy it and distribute it further. So this is what the SDP advocates, this is an interesting year 2018, 2019, the UN and many world organisations are working on education, discussing sustainable development programmes, and this is the sustainable development of the top topic in the world today. Except in Croatia. So we participate in all these conferences, but as a country we don't do much ourselves, and that's the future. And when we look at global warming, shortages, pollution and everything that's happening to us in the world, and so in our homeland, many countries are also turning to green ways of producing energy, but above all, they turn and protect the environment because it's putting us all at risk. And there would be Croatia, I can't believe that we are like a country always among the last. So, when everyone introduces something, it means by all accounts, we're the last ones. Here, I'm glad we're recently among the first in Europe, but after a lot of pressure and 3 discussions here legalized the production of medical marijuana, let's say, here, we had to break down over it, but that's one economic chance. And here we are, thank God, among the first in Europe, and there will be the effects of that. Why don't we do the same in these issues first in Europe, and then earn our construction sector, manufacturing sector, etc. It's not perfect for this proposal, a colleague from MOST, there are many shortcomings, as you said and as the government said. But this proposal has been in the process for a year. There hasn't come a single proposal by the government to fix this, except for, in the meantime, you've made your legal solution that is currently in effect, but it's not good either. It's not good either, because it doesn't give results, and the results and the times when they'll be seen, what we're talking about, what you're talking about here all the time is resting on words. So we, you're saying at the end of the year we'll call, next year there'll be a rise, etc., but that's all we'll see, we'll be, we'll go. And let's say this proposal has been standing for a year. Why didn't you fix it? Why didn't you do some of these things you listed as deficiencies through your proposal? But some good suggestion from here, why didn't you put it into your bill? Those are the questions we ask ourselves. On the other hand, no amendments to the MOST colleagues have come as far as I know, I don't even know that they will come, but I believe that they would accept any good proposal that would improve Croatia's situation on this matter. So I say once again, we at the SDP Club will support this law, we don't think it's ideal, there's a lot of shortcomings, but it's certainly a much better solution than what we have today, and we could improve this area, and above all because we support the more use of renewable energy in households and in ordinary citizens, let's say so. And that, apart from the ecological aspect, would also make energy independence and our citizens, but also our country that could be a pioneer, we have God-given natural resources that we can use in energy and it's a shame not to take advantage of it. That's why we're here, and we're in the SDP to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142707	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142708	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, thank you very much for your support and for everything you have said, that we have certainly here and the shortcomings and we are ready to accept after a year of what was in Government all their remarks, and their only objection not to accept this law, that the Parliament does not accept. So any amendment, any change, we're willing to accept because we think this is an idea on the trail of which legal framework should be sought through this legal framework. Of course, with all the shortcomings that are probably inside, which should be changed, however we do not, you have well pointed out no amendment or proposal that we should accept to pass this law. And that would be constructive from the government. So they went into their law, law enforcement, so that, as well, they remembered the microsolars, but the fact that their law still has no measures, no results, that we are still those who use solars 25 times less than other Mediterranean countries, mainly Italy and Greece. So we have the possibility, I agree, I agree that the surplus, why don't our citizens produce a surplus, why don't the HEP pay that surplus that's going to be sold on the market, I don't see any reason why our families, not just have, be without a bill or pay the surplus they spend, why don't we make a living? After all, everything, times have changed. Nothing less energy is spent in winter than summer. Today, air conditioning, they simply, so the time has come for electricity to almost the same in winter and summer. In time, such cooling devices increase electricity consumption. So, here, I expect from the Government, if we have to ask for a break, that you take another good look at this law, that you give these amendments that we agree with you and accept this law. I don't know, if we're going to ask for a break as much as we can, here's what I'm asking you to do, so you can call the prime minister, maybe he'll agree that we'll finally start in the Republic and set up a microsolar, we'll start, we've got the brains to get the construction started, that people set it up. I just don't know what you're offering us on this bill. What's your point? Besides the pamphlet you sent us, I have to say the pamphlet, which is the financial framework. So you see how much money is spent on people who are subsidized, let alone those citizens of our company, let alone our citizens who are subsidized by heating and electricity. I believe if other states can do less sunny days than Finland, others, I believe we must take advantage of it. The MOST Club also gave this bill with the intention of agreeing together and with colleagues from the SDP, colleagues from other parties, with you from the Government, this is our intention, here we are not talking about black swans, we are talking about our citizens' problems, is the bald swan or is the black swan, I don't know where you belong, and I don't care whose problem it is. I have a problem with my citizens living, it is probably a problem for my colleagues in Gorski Kotar, a colleague in Slavonia and colleagues here in Zagreb and the surrounding area who live here, and energy cannot bear it, and why they, here, a colleague of Sladolev is a professor, why should schools not have through this legal framework the possibility of setting up microsolars, not to be a procedure from these amounts. So the institutions that I can have, and that would be a school savings, and they wouldn't still have a sponge and chalk, some schools literally don't have chalk and a sponge to erase what's written on the school board. Therefore, this is one framework from which it provides, stems certain solutions, with all the shortcomings that a colleague at the SDP Club said. I expected minimally us from the MOST Club after a year that you will make certain remarks on this law, and you have made comments on where we in this legal framework have solved this problem and in our own, in this explanation we have given it. So let's use the potential we have, if Italy and Greece can produce 25 times as much. This energy from the solar panels why wouldn't we. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142709	Thank you very much. I would just like all the MPs who obviously have not read them to the Rules of Procedure to draw attention to them that no amendments can be given to the first reading. We will now move on to individual participation in the debate, so the first one will be spoken by the respected representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142710	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There's a lot that's already been said and in this legal I'm going to speak from some position of my own, so the professor at school. I remember when we were in eighth grade at a school in Rudes, an old school that we were heating up on coal and since I was such a little naughty student, so when there was a test, then a couple of us climbed up to the top of the school and closed the chimney, and that way we actually prevented exams for which we weren't prepared, here with microsolars, this couldn't happen. So, according to our data, so from 109 district schools, 245 are hiding on solid fuels, we don't think that's good in the 21st century. We also believe that these children who are also heating on these fuels do not have the same conditions of education as those that do not, because the warming of these schools is much longer, so it takes especially in some areas that are colder and what actually shocks the whole situation that the Government will not accept this law and all the time we actually had a mantra from government representatives d they accept something constructive, that there are no constructive proposals from the opposition. However, here statistics show that the opposition accepts the legal proposals of the ruling majority sometimes and unanimously, and that we in the Croatian Parliament did not therefore have an example that the ruling accepts some opposition proposal, a legal proposal. Well, I guess, statistically, some of these great legal proposals would be good. So we think that this legal proposal is good, maybe it needs to be changed in some small details, we think that it would benefit citizens and small entrepreneurs the most. This, we think, would create a completely different picture of Croatia, which is already present in the world, and that we are an ecological country, healthy food, so here is not just a story about microsolars, this is a story about a brand of Croatia as an ecological so country that cares about its environment, which uses its resources, which is the sun, which uses its resources, which is healthy ecological food. It's actually a lot of a wide circled story about the microsolars themselves and what's key to this story, which is actually that saying, so that the Chinese proverb, to make the poor one, you can give the poor man the fish, but that you'll help him if you teach him to catch her. So this is actually the story. As much as there is no vision in our government, but in fact in our local leaders. Here, I will give an example of the City of Zagreb when this recent storm took place, where 100ths and 100ths and 1000ths of wood were cut, so I was in my neighborhood over 300, 400 trees that were cut, I looked at Sljeme, I suggested that the wood for the cost of the citizens of the City of Zagreb be drunk, so I asked myself what the energy value of these trees is and it is not top quality, but it can be used for heating, that it be left for the summer to dry and to be given to Zagreb people who do not have so much heat. We have calculated how many of these trees there are that the City of Zagreb could therefore give to all our citizens, but I have not received any answer, probably these trees and trees will end up either in compost or somewhere to rot. Here's just one example of how we can use our own, so here's one thing we can't use for something good. And I repeat again here we are ready for all constructive proposals regarding this law and we stand behind our legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142711	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142712	Thank you very much. You've compared the school well, remember how the coal was at the time you went to school. Not that it was then in the coal school but now in the Split-Dalmatia County where I come from still using heating, coal or wood. So a year ago, the school principal asked me to in one area of school if I could help him somehow if, in any way, he had to build a wood mill that had nowhere to go with the trees that lay in the classrooms. So even today, we still have such schools until this government is clearly responding to being in these schools of microsolars and thus to solve this problem of these and these students and classrooms, that in this way we also have an air-conditioning in the classrooms when we have warmer days and we have winters and heating, obviously it doesn't suit them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142713	The answer of the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142714	I agree, Comrade Bull. So I worked at school for 20 years and some topics on the teaching council are totally prosaic but realistic among teachers and that is, there is therefore not enough funds for school chalk, for toilet paper, for sanitary and such things. So the school's enormous cost spends just on these things. So we're about to profit from one of these laws of energy schools, in order to have more money for those materials that students need, and not when the chalk comes to school, that teachers have to be robbed literally because they don't have any money, and that's just one of the benefits of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142715	The next individual debate is the respected representative Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142716	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing MOST's proposal for a law on self-supply of electricity from renewable energy sources. The law itself was addressed more than a year ago in May 2018, and it was only today that it came to the turn of first reading and would aim at using and directing Croatia into using our own resources, in fact to use in some way the position we have and to use that energy available to us from renewable energy sources, here I think of the sun. MOST is like a kind of definition, there are certain green policies that represent, and it is certainly reflected in sustainable development that has to be provided through self-supply, meaning individual households, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and also means sustainable development in general, because as they say to citizens, what is food to people, it is an energy economy. In order for our economy to develop, there were certain funds available from eu funds, I mainly think of energy efficiency in tourism, the competition was launched last year for only 76 million kuna and then in early January 2019 you raised that alocation to 220 million kuna, and since you are probably in the problem with human resources and in fact, with the processing of the claims itself you have come to that. It would have been much more useful if you had done it right away so that all those projects that have had an administratively successful assessment would have already started with the realisation itself. Because in order for our entrepreneurs to be more competitive and for tourism services to be competitive, they need to be cut down on the costs they have directly, which are daily, and these are certainly energy costs. As far as the industry's competitions are concerned, there was a competition in the 114 million kuna last year, which is of course an insufficient incentive for the Croatian economy because we know that entrepreneurs could apply to 350 thousand kuna up to 13 million kuna. If every entrepreneur asks for about 10 million kuna, it would come out that in the end only 14 entrepreneurs would get support without saying that some have asked for the full amount. Given that this proposal for a law on self-supply of electricity from renewable energy sources is aimed at increasing energy efficiency through the use of renewable energy sources and... greenhouse gases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It simply provides a legal framework that should respond to the problems facing households in Croatia. The proposal, this legislative proposal provides for an annual accounting, self-supply of households and the installation of 10 kilowatts, in such a way as to make sure how much energy the household consumes per year. Also, since I read regularly and that I care about the conditions in which citizens live because if something is not happening to you or to me right now, it doesn't mean that tomorrow won't happen. We simply need to be responsible for the citizens we represent, 10% of Croatian citizens are at risk of energy poverty, all reports by the Advocate General and to the answers of the Ministry of Demography, Youth, Family and Social Policy say 65,000 citizens, 221 users are compensations for the threatened buyer of energy. Also 39,000 403 citizens receive means assistance between 850 and 950 kuna per regional, or county and local self-government units. To these two measures, a total of 150 million kuna is spent, and they are simply uniform. They mean every year the problem of energy poverty is not solved. Both the attorney general and EU level say that each Member State should address the problem of energy poverty through a national strategy, simply these fees, which are one-off from month to month, from year to year, have failed to resolve and the number of users says so because they are not being reduced. So we still secure the same money, secure money from the budget, and that problem doesn't go down. It is this legislative framework, where you would allow this self-supply, where you would actually enable the transfer of electricity produced from solar to the network, that you could invest 37 million kuna for the same money to individuals who are in energy poverty and solve them forever. Also, this law provides for a stop shop where a framework is imposed because we know that all the days and entrepreneurs, when it comes to both EU funds and others, have certain deadlines, here it provides a deadline of 15 days for citizens who apply, its request to be resolved in a timely manner because time is very important. We are also aware of Croatia's weak position in terms of renewable energy and sun, which is also the contribution made by Prof. Dobrović, who calculated that only 14 photovoltaic kW per capita in Croatia, the EU averages 200 kW per capita, Slovenia has 10 times the size of this law, which we have only in our first reading today, is already in force for many years in Slovenia, and he has just ensured that the use of an additional renewable energy extract from the sun. Croatia also has different climates, one of them is safe and our islands, whenever we talk about islands, we talk about what subsidies we can provide them with and how. It would be much more useful for us to provide islands with islands and without subsidies, because today it pays off because the moment you teach production, means the excess electricity produced in the network, you don't have the need for batteries, and in many cases it's actually costing the investment itself, and solar panels themselves can be produced in the Republic, so it's not some high-tech, and in that way we can certainly provide an economic branch that would have the very application and also since it's small systems, there will be expression and local businesses, small craftsmen who can thus, the same solar panels and systems set up. This is a good law that would ensure the energy self-sufficiency of Croatian households, reduce their share of energy consumption and we know that according to the consumer basket 10% of these household costs goes to energy and would also like to ask again about the fund, you have reported in your presentation, in the presentation of the government's position, that the fund will provide certain subsidies related to the setting of solar systems on roofs, in which amount will be the range of co-financing itself, whether certain criteria of regionality mean that different regionalities are different, means that the intensity for areas with specific features in Croatia, such as mountainous areas, assisted areas or those islands. And I also ask you to explain once again to the Croatian public how, after 5 years, there is no energy restoration of houses since there is not one meaning of any administrative barrier for the competition to be opened but literally yesterday because the competition is planned for December 2018. And it was planned for the 6th month. In 2019 and certainly, it is the same way that would reduce the cost of households and families because citizens are waiting for this competition and why you use European funds badly and in such a way, and we have proposed and we have proposed this Law on Self-Energy from renewable sources of energy precisely to ensure the self-sufficiency of households and that in some ways we have one policy, a public policy facing green energy, renewable energy sources and that Croatia uses its resources and to make a turn towards sustainable development, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142717	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142718	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, very briefly, a lot has already been said in this law, but what I want to point out in my individual debate is how responsible authorities behave. So I've already mentioned an example of the Primorje-Gorski County which, some 10 years ago, purchased a building called Slogin-Kula, and in which it moved all its offices and departments that had been scattered throughout the city of Rijeka, so in several locations there were offices of the Primorje-Gorski County, we bought that building before 2009, and we started to rebuild it and reconstruct it, it is located in the center of Rijeka and it is 100% energy efficient, so other than this facade of the roof and everything it has, it produces itself all the energy needed for that building, from electricity, heating and everything, and that we don't say that we have all the departments and offices of the city placed in one place. He is currently implementing a series of programmes in collaboration with the Government, which is the energy efficiency of schools in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, where we are through façades, roofs, LED lighting going into the energy efficiency of rebuilding schools in our county, at the school in Cres we have collectors that will use hot water but should now upgrade this system and this model in a way that also uses the production of solar energy for electricity production, both in schools and in public institutions. What do we have in the state? We don't have a single state building that uses renewable energy sources in the country, but most of the ministries are in rented areas, so we don't have ministries in the state building either, these are rare exceptions, let alone energy efficiency, and so the responsible government should also work on this trail to show by example how energy is stored, how environmental protection is protected and how energy sources are restored. Why don't I believe when the government says we're going to question the competition at the end of the year, we're going to do this, we're going to do that, so here's another example about environmentals. Since 2016, the state has no longer financed the disposal of asbestos as a waste. So on the fund's pages, we're going to be reviewing a new competition to co-finance asbestos management when there's money, and that's what's been going on for 3 years, what we've got, we've got a bunch of asbestos waste forest, and it's a good project that this government has stopped, and we're going to say, and we're going to do it, and it's not going to happen for 3 years because these are the things that we're worried about, which is why mistrust in these things, when you're talking, the secretary of state, it's going to be at the end of the year, or it's going to be at the end of the year. However, once again we appeal to the Government to start speaking more specifically, i.e. by example, it starts to renovate energy and use renewable energy sources, but also to enable citizens to live on it and benefit from this nature. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142719	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the honourable representative of Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142720	Dear colleague Djujic. I'd just like to agree with you about this asbestos problem. In Split, which is the second largest city in Croatia, there is a huge problem on Brodarica, there are literally tenants present there. We also addressed the Environmental Protection Fund and themselves, and also to the City Council of Split and to provide for certain funds in the budget, but we simply did not get an answer to this proposal, or the amendment was not accepted as such. I agree with you, it's a major issue of human health and it's important to remove today what tomorrow will be dealt with as a consequence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142721	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142722	Well, that's right, and that's why I thought of it right now through this debate, but it's also an important and big problem to point out. So for three years, it hasn't been co-financed by the state. We in our coast, here in my county where I come from is still a large number of family houses that have roofs covered by asbestos, we have in Gorski kotar one, part of houses that are covered with asbestos plates that are still on objects and people's health is threatened, nature is threatened, and I'm not saying, those who come to money and go to rebuild these houses and rebuilding the roof, where then the asbestos ends, means, so far the state has paid it, and now people should still pay for it themselves because it falls under dangerous waste, and it will not be taken away by everyone and therefore should point to this problem constantly and that the state should return co-financing of asbestos management as dangerous waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142723	The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142724	Thank you very much. Comrade Djijic, you are absolutely right that the government should make all additional efforts to ensure the use of renewable energy sources. We have seen good examples of energy efficiency, cost cuts, not just for households, what you said, we should take a little more care that these costs are reduced both for state and public institutions. You've set some good examples in your county. I will mention in Zadar, Hello to the Sun, one of the largest possible attractions in the town of Zadar itself, but initially he should, among other things, not only as an attraction, but also serve as a small solar power plant that would actually light up the entire waterfront and thus reduce costs, etc. Unfortunately, from 2010 to today, we haven't done much on this trail. So in some situations, some projects only need to really make small efforts to protect the environment on the one hand, but also reduce the costs of cities, municipalities, households on the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142725	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142726	My fellow Glasovac, you set a good example, and that is, I mentioned the Green Knesset Project, which has the Israeli Parliament, which uses fully renewable energy for the entire energy of Parliament, from the electricity, everything, they have a record that shows how much electricity they saved, so even though these investments, or these programs may be expensive at first because they are sophisticated technology, they end up paying off very quickly, and later when you see how much savings you achieve, then you practically have a profit. So that the project in Zadar came into life nine years ago as it should, today it would pay far, far off the investment that would be in it, and therefore, especially today when we have stabilised finances, here, we have GDP growth, we like to boast that we have never better budget filling, today the wise responsible Government would target exactly the funds in this field of energy recovery and that we are essentially saving the environment, but that we are also making money on our energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142727	Thank you. Now, the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak again, this time finally on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I answered on behalf of the SDP Club, really very briefly. Encouraged by your observation that we have not read the good Rules of Procedure so that there can be no amendment to the first reading, we know well that in the Rules of Procedure there can be no amendment to the first reading of the law, but exactly the regular procedure in the first reading of each law is the remarks and proposals that the legislator then sees, accepts and adopts and second readings them in the final draft of the law. Now, that's what I want to point to again. So on this proposal the government colleague from MOST said, it's no good, that, that, that, that, that and that. This bill will implement, will lead to the instability of these and these, but has not made a single proposal, means that it is constructive, no proposal has given any way to eliminate these negativity that would potentially lead to such adoption of the law. But since the government has, in its explanation of the rejection of this proposal, cited what is in doubt and what is wrong with them, I believe that, until the second reading and colleagues from the Most, will study these proposals, the government's remarks, and give some new solutions to the final draft legislation that should fix it, and then, eventually, in the final proposal, we will discuss amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142729	Thank you very much, and now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Miro Bulj will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142730	Thank you very much. We're not here in large numbers, I see, across from me two colleagues and two colleagues and behind me is the vice president, so there's not much of us, but it's a significant bill, not what's from my club, but this law is essentially, this proposal has no alternative. It can only be done with a new additional proposal, on this proposal. So alternatives, something that is used by countries that have the same sunny number of days, Mediterranean countries, Italy, Greece and other countries, are 25 times more, are ecologically means, is clean, energy management, costing energy to our citizens and entrepreneurs, our citizens would be producing energy, microsolars on roofs up to 10 kW houses, buildings, businesses, kindergartens, schools, hospitals, other institutions, would bring down the payment of their own consumption bills but would be regulated by smart numbers. It's very important to mention ourselves here in this law and what we've been most saying and that's the problem of these poor families, energy this would be against energy poverty, so this bill would reduce the cost of the documentation by 8000 kuna, meaning 4 times, the administrative barriers would be removed, this is, this legal framework, so in this law, this law should draw out other sublegal acts and that's part of what the ministry should do, the annual accounting instead of the monthly, it means reducing the time of return of investments by 5 to 15%, allowing a larger... electricity consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I would say here that all the proposals we've heard, we should consider them, but I expect from fellow MPs because now this assembly is empty and it's a very important law, a year has stopped, and I expect that it will accept that we will go to another reading and that the government's proposals will have a constructive conversation with the promoters that this House will actually adopt and finally reach that we are at the bottom, we have the largest number of days of the Sun, we are at the top in the EU, and we are at the bottom at the use of microsolars. It's very important that the building, the construction works, means that it's moving, we have absolutely everything about the production itself, so every part as I said would be produced here, and I don't see any reason why we shouldn't build it, and it's very important that our energy power plants, our sunny days, fit into environmental policy, means it's very important for us here to stick to this part of environmental protection because these aren't harmful projects like this, which was supposed to be a thermal power plant in Peru, which was the largest drinking pool in Europe, which threatens the karst area, we energy, the sun and water must be protected, just before I was talking about water, there will be a professional gathering in Split tonight on the conservation of drinking water, but so it's important both energy and conservation, and water, mainly in these areas of energy, it must be ecologically important that it's been the environmental protection policy of sustainable development. I think we need to use this potential, I think we're already losing our drinking water potential with irresponsible, maybe not late, with irresponsible behavior, so in Split here, whenever a little rain falls, people don't have water for a few days. One big city, the entire Splitian pool has water except for this piece that's connected to Cetina, it's now being considered about Cetina, so we see that now in the elections it's come down to the prime minister that there's going to be some kind of pool that's going to solve some of the mud but can't solve all of the sloping pools that are being collected from the highway and the zina Dupolje so we're going to, we're not protecting what we have, we're kind of starting to lose some water, and the energy essentially in areas that are rich with it, so we're rich and the number of days of sunny days and why we don't take advantage of it. I don't see any reason why they don't have independent families, independent institutions, energy and that money instead of spending, save and invest in something else, that they have at least chalk and sponge in classrooms students and teachers, that we have radiologists, pediatricians, and not that women die in rows to perform an ultrasound examination of the breast or that our children don't have a pediatrician in the Dalmatian Zagora or that we don't have x-rays or anything like that. I think here's another one at the end I'd say I expect from the government. from the parliamentary representatives to support this proposal, to go to another reading, that we will discuss all these proposals that we have heard until the second reading, but we have not had many, and it will be embarrassing if fellow parliamentary deputies do not allow this bill which stood in the procedure for a year, and in fact the law which solves here I have said, a number of issues and any shortcomings because nothing is ideal, always better, we are willing to accept in the second reading or through the amendments to the Government or through the amendment clubs of MPs or colleagues in the Assembly, means we are willing to accept all this, but that finally in my Dalmatian burn people have the opportunity to survive in this area and not to buy wood, to settle in classrooms, and not to have salaries for institutions in the home of health, rather than to resolve this in this way so that this money which is paid through electricity, to raise the payments of other issues in other areas. So I expect, here I am as a proposer and I believe my colleagues, I believe the other colleagues now who are going to be the situation, and here I expect it to go in the first reading and to discuss this proposal in the second reading if it takes days. If necessary, feel free to take it, and you suggest it, so and that's not a problem, we'll say okay, here's a proposal that we had but here, the government took over and no problem, even if it's in the interest of the citizens, but as you push harmful projects, on Lečevica waste in the heart of the Dalmatian burn that will endanger drinking water and debris, I told them earlier that I had already announced that we need to protect this breach by law, so we need to legally edit microsolars in a way mainly because of what we have too many days of sunny. Here's to the end we'd just say gentlemen from the government, I expect, we've heard your remarks that weren't very constructive, everything you've said, we've been giving counterarguments, we've offered this solution, we've seen colleagues from the SDP say their position, colleagues from the HDZ on behalf of the club have gone but their position was the same, same as the government but I expect from all parliamentary representatives if this has anyone to offer to pass this out that this is a way out of the energy dependence of our citizens, and above all, this is also a demographic measure, by setting these microsolars, will increase the need for more jobs and without jobs, there is no survival of people mainly in Croatia, especially in areas of 2/3 of Croatia where people have already moved out. This is both an economic measure and an ecological measure and a social measure and a demographic measure and an economic measure and, most importantly, economic measures, because we have here, and jobs will be needed in this proposal, within the framework of this bill. Here you would be overjoyed and I believe that many citizens who expect a job and those who produce micro-solar parts and those who set up and our entire market would be satisfied because this cycle of sustainable development would finally start in the Republic of Croatia and I expect that from fellow parliamentary representatives that this will support even though there are only two MPs in front of me but I believe that this will come to all of us and we will take advantage of this possibility when it comes before the vote, we will find some way to invite all fellow MPs to support this and that it is time for Croatia to look ahead and to use our resources and potentials, not to know who we are, who knows whose interests we know, because we subsidise billions for who knows who and whose pockets. That's why again here is the end of you from the government I expect you to send a message to the MPs because they listen to you to support this proposal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142731	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work on Wednesday, 5 June at 9:30 and the first item will be the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy of the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and the applicant is the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, a pleasant weekend for you. SESSION Interrupted at 15.01 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-31-0.u142732	Proposal for a law on self-supply of electricity from renewable energy sources, first reading, P.Z. No. 360, the promoter is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on self-supply of electricity from renewable energy sources is not accepted, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 for, 11 abstentions and 13 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
