ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142966	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. In accordance with Article 226(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 12th session with 9 new points, and this proposal to supplement the agenda has been submitted to you by electronic means and in accordance with Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that all the points proposed by all 9 have been included in the agenda of the 12th session. We will now begin with the first law, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on freshwater fishing, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 515 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142967	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives, gentlemen, the main objective of this new Law on freshwater fisheries is to create quality and effective standards for carrying out sports and economic fishing on land waters and to carry out appropriate inspection controls on all participants. For this purpose, compared to the law that was made in 2001 and several times changed, they were completed at the beginning of the norm which refers to a better explanation and terminology related to inundation areas, flooded areas, hunting, etc. Also, one of the reasons why the need for a new law arose is the fact that aquaculture as an area was singled out from both sea and freshwater fisheries into a separate regulation published in the 2017 National No. 130, and there was a need for harmonisation with the new regulation in which aquaculture was united. Furthermore, although there is no overall common fisheries policy in the area of freshwater fisheries, it was taken into account the need to implement the provisions of EU acts, i.e. as regards ensuring traceability in transport and the transposition of market provisions relating to the regulation of the markets in freshwater fisheries. Such provisions are of Croatian national interest because they eliminate the black and grey market, ensure better consumer information and promote better competitiveness of freshwater fisheries. There was also a need to align the rules relating to the protection of nature and the water economy, or to align management plans with management plans in the area of the water economy, as well as with the procedures for impact assessment on the ecological network. Furthermore, this bill is fully in line with the Action Plan for Disposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Economy, since it abolished all of those administrative and cost obligations for participants that were possible and amounted to HRK 650,000. The decentralisation shall also be carried out in such a way that part of the authorisation relating to economic fisheries is transferred to authorised persons in units of regional self-government or county. One of the papers of the law is also the production of a fully electronic database on freshwater fisheries, which will enable the security purchase of licences, security charge and the security electronic distribution of revenues between the state budget, the Croatian Sports and Fisheries Union and the fishing plan's authorised rights. This will also make it easier to issue permits and improve traffic and better control, as well as to improve the development of fishing tourism. In this connection, more flexible financing of fishing rights holders adapted to their specific needs and management plans for each area shall be made possible. Furthermore, this law recognises the importance of a permanent monitor of the fish fund in land waters and regulates the human and technical standards for authorised scientific and research institutions that will carry out such monitors permanently and continuously, and introduces a specific category of fishing for public needs, for the needs of public aquariums, regulates the powers of fisheries inspection more precisely and believes that this law contributes to the objective of sustainable and responsible management of fisheries resources. Compared to the text of the law shown in the first reading on 25 January of this year at the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament, it should be pointed out that the relevant observations made by the Association for the Conservation of Traditional Fishing Lonjsko polje is also a public institution Nature Park Lonjsko polje and the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, which refers to traditional fishing. It should be said that it is impossible to classify the third category of fishing which would be traditional fishing because it is necessary to ensure traceability, therefore fishing is divided into economic or non-economic or basically sports and recreational, but we have classified traditional fishing as a group of tools that can be used to fish in economic fisheries on certain waters, and not in protected areas and special habitats, and we have managed to obtain and support the first applicants for such a proposal. The relevant comments are also related, pointed out here in the Croatian Parliament on the need for better definitions and induction and flood areas and are harmonised terms in Article 3. more precisely defined ways where fish can be fished in an induction area and where, in which part of the inundation area is possible and in which part of the induction area it is not possible to fish, in Article 40 of the Law. In addition, the comments in the Croatian Parliament were made in the first reading relating to the provision of reciprocity between fishing law holders in respect of the possibility of fishing for fish with different authorisation holders and, given one example from Vukovar-Srijem County, it was possible for the Minister to provide for the possibility of fishing opportunities for fishermen in fishing waters, fishing zones and fishing areas. Also, on the comments made in the Croatian Parliament, provisions have been incorporated into the law that that fishing rights officer who did not lose such fishing rights in his previous period have the right to the championship in the exercise of the power for the next period. Infringement provisions other than prescribed fines shall also impose safeguards for the temporary withdrawal of catches and fishery products, vessels, fishing gears and the like. At the end of the implementation of this law, it does not require, its implementation shall not require additional funds except in the section relating to the electronic database, electronic purchase applications, distribution of funds and collection. Such funds shall be provided at the position of the Ministry of Agriculture under the item relating to total information and for 2019 such funds for total information in marine and freshwater fisheries and aqua culture. The amount is 5.28 million kuna, in 2020 6.95 million kuna and in 2021, 7.45 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142968	Thank you very much. We've got quite a number of replicas, so let's take a turn. The first replica is the respected representative Josip Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142969	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with his associates. This Law adds to a number of new segments of freshwater fishing. Among other things, it regulates responsible management of the fish stock, regulates the fish and fish products market and more effectively collects catch data. It's the first time we've seen an appointment of a catch and pay system. And now I'm wondering if we're going to arrange the market with this system or if we're going to further strengthen and open the door to the black market and the gray economy as some associations say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142970	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142971	Thank you very much for asking. As for the system of catch and pay, he caused attention and certain... Croatian craft chambers that have been completely removed in talks and discussions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the contrary, we believe that the system of catches and payments known in many EU countries and some others will reduce the possibility of a black market, help fishing rights authorities to fulfil their obligations to transport and fish. And I would also like to point out that, for example, a fishing licence in Croatia costs 400 kuna and a license for sports fishing, for example, in neighbouring Slovenia and up to 3,000 euros. So it was really good to help the authorities and, on the other hand, develop sports fishing. In the talks, such remarks are with those who brought them first and removed them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142972	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142973	Thank you, Vice President. Honored State Secretary with Associates. Although I will also look a little more at this law later in an individual debate, I would like to point out that I believe that in one very satisfying way, the question of traditional fishing that we have been able to say is also a lot of controversy and stories. And, in fact, by setting out the traditional fishing gears and also the ways in which they are allowed to be, or where they should not be used, and by avoiding them from these protected areas, I think that in some ways all stakeholders are satisfied and we are going in the direction and protection of these protected areas and the reduction of fishing effort in these areas. And that's why I say one more commendation for that solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142974	The answer to a respected secretary of state. No need, thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142975	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, here, first of all, I am pleased that you have observed a lot of remarks and suggestions between the two readings, and first of all, here are our parliamentary representatives who we have spoken about and about traditional fishing. However, there are many more fishing associations that you have not considered, that is, it is likely to be considered and not accepted. One of those is the community of the Bjelovar Society of Sports and Fisheries where you didn't really appreciate some of the things that I think make absolutely sense. Well, I'm expressing such a little regret that you may not have appreciated them, these are fishermen who do it out of love for water and for fish. Well, I don't know if it's possible anymore, but there's a lot of objections, that's 11 points they've been objecting to, so if there's still a possibility and some really make sense, and it would be good for the fisheries in general to respect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142976	The answer to a respected secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142977	Thank you very much. We held a conversation with the representatives of officials from the area of Bjelovar-Bilogor County. Something we have, it will probably still show the course of the debate, we decided to respect. Part of the objection should not be settled by law but by sublaw and regulation. And part of the remark, if we have to go one by one, and part of the remark, was agreed in the interview and representatives of officials from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County were not exactly, there are more reasons for disrespect than respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142978	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142979	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, of course, that the tribune regulates the responsibilities and market for freshwater fishing, the way the licenses, the assignments, who is responsible for fishing, for stopping freshwater fishing. The question arises, however, what will happen to fishing when we do not protect drinking water? We are only in the karst area, in my Dalmatian Zagora, so in your Neretva, we have a problem polluting these rivers where drinking water, not only can we not drink, but people and drink and consume, unfortunately, the basic question of how to protect our drinking water, we did not do it in the Republic, in Slovenia we did it. Here's what Krka, the Krka River looks like and what affects it, here's what I'm going to show again, and can the fish, the distinguished minister, survive here? Here's before the National Park, before, I know that you're nervous, but this is a fact of how much [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] is protected [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] our drinking water and what will be [[Intruder: colleague Bulj!]] Not just with fishing, but the survival of people in the area. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142980	Comrade Bulj, please speak 15 seconds longer, don't do that, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142981	An apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142982	The answer to a respected secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142983	Although the issue comes out well from the Department of Agriculture, we certainly accept that we are all responsible for the protection of water in the Republic of Croatia, so I will just say briefly that we are cooperating and will continue to cooperate with the competent Ministry of Water Economy, respect every remark, and also in our operational programme for maritime and fisheries whose contract is 31.12.2016. It was 4% and consumption 2.5% and it wasn't accredited, and today it's accredited with a 55% contract and a 30% consumption, much of it applies to environmental and water protection, so I believe we'll make good use of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142984	Thank you very much. Before we continue, welcome to the gallery of students and students of the Agronomic School of Zagreb... They'll probably find the subject interesting, right out of their partial area. [[Applause]] The next replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142985	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, the State Secretary, the area of the Varazdin County is rich in water, through the Drava River, Bednja, Plitvica, Lonja, and with all this annual fish consumption is about 350 to 400t and 2kg per person, respectively. With all this wealth of water, only 25 to 30t fish and 5 to 7% are produced in the area of the Varazdin County, and I believe from this aspect that this is one economic branch to be worked on because the area for its growth is welcome, and it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142986	Here's the answer to the respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142987	Thank you very much for your observation, the question is more important in the Aquaculture, which today is governed by special regulations and for which it is secured only under one priority, 22% of the operational programme for maritime and fisheries that is being spent better and better. We are also together with the World Bank in the process of developing a new multi-annual National Development Plan for Aquaculture in the People's Period, also fighting for a better position and grants under the negotiations on a new fund regulation, and we hope that by means of such funds, we will encourage a new multi-annual development plan and concrete measures, in a better way and freshwater aquaculture through good trends that are taking place, in the aquaculture of the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142988	The next replicas of the esteemed, and the colleague of the bush, you are, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142989	So, Madam Vice President, people are sending me messages and I have to ask for a break and I pray this way and so, State Secretary Maria Vukkovic to react as a ministry, but the entire government and the Ministry, of course, protection of the environment, which is more in charge, is threatened not only by the fish fund, human health is at risk, agriculture in the Neretva Valley is at risk. In fact, wastewater purifiers in Mostar have found the poison propylene, what warns civil society associations that health and people working on these plants, but also the health of all the people of Mostar city, but also downriver, since Neretva is all coming to us, that people and this water soak their agricultural surfaces, are also said to be the number of people who have been sick in Mostar in the last few years on the rise, meaning when we talk about cancer and so on. the diseases, and we know that this is a major problem in the Neretva valley, and I think that this requires an urgent reaction from the government of the Republic of Croatia to the competent authorities in the Federation, to examine what is happening, means around these dumps from which these poisons are allegedly coming into the Neretva and to take urgent action to protect the lives of the people of the Neretva valley, of course I also think of our people in BiH, of our Croats who live there, but also of the people in the Neretva valley where I come from, I think this requires an urgent reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142990	Thank you, of course I'll give you a break, so I'll see you at 10.01. It's 9:00 P.M. It's after 10.05 hours. There's a colleague and a colleague, and we're running out of time, so we're gonna keep working, along with the replicas of a respected secretary of state. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142992	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the HS, dear secretary of state. In the first reading, as well as through the Committee on Agriculture, this traditional fishing extended, and you have now finally said that it will not be a special category, but that they will, as a way and form, actually refer to fishing management. As far as traditional fishing is concerned, it's actually about Kopački rit, it's about Lonjsko polje, but here, I'm stressing one part that's bound, for example, for the Imot area, for the area... And the Bacinian, for example, lakes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is said, again in the law, that the profession will determine the actual way, the availability of resources, as well as the very... What is specifically meant when it comes to the profession of the Ministry of Agriculture, the alliance itself, or the county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, just for clarification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142993	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142994	Thank you very much. Thus, the definition of traditional fishing as a group of skills, knowledge and tools used for many years in the Croatian people in the field of fishing does not, of course, refer only to the Lonjsko polje, the Lonjsko polje has encouraged. It refers to all areas where certain traditional fisheries are carried out, like, but now we're talking about tools. As regards the protection of the identification of fishing areas in which fishing can be fished, this is done on the basis of a permanent and continuous scientific monitoring that can be carried out by institutions for which human, material and technical conditions are prescribed, therefore, the scientific institutions do so on the basis of their research, continuous monitoring and management plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142995	The latest replica of Domagoj Mikulic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142996	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, this law really introduces measures to protect and restore the resources of freshwater eco-systems, all with the aim of sustainability and sport and economic fishing, but also the sustainability of the fish fund in the Republic of Croatia. But what I am interested in, since our freshwater fishing is largely taking place on the Sava, Drava and Danube rivers, I am interested in how they are arranged for the system in neighbouring countries, primarily in Serbia and BiH, which are not members of the EU, which are our control options and some joint actions, maintenance and sustainable exploitation of the fish fund, which is ultimately the basis of fishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142997	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142998	Thank you very much for asking. Well, it's about the area we have open border issues for. We are not able to complete the Ministry of Agriculture, given the circumstances, fully regulate such cooperation. However, we also work together in the framework of the cross-border programmes we implement, which relate to the protection of fish resources and work together at a scientific level. To this end, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Agriculture, the Fisheries Management, is currently implementing the first Twinning project, recognised as a good administration, the first Twinning project to transfer acquired knowledge precisely in this area towards the Republic of Serbia, let's say we hope that we will also be able to have a positive impact with such activities, and as far as the arrangements are concerned, these are countries that have not yet been obliged to regulate the acquis. We do it differently, more fully, we do more control and control. except that we are obliged to do it on our own, that is why we are now getting such recognitions and opportunities to transfer acquired knowledge. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u142999	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. So I'm opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143000	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Today, we have the Law on freshwater fishing in our second reading. A law that has proved a great need, and by equating aquaculture from the current law, as well as the inclusion of two EU regulations in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, has decided to move towards the creation of a legal basis, which aims to regulate the entire freshwater fisheries market in the Republic of Croatia. Since there is no common fisheries policy at EU level in freshwater fisheries, each Member State has been left with the possibility of self-organising the fisheries area according to its biological, hydrological, socioeconomic and other opportunities. This proposal for a law that today lies before us represents the modernisation of the existing law and adaptation to today's conditions and needs within this area. Amendments to the legal standards were necessary in order to create a more efficient system of sports and economic fishing on land waters, in order to regulate different interpretations and issues of fishing authorisation, such as hunting, waterway and induction belts and many others. It was necessary to enable the entire market to be controlled by what we are doing primarily through the control of catches that should affect the reduction of the black fish market, as well as the preservation of our natural resources. Rational and sustainable management and protection of the fish fund, ensuring sufficient supply of freshwater fish and those most important, which is the traceability of fish. This legislative solution highlights several examples of a positive contribution that will deliver such a legal proposal. Conformity with the rules on the protection of nature and the environment in the process of adopting an assessment of acceptability for the ecological network as well as the harmonisation of management plans with water economy plans. Also digitisation through electronic applications related to digital bases, in which we replace current paper registers, unscheduled delivery of data on fishing effort and retained catch in economic and sport fishing. When we talk about digitisation, there are also electronic fishing permits, security payments and allocations of funds which will definitely facilitate the purchase of licences, increase the number of arrivals of tourist fishermen, introduce clearer payment control and prevent financial malversions. Control is a field in which great efforts must be made, so it is good that the powers and fishing inspections as well as other supervised persons are more clearly regulated. This shall also be possible through decentralisation of activities related to the performance of economic fisheries and the position of counties that will later appoint authorised persons for inspection of fishing waters. The provisions for certain infringements shall be audited, comply with the applicable provisions of the infringement rules and, under this proposal, there shall also be significant financial penalties for temporary confiscation of catches, vessels, fishing gears, accessories and other objects which have been committed. It is important to stress that such a bill abolishes and certain administrative burdens, thus achieving significant savings, i.e. a discharge of €650,000 per year, which will no longer be a financial burden to participants of freshwater fisheries. I am pleased that certain remarks from the first reading have been respected and the introduction and definition of traditional fishing tools, equipment, techniques to preserve our cultural and ethnological heritage that serves us to promote rural areas and spread the tourist offer, but all of course within the framework of the benefits for economic fishing. The fish fund in land waters today truly represents a great potential and a very important natural resource, therefore its responsible and sustainable exploitation is necessary, and it is very important and targeted scientific control of the fish fund with greater human resources, but also the material efforts that this bill also regulates. Thanks to measures to protect, preserve and restore the resources of freshwater eco-systems with responsible behaviour and orderly system in the future, we can expect multiple benefits, greater return to rural development, the presence of scientifically correct fish on the market, and the monitoring of the overall process through ensuring the traceability of fish. Further to all the benefits of this proposal, the HDZ Club's freshwater fishing law will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143001	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP, on behalf of which the respected representative, Allen Prelec, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143002	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State with Associates, here as I was saying in the Replica first, I am pleased that you have respected some remarks primarily by fishermen, sports fishermen who I would say are in the main interest satisfied with this law, clearly that they will never be satisfied, you will never be able to respect all the remarks, but here in this sense commendation to you and your associates, but I also say that a little more consider the Society of the Sports Society of the Association Bjelovar, but in any case, we can say that this law, the law, is something to the extent of sports fishermen. Here, as far as I know and as far as I can tell, that's commendable. Whether it's to the extent of those economic fishermen or the economic sector, I don't think it is, but I'm even glad that it would be enough to comment on lobbying from economic fishermen, business fishermen who wanted to adapt it a little bit to their needs. Here, for that, any praise, but I'm gonna go with that maybe a little bit less beautiful stuff. The fact that there is low fish consumption in Croatia, we have great potential, we have sea, we have a continent where we have the possibilities of freshwater fishing, but this is really not enough but far from satisfactory fish consumption. About 8 kg of fish per capita is spent in Croatia, 8 kg is only 1 kg, these are data that I now have available but may be a little older that year, two, but 1 kg is a freshwater fish. I think it's too small. For the sake of comparison, Portugal has 55kg of fish per capita. So we can say that there really is great potential here, above all economic potential. And I'm not going to talk about how the fish is healthy right now, because I think every one of you here knows that, but that such a big difference between Croatia and Portugal means 8 kg of fish per capita versus 55 kg of Portugal is something that is worrying, and we have the sea, and we probably have more potential for this freshwater this fish farming than Portugal. But here, there is much more to be done, and that is why here is the ministry that should give further incentive on this, and with the headline that we are a member of the EU, that we have many funding models available through the European Funds and I think that there should be absolutely more to be taken by the ministry in order for these economic fishermen to be anything more, clearly under certain conditions of control. But here, I have another piece of information that I printed on the Internet and saw that trend in 2015. 2016. surface area of the pond in exploitation. In 2015 there were 9,917 hectares, and in 2016 10,309 means that's one part of the increase. He had more ponds in exploitation from 2015 to 2016 so the trend is 104, and now look at this, we're just looking at carps. In 2015, the production of carp was 3,400 tonnes and 2016. 2,698, reverse. What does that tell us? We've got more ponds and less fish. Now, we can figure out what that's about, whether it's a black market, whether it's something we should be worried about. Well, then maybe our Croats don't eat so little fish but maybe buy fish on the black market. Like there's a state that has to prevent that kind of thing. But, well, we're not going to be critical, just here's where I really do work and I'm trying to be an agent that points to things that aren't good, and I suggest what I think would be better. So here, I'm going to talk a few words about here's the cause of negative movements. First of all, these are high water economic benefits. Which is why, here, fishermen say they can no longer produce fish, outstanding questions about the compensation of fish birds, the outstanding issue of agricultural land. First of all, all of us who work in local self-government know how much this is a problem with agricultural land, so in this case also freshwater clear surfaces of water, but also in general agricultural land, incentives in freshwater fisheries that are reduced, well, many years ago, but more care should be taken of. I don't know. That's how I get in here, but okay. Okay, I won't get settled. [[I think it's upstairs with a gallery someone.]] Natural economic potential. Croatia has, above all, a long tradition of fishing, built infrastructure, large areas of ponds arranged and abandoned, landscaped and ornithological value of carpal ponds, the genetic potential of freshwater fish, staff and knowledge. Croatia is really rich with regard to both personnel and knowledge, and it is definitely standing in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The organisation of fishing companies, food consumption, thermal farming, here's a good example of 100% domestic raw materials. The well-known quality of Croatian farmed fish. Now all I can do is put a parallel with a sea fish as big as the Croatian tuna. And here's our celebrated general, appreciated in Japan and in export. These are all the potentials I think Croatia is using and should take more care of. Analysis of the freshwater aqua culture sector, more benefits. The tradition of farming and cooperation between industry and science, the production of high food value, the high natural value of semi-intense waterwater ponds, the information system in fisheries, the possibility of lasting supply of the market with a uniform quantity and quality of products has been established. All of these are advantages that domestic fish producers should benefit, not benefit. What are the odds? Extremely favourable environmental conditions and water quality, availability of areas for cultivation, cultivation of new species and the development of new products and technologies, and integration with the processing sector. He's got plenty of opportunities, he's got a lot of advantages, but he's got weaknesses. Weaknesses are unfortunately outdated breeding technology. This is evident in Croatia today, and it needs to be fixed. I replied before that it should be clearly repaired, perhaps with the EU's resources at our disposal, the ministry boasts that there are a lot of allocated resources, I would say whether, can we be satisfied with that, I don't think we should still be working on really helping every economic fisherman to make that fisheries really in the upward path because I just think we have great potential. Croatia has the potential to grow freshwater fishermen, it is necessary to resolve the status of agricultural land used in aquaculture, the legal status of ponds, and the problem of water fees that even has 8. Croatian freshwater fisheries remembers unfortunately better days. On the days when the annual production in fish ponds mostly reached the number of 16 thousand tonnes of freshwater fish and exports were not known, the concept was also quite feasible and acceptable for almost a third of the production. But unfortunately, as you did, and in many of our other sectors, this situation did not last long, these are slightly older data from 2013, and in the '14s it recorded a production of 3235 tonnes. So from 16 thousand tons to 3235 tons, which is the 23% drop compared to the year 2012. You may have the data clearly newer today, but in any case, I don't think we can be happy with this kind of production because I'm saying from the previous 16 thousand tons today it's very, very modest. Croatia certainly has the potential to grow in the freshwater fisheries sector, primarily a country that has achieved the export of freshwater fish with the necessary resources, whether it is a repromaterial, water, experts and a reverse tradition that brings experience and knowledge but also has those who like to hunt in a blur. That's what I was saying, we're trending more and more ponds and we're producing less fish. Malversions in freshwater fish farming in Croatia where production has been unrealized over the past few years have been misused by incentivising means, leaving a negative mark on Croatian freshwater fisheries. And now I will recite Mr. Christmas, Chairman of the Committee for freshwater farming of the HGK fish and the director and owner of the Poljan fisheries, says: Individually the largest pond towards breeding areas and production, as the Voice says... He pointed out that the HGK Fisheries Association and the HGK Committee for freshwater fisheries has been working intensively for 15 years to remove the many difficulties that burden this production and is soon expecting concrete results and adding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the production of freshwater fish has been drastically reduced it will certainly rise in the coming years,... so they won't be able to have the desired dynamics because the cycle of production from younger to consumer fish lasts for 3 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will happen on condition that the status of agricultural land used by aquaculture entrepreneurs as well as the legal status of ponds because entrepreneurs do not want to invest in something that is not owned or owned by them and still an unresolved problem with fees and for water that even... which has no other state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what a man says, we say that we have potential, but as in everything else, we need to listen more to people who are in practice, more people who are involved and perhaps less listen to bureaucrats in an office that, with a view over Windows, can only see what fish and aquaculture are, clearly, it doesn't work out for those who do their jobs and that make a significant contribution to the development of aquaculture and agriculture at all. I wouldn't owe more to this, here's just another little digression, says one fisherman from Darda, the president of the Baranja Association says about his eating habit, says that his family eats between 30 and 50 kg of freshwater fish annually, so that's almost above average, the highest average in Portugal, but that's because he's a fisherman, because he's a sports fisherman, catches a lot of fish, and then his family eats healthy. I hope not only that the family of sports fishermen or those at sea will eat fish but that the fish will be available to everyone in Croatia, just for example in Slavonia, and here I had one information, says that Slavons pay for expensive fish, that it is already more than 45 kn for Easter, as regards carps and the richest in Slavonia are in freshwater waters, and it goes up to 45 kn which is much, much more than it should be, and here I hope that not only the families of those who fish, eat healthy fish, but also all those who will be able to do so. I am also talking about freshwater fish and sea fish, so here, in this sense, I would like Croatia to take a significant step in this regard and that Croatians eat more fish, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143003	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143004	Thank you, well-respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretaries with their associates. Here's what we're talking about is one big resource, i.e. about fishing, in this case freshwater fishing, and I think this is what is proposed and now in the second reading that the regulation of this and the responsibilities and management of this essential resource is good and that in this way should be regulated with all constructive remarks which the Ministry and accepted and accepted, they have also harmonised others who are sporting and all others who were interested in taking part in the debate, and I think that Croatia is a country and we all know it is rich in this potential, now how much we use it and what it has conditioned us not to use maximum and sports fishing as a tourist promotion and economic-economic sweet fish, which is now economic, i.e. through the economy, there are reasons that have acted as examples since the Homeland War, we need to know that the area of the Republic of Croatia was occupied, that it was certainly not able to control this area and that there was fishing that was not in accordance with the law, there were plenty of mine-explosive resources, everything that could not be controlled in one uncontrollable area, so any positive shift and the development of freshwater fishing is good because we have all the possibilities, potentials and for further development. And that is why absolutely why any change should be supported for the better, and I believe that the time has come for this part and this potential to be used to the maximum good, which means freshwater fishing, and that we finally have the courage and courage to see what is the key problem with this legislation, with everything that happens and potentials, is preserving drinking water. It is a key problem at all that this law would be long-term if we did not have drinking water preserved and ecologically, the ecosystem preserved, means that we will be in trouble because the fish will not be able to survive in this area and we simply will not be able to manage this resource, not only with the fish fund but with drinking water as the most important life, so water is one life, without water no life, Croatia is rich with this, and that is why I would point out here by what is a key problem and what I consider a key problem, what I have emphasized is that any harmful project in the karst area, in the area where drinking waters are and we need to see other countries that are neighbouring to us. Slovenia has protected drinking water, i.e. Water, rivers, streams from spring to mouth, means by law protected and also karst areas, however, we do not treat ourselves that way. So with all this good that we have in this law, with all that is the incentive, with all that we can develop, because when we mention only sports fishing then we don't talk about sports fishing that only there will be hunters who will be traditional fishing than that is a tourist offer, we need to know that there is a number, that it's a good offer along with what we have in the Adriatic, which we have everything that sport fishing with hunting and other things, one content that gives extra value, and we need to do everything to preserve drinking water. I think that we should speak here in Parliament as representatives and executive authority but here this is not a question of now neither the HDZ nor the SDP or the MOST, and I don't know which coalitions, this is the question of the survival of the people in this area and the development of these areas. I just have to point out a few things that threaten the fish fund. It's pollution of rivers and streams of these rivers. It is unimaginable that today we have a Krka river that affects the National Park, Krka, that it is a pollution that the river is influenced by an oil waste product, oil, oil. It is inconceivable that in the Adriatic, in the river Cetina, we have pits that come from the highway of antifreeze, oil that is from the road, to influence directly in the river Jadro, not only there will be no fish, but we see that for more, on more than one occasion, there is no water in the water line, not used by the Splits, but they have to buy water in the bottles in shops, let alone fish. So, we, in order to implement this law, to be with all progress, with everything that has been promoted by this law, I will repeat responsibility, whoever is responsible, who manages this area, the permits, the monatorium, the hunts, everything that is in this area the triba law regulate and accept it. If anyone has better suggestions, make a suggestion. I have no doubt the Ministry will accept that. But the problem is drinking water, I repeat again, and the karst area. I can't imagine that in the heart of Krka to Neretva, a colleague of Grmoja mentioned the problem of Neretva, the problem of the poisons that occurred in Neretva, and we see an increase in the number of tumors in the area, both in Mostar in the part of Herzegovina and in the Neretva region. Is this the exact cause, and it is likely that the water that we consume all of them, has appeared more frequent and an increase of 500 percent is even mentioned that in recent years there has been an increase in the number of tumours and these carcinogenic diseases. Also when we look at this area where I come from, here I'm looking from Zrmanja to Neretva, so we're going to say this area of the Dalmatian Zagora, Skradin, Straight Wheels, absolutely no one in this area protects water, and water is the greatest wealth. I cannot believe that the Waste Management Centre will be at the heart of the karst area in Lečevica and object, even the Sibenik-Knin County where the ruling party is in power. So this is not a political issue, this is a question of the survival of the people in the area, because we will not have the opportunity to live at all in that area, and the only thing we have and what is wealth is our wealth. Which is why, when we see what's wrong with Marinščina, it's going to be the same, so the Waste Management Centre, we see what's going on, we see that they didn't have proper environmental permits and now they want to do it on Lečevica, and we know what the potential is, both Neretva and Cetina and Krka and the tributaries of its and Zrmanja, it's a huge potential for freshwater fishing. That's why while we're at it. The Ministry of Protection and the Environment is one that will protect the environment, not that people in this area must be organised to protect the environment and drinking water from the Ministry of the Environment. Unfortunately, I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture has an impact there, too, but it can point to certain things that affect the production of fish stocks, flora and fauna that will affect such behaviour in nature, too, is unimaginable for me that in Plitvice Lakes we do not have a system of sewerage, but we have pits that are sprawling or sewerage going directly into these areas of karst, and we have a national park that is a tourist brand. So we have a huge problem in the whole area preserving drinking water. All the laws we make that the best, all EU directives, all the best laws, if we don't preserve drinking water, absolutely these laws are non-primes, they are inapplicable. And water needs to be talked about, but if we give the people, we charge the VAT on the water, which would cut the VAT on the water, there is no freshwater economy of gentlemen without preserving drinking water. I repeat, Slovenia has passed the Law on the Protection of Water from Privrts, from source to mouth, the Protection of Breaks, and in us, the trash can is a karst area, a garbage can, and what kind of legislation are we going to talk about? I commended the law in certain parts, but I see that it went through the procedure, that the proposals made by both associations and individuals were respected, probably, there would be a tribal of some more changes, see that you can't appreciate everything and will never be satisfied, however, this law is a bers-by-tre-ban. If this is the Krka River, here, the Honorable Secretary of State, Vice President HS, if this goes to the Krka River and this is not funny, this is sad, this is sad that this goes to the Krka River, before the Krka River, which is very important for the survival of people in the area. I repeat this once again, I'm just waiting for the Minister of Protection and the Environment to come here and look at what's affecting and what the Krka River looks like and, of course, the fish can't survive here, freshwater. So we must all colleagues not on this to me now, but this is a fact, people have called me, I live in that area, and this affects the Krka River. If we are going to protect the fish fund, flora and fauna, the eco system, then we must protect and drink water is all these laws, we can do artificial economic lakes or I don't know what we're going to keep colorful, this, however, to maintain sports fishing, traditional fishing, tourist fishing, anything that gives extra value we can't be this river Krka, to influence. We must not allow this to be done to protect flora and fauna and fish funds, of course, because it is the Fish Act because we simply lose that potential, the potential battle for the survival of people in that area. We say that instead of seeing on gas stations, a liter of water is more expensive than a liter of oil, you can take a liter of water and you'll see, and we have clean, clear water, I'll talk, here I'll remember my Cetina, its well, and you'll see who wasn't going to see what the wealth is, which unfortunately we're giving in concession to foreign companies and that they're exploiting it, and they're selling it to us at a price more expensive than a liter of oil, and we have resources and potentials to otherwise treat drinking water and eco-flora, because of the ecological system of flora and fauna inside, because of the survival of the people in that area, and that this law that we have now which we have, which we can move to implement it if this river is ours and if we build can be able to postpone it. to be a karst area of waste disposal cans then we simply won't be able to implement this law, we won't be able to have any additional value, we won't have an additional value for the rural economy that can offer sports fishing and traditional fishing as well, and there we have this additional value, whole tourism. For this reason, I once again emphasise to us MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, all citizens, eco activists who live that it is high time to protect the eco system. We can do it through the law, I also said that not the triba be a lot of hot water to invent, that Slovenia did not do it far, the law on the violation, the protection of misdemeanors and the law on the protection of drinking water from spring to mouth. And that leaves us with the greatest potential, which is drinking water, if we already have the sea, we have the meaning of fish in our Adriatic Sea, we have not had the strength and courage to declare an exclusive economic belt, I believe there will come a time when we will do so and we will have the application and protect our fish fund, our flora and fauna that do whatever foreign ships want us to do, and environmental pollution it, I believe there will be strength for the survival of the people in that area, that we will protect our cross and drinking water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143005	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143006	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with associates, are here on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats a few words and on the Law on freshwater fishing, on the final proposal of this law. With this law, the proposer and the competent ministry want first and foremost to bring our legislation into line with EU laws and regulations, and the urgency is also to regulate the market in freshwater fisheries. We at HSS also believe that this law is necessary and mentioned in some parts, care about environmental protection, nature protection and certainly protection of biodiversity in the Republic of Croatia because the fact is that some species of fish are slowly disappearing from our water streams. First of all, congratulations should be given to all those involved in any sport fishing, whether fishing through their fishing associations because they are nature keepers in their own way. They love nature, come out in nature, and it's not their first instinct just to catch fish for consumption, but to stay in nature, enjoy nature, cricket birds and a beautiful environment along streams and rivers. Well, in order for that to be the case, we all have to worry about those who aren't fishermen to stay clean. The question is who has clouded this water in Krka, it is a question of dangers that certain possible incidents can also destroy the fish fund in some rivers and streams, and we have certain black spots. We have talked from HSS several times about the problem of waste disposal in the Municipality of Davor which is not 2 km from the Sava River, with large lateral canals and where there is a real danger of overfishing and translucent waters to pollute this water flow and create an incident, an eco incident and then threaten the supply of drinking water because it is there and near the water supply site from which more than 60,000 inhabitants get drinking water. A similar problem is Piškornica near Koprivnica, where already there the chief and certain people say, especially from HSS that it is a potential bomb because it has been done by analysis of the translucent water and has already seen an increased percentage of heavy metals in those waterways that are parallel to the Pištarnica pouring into Drava and that is a fact. Therefore, it should be reiterated and requested that the competent authorities of the state and inspection determine the real situation and protect these fishing waters from pollution. And once again, congratulations to all fishermen and sports and amateurs, volunteers who are involved in nature and water protection on what they do every day and have just pointed to these problems, and there are certainly more in Croatia. When it comes to aquaculture, freshwater fishing, as mentioned here, we unfortunately have great potential in Croatia, but we consume a little freshwater fish. General fish Croats eat little and sure there is potential through the development of aquaculture and help this part of the economy develop. I would mention that I have already protested here which is later from the damage caused by fish birds in 2015/2016. were not paid to our pond owners and that they suffered economic damage. I'm glad it's fixed now and that in these future periods they'll still get compensation for the damages of fish birds, but these two three years they haven't received, no one can make it up to them and should say that it's why they certainly stopped developing, in investments, and maybe they couldn't even raise their salaries to the workers, and they wanted to. It is therefore important to disburse this part of aquaculture as part of the economy and agriculture because 8 different water charges have already been mentioned, the problem of unresolved agricultural land and certainly allow them to support their development projects, primarily the processing and placement of fish on the market, then it would be a real competition because they do not currently have sufficient own resources for development, and then there is a traceability that our customer knows whether he bought carp and catfish from Croatia or from China or some other country to which he is imported and it seems that there are still large imports of fish and fish processing of the Republic of Croatia and that we have not designed models to increase the protection of domestic production and visibility of its and thus enable our customers to always choose the carp or catfish produced in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I want to congratulate here on all the sport fishing alliances which, based on the economic water management plan, are doing this job correctly and many fishermen are satisfied with how this works. I would like to congratulate sports fishermen who both in Croatia and outside Croatia promote Croatia and achieve excellent results. However, I must point out here a problem that has been warned by the sports fishing alliances, as well as the craft chamber where it is through the catch model, so it pays to create space by them that part of that fish will be found on the gray or black market in the Republic of Croatia. It's a newspaper that hasn't been so far, that a sports fisherman can take some of the fish caught and take and put on the market, and that's where they see the problem, and they've also proposed amendments, the Chamber of Commerce to make it clear that there's no unfair competition or gray or black market, and I think the ministry has missed and that part to edit how the Chamber of crafts suggested it. It is also an objection by fishing associations and sports fishing alliances related to the right to purchase fishing licences because in art. The 21st century 4 states that any legal and natural person, Croatian citizen or foreign citizen can buy a daily or monthly permit and fish on our waterways and ponds without having passed a fishing exam. Then it is right to ask why there is at all a fishing exam and why our fishermen must then be a member of the sports association and alliance, if anyone can come, buy a license and hunt. I understand that in this way we want to encourage more citizens to go into nature, to deal with fishing, to encourage in this way continental tourism, but I think that this objection is correct by sport fishing associations, fishing associations and crafts chambers, which have brought this out because in other segments, here is an example, you cannot go hunting unless you have passed a hunting test and if you are not a member of at least the Croatian Hunting Union. I don't know why that was put on, but I'd like the State Secretary to explain that in the final address because of all those fishermen asking that question. Also when it comes to economic fishing, I have to point out the problems, which I have already pointed out on the Committee on Agriculture, people living by the Sava River because I come from that area, Orubica, Davor, Kobaš and downstream where a large part of them, say 50, were in Orubica and Davor, fishermen who were craftsmen and had economic fishing, are now not. There is one or none more who has registered crafts and economic fishing, engaged in economic fishing, and many of these would like to. So I asked the Committee on Agriculture whether there was a model and whether it was enough to talk to interested people to figure out a model of how to enable them to pay some kind of cobwebs and continue to deal with economic fisheries and to put that fish that they catch legally on the market because we wake up completely open, probably they go away today and throw away or the net or do and catch and that's on the black market, and it shouldn't be, and they don't want to be outside the law, but they want it to be better arranged, that they are financially allowed to do so, to be afforded. Because if he has to by all regulations, he has to have d.o.o. or crafts and pay all the commitments, there are not so many catches, there are not so many markets that it could pay all the commitments and live on it, and unfortunately then either they stopped doing it either on black or they moved away, and our intensity from HSS to keep people living by the river and to live with the river and to keep those water streams as they have all these years so far. One of the comments was also from sports fishing associations on inspections and inspection controls. The fishing inspection remained in the ministry, but with a fishing inspection, they will now be able to be monitored by the MUP, the Port Captain, and I don't know what else, so here was the proposal to make it more precise, to know who and how it works, so it remained unclear in the law. Also, when it comes to infringement provisions in Art. From 71-80 where the objection is to the height of the sentence. The fines range from 30 to 50 thousand kuna and go to the responsible person in the sport fishing association and alliances and the physical person and simply in this way will deter people from dealing with this activity and because of these penalties they give up fishing and membership in associations and the management of certain associations, so the answer was on the board that these penalties are lower than in the EU and that this is not so inappropriate. So take the personal incomes of these people in Croatia, Slavonia, Podravina, Baranja and see if these penalties are appropriate. We think from the HSS that they are inadequately high and should have gone with lower sentences, and especially because there is one absurdity, that there is a greater penalty for those who have the power to fish, have a license, go with their boat to hunt, fish, forget the license, there is a greater penalty for him than for those who are caught in illegal fishing. I think that was supposed to be fixed and more precise, not that we had such irregularities on the ground. Here, I welcome the intensities to make a quality move in freshwater fishing, to regulate the market, to have traceability, to have our customers know what they are buying, but here, I appeal to all of us to deal with these problems that I have highlighted in the protection of water from pollution, it is not only the business of the Ministry of Agriculture, there is also the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Economy, and it is certainly good that we help sport fishing associations and alliances to stay working and thus manage this important economic resource of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143007	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Tomislav Lipoščak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143008	Thank you, Vice President. Honored State Secretary with Associates. Here, once again, at the very beginning of the commendation of both the Ministry and the Secretary of State and, of course, the Fisheries Administration and the Department of freshwater fishing. Why am I saying this? Just because the co-operation itself in the adoption of this law was really good, and if all the ministries were this open to cooperation and suggestions, I don't think we would have any problems in this House either as representatives or you as legislators. Among the two of these readings of the legislative proposals, I held several meetings with the leadership of the Croatian Sports Fishing Union and finally, we held a joint meeting at the Ministry of Fisheries and our suggestions and remarks were mainly related to that part of sports fishing, and I believe that in that part, if I am not mistaken, 6 articles have been amended and we have taken one step forward towards improvement. We have further explained and defined certain concepts and situations that have been observed in practice or not well defined enough, or that they have been interpreted differently or abused in practice. Similarly, the advantage of a public tender for the award of fishing rights to non-sustainable fishing rights has been secured, and I consider this a very positive provision, especially because of the fear of individual authorisation, as we could hear in the tour of the terrain which, we can say, were afraid of certain privatisations of water, and thus, in fact, by this legal provision, this possibility has been removed. Likewise, and in the case of a high-level merger, this advantage remains, which I think is equally very important. I would also like to thank you for the acknowledged suggestion that in the event of the declaration of elemental accidents, an audit can be accessed, and it does not have to be as it was in the first legislative proposal in the first reading. This actually avoids unnecessary costs for many fishing societies in cases where natural disasters do not cause a situation that significantly changes the situation on the ground. I will mention an example from my Ogulin and our Good River, which is extremely lush, and very often we are exposed to elemental disasters, but the stream trout that is there indigenous to these situations in most cases, that is to say, remains at its primary, or original habitat. Furthermore, the opening of the possibility that the funding from the fishing licence fee could also be used for education allowed the authorisation holders to actually carry out a series of activities for which they were suspended according to the first proposal. However, these are all topics that we have already discussed and in the first reading and now, I would not like to be overly repeated, but after the debate in the first reading, I must admit that I have been very surprised by the reactions and the number of people, fishermen, fishermen and the associations themselves who contacted me, and obviously that it is a great interest for this topic, but also for this legislative proposal and in the talks, on the one hand with representatives of the alliance, I can say that they are very well addressed to the very problem and improvements that this law makes. However, contact with the fishermen themselves gives the impression that they are very weak or almost uninformed in general on legal proposals, let alone about amendments to this law or additions. Between these two readings, if I'm not mistaken, were held, so is the calendar somehow coming, most of the congregations of the fish, associations, and I hope that the leadership of the association has made it possible for membership to see this law itself and the changes it brings. Similarly, there have been many questions due to changes in the allocation of fishing licence revenue and concerns as to whether the prices will be changed, the total price of the fishing licence, or whether they will grow. We know that we can say that, so-called. the total price consists of that prescribed fee, which is redistributed to the alliance, the Republic of Croatia's budget and the authorising officer in proportion to 40:40:20 and of the part of which is the amount, in fact which determines the self-authorisation of the fishing law for the purposes of fishing, fishing services and other needs of the companies or associations. What's important and I think it's important to stress that it wouldn't be created, I won't say panic, but it's kind of worried that nothing important changes in nature and there's no reason for the price of annual licenses to grow. After all, it concerned many, but it was confirmed by the State Secretary in the final address after the first reading. What is evident from all these conversations and contacts on the ground and with fishermen and associations, which is one thing that we actually have in the field a very colorful practice of management of societies, a colourful practice of water management, and I will repeat what I said earlier that part of the company or part of the authorisation holder does not communicate enough with its membership which is not familiar with the basic provisions of the laws that we very often take and for granted. It has also been observed that certain authorities do not manage responsibly with water, or that they are responsible only for the work of water, there are waters in which much is invested, which are primary and that on the other hand we have waters that are either left to ourselves or to the enthusiasm of individuals. These are things that we definitely need to change in the future and which, of course, are not about the promoters or the ministries, but actually about the relations within the societies themselves in relation to the relations between society leadership and their membership. What is to the ministry and whose position I will fully repeat is to address the problems and categories of traditional fishing, this law allows us to use traditional fishing gears but only outside protected areas of nature in which it tends to reduce fishing effort, which is very often mentioned in the law clearly prescribed and, of course, in the context of economic fishing. It is evident that this law goes in the direction of improvement, the legislative regulation could actually tell us that I would dare say one of the better if not the best in the countries in the environment and very often we are witnessing that some other countries are actually following the trail of our solutions and we can actually say that they are copying them and it is up to us that this law that I consider very good, and on the ground we are working on as well as possible its implementation, and finally here is another final, thank you and the Ministry of Cooperation, for respecting and most suggestions and suggestions, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143009	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Josip Križanić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143010	I would like to thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the State Secretary with my associates, for once again welcoming you, as well as all fellow MPs present. So we've waited a long time for this law, you've said since 2001 precisely because of a lot of conflicting public attitudes but also different interests and economic and sports fishermen and it's good that we've got a final solution that's now ahead of us. I, as well as my colleague Lipoščak, believe that through a public debate but also through various workshops and meetings with fishermen as well as the interested public, a good law has been drawn up in which the legislator tried to bring the views and interests of stakeholders between the two readings. Many of the comments of the Committee on Agriculture and the various associations I spoke about before have also been respected, and thus the Law on the conduct of sports and commercial economic fishing has been proposed for the accumulated waters and the inspection supervision of the united. There is also an opportunity to promote traditional values and solutions that allow the use of traditional tools without disrupting the regulation that regulates protected areas, we have talked a lot about and thank you for being respected. Therefore, it is certain that this traditional fishing cannot be prescribed by law as a third category with economic and sportal but exclusively as a form and manner and techniques in the context of economic fishing with traditional gears, equipment and vessels in fishing zones and which will later be prescribed by the Minister. A clearer definition of the flooded and induction area, and we have discussed it a lot, which is exactly the inundation area, which is laughing here, which is a well-defined restriction, permission or prohibition of fishing, and this law also provides for and simpler sales of licences through an electronic application that will be formed by the legislator very soon after the entry into force of the law. The law also aims at administrative discharge of fishermen except for the fishing rights authorities and the management of resources and monitoring. In addition to fishing inspectors, the training of inspectors is envisaged and the training of inspectors and the cooperation of other authorities of the state administration is envisaged. I listened carefully and to my colleague Vlaovic, wrote inspection and direct surveillance and then counted which inspections are responsible, so we have fishing inspections, officers who have been authorised by the minister, internal affairs, internal navigation, customs, veterinary inspection, so it is very clear that each of these inspections performs the tasks within the authority of their affairs that are entrusted to them by definition. This also ensures traceability and better information for consumers and the visibility of Croatian freshwater fish, the system of traceability of first sales of tool markings and bar codes, simplified the process of expanding fishing rights and within the fishing zone for which the authorisation holder has already obtained fishing rights, covering all fishing waters within the administrative borders, the city, municipalities and counties. A fishing law officer may also conclude a reciprocity agreement with another fishing law officer if there is an interest in this. In order to simplify the procedure but also direct administration but to trace the wish of the Ministry with which we have communicated, which has applied the proposals and suggestions of the associations and the public and we have proposed one amendment in Article 29(10), new paragraphs 11 and 12, which reads as follows: Paragraph 11 of this Article is not obliged to draw up a new management plan after the expiry of the fishing law contract. And paragraph 12. Exceptional from the provision of paragraph 5 of this Article, if, after the expiry of the fishing law award contract, the same fishing authorisation holder again... the fishing law of the audit and the addition of the management plan shall be valid until the date on which the last consent of the ministry is issued. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in a situation where the fishing law officer, after the expiry of the fishing law contract which he consumed in the re-public tender, is entitled to fishing rights for the same fishing zone for which he previously developed a management plan, the former economic basis does not have to oblige him to re-order the whole management plan with all elements which can be financially unnecessaryly burdened. Also, since he submitted a revision of the economic base for the duration of the previous contract every 6 years, the management plan for the Ministry's confirmation is correct if the former economic basis for the former management plan is valid for him and after the signing of the new contract until the date on which the last consent was issued. In particular, if a fishing law award contract expires in 2023 and the latest audit is confirmed in 2021. In the event of a new fishing right through a public tender in 2023, the management plan will continue to apply to it, i.e. the economic basis from the previous cycle of fishing law and the revision will be worth 6 years from the date of confirmation, the issuing of consent, so until 2027. Finally, the proposed law is good, enables responsible and sustainable exploitation of fish stocks within land fishing waters and will contribute to the development of rural areas through fishing tourism and the supply of healthy food. And of course I'll support it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143011	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Angelko's uncle's turn. ... Oh, no? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I'm sorry, we have one, yes, yes, sorry, sorry, I saw her. Mr. Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143012	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Krizanić, in the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of the Ministry and other central bodies, has been prescribed by the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out inspection tasks in the field of fisheries. This law also provides for other state authorities to carry out direct supervision when representatives of the craft chamber and the sports fishing alliances on the board have asked the State Secretary what this direct supervision means but it is responsible that the Ministry of Agriculture in cooperation with other state bodies, the Ministry of Interior, port captains and others will define the instructions or regulations on who will do what. I believe that this should be defined by law and that it remains as prescribed by other laws, in particular, by the Law on the formation and division of the Ministry, and that it is sufficient for fishing inspectors and other authorised officials of the Ministry of Agriculture to state there that coordination of other state bodies must, of course, be in the implementation of other laws, but there was no need to create confusion and that someone was clouding water and that special supervision is now working on fishing waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143013	Thank you, answer, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143014	Thank you. I just think it's clearly regulated that everyone within their powers, within their laws, I will specifically tell you veterinarians, border inspectors certainly work different inspectors' supervision than fishermen's inspectors. I'm sure different surveillance is done by the police or the customs department. Therefore, everyone within their powers should have just been counted that everyone within their powers had the power to control and oversee this law and to enforce the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143015	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Angel's Uncle's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143016	Thank you colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. The freshwater fisheries of the Republic of Croatia include economic and sports recreational fisheries, freshwater fisheries, fishing, fish protection and habitats, and ecologicality of landwater. The development of freshwater fish farming in Croatia has been a tradition for more than a century, which together with favourable natural conditions and the quality of water resources has unquestioned potential for its further sustainable development. Two species of fish are mostly grown, in the lowland areas are dominated by carp farming, and in the Gorski regions it is characteristic of trout farming. According to the report by the Ministry of Agriculture of freshwater fish in Croatia in 2016, 43 producers were carrying out at 51 growers in 18 counties. By 1991, by the time the war broke out, freshwater fishing was a highly developed activity of great economic importance for the country. After the war, the situation deteriorated as best reflected in the example that before the war we produced about 15 thousand tons of carp only annually while today the total product of all freshwater fish is less than 4 thousand tonnes. For comparisons, BiH increased production from 2000 to 8,000 tonnes. It is the same with Slovenia from 350 tonnes to 2000 tonnes as with Serbia from 4000 to 16000 tonnes. A series of problems that led to the decline in the production of freshwater fish from unsettled land books, the whole market for the placement of freshwater fish has not been arranged, fish consumption has been reduced, resulting in poor demand. Prices of production inputs are constantly increasing and monitoring global trends as the income from the fish sold decreases. All of this has resulted in today's poor state of freshwater fishing. The importance of freshwater fisheries for the Republic of Croatia is certainly great and comes not only from its basic activity, i.e. the production of healthy, quality and particularly cheap food, but also from its ecological value and importance for the economy. In rural areas it is necessary to develop sport fishing as part of which will enrich the tourist offer and thus lead to the start of the economy primarily in tourism in these areas. When we talk about the EU area and we are members of the EU, here are a few figures for the comparison related to it. The EU's fishing industry is the fifth largest in the world, i.e. it provides about 6 to 7 million tonnes of fish annually as the average annual consumption moves to around 12 million tonnes. Annual consumption per capita at EU level is 23.3% and this number ranges from 4.6 kg in Bulgaria to 61.6 kg in Portugal and in the Republic of Portugal records about 9 kg per capita, which is a very low level of consumption. As for freshwater fisheries, the EU produces 23% of freshwater fish and replaces the rest with imports from third countries. Since I'm also coming to the Varazdin County, I'm going to give you more information on fish consumption for her area. In total, only 2 kg of fish per person or 350 to 400 kn are consumed annually in the area of Varazdin County. Only 25 to 30 tonnes and 5 to 7% of total needs are produced. If we consider that the area of the Varazdin County is rich in water, 4 rivers flow, namely Drava, Bednja, Plitvica and Lonja, and a series of streams, we can see how many possibilities for further development and growth of freshwater fisheries. Such a bad situation could be resolved by co-financing existing aquaculture sites and by giving incentives to local OPGs and individuals who want to target their business in the future in this direction of the economy. So I think the law is well written, and I will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143017	Thank you, too. Let's move on, Mr. Miro Bulj, he's gone, he's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143018	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues, we have a second reading of the Law on freshwater fishing. Each law as well as this one can be viewed in one piece that is formal, one piece that is content. By formal adoption of the Aquaculture Act, it was logical that this law must be passed because it needs to be defined and the law is in its technical works and elements that it was made, properly done and we will support it. What I would like to highlight from this law is a more detailed definition of certain concepts. So what you've always had when it comes to water, water use, and it's always a problem which is a blue area, which is an induction belt and what I can commend that only one conceptr in which you're more clear and defined. Similarly, sports fishermen had some comments on their first reading but the second reading showed that they were more or less satisfied and it is good that when such a law is passed, to communicate with those who will actually use this law, you know, those who will feel the consequences of the law, it is good to communicate. Equally, the law has a pretty big part that talks about administrative discharge and that's good. Now, there's always one but. So we even have it in laws well defined, in reality, it's a little different. It would be good to see, through reality, that we really have the possibility of an e-registration, not to set up that then you still have to get something papered, you know, still a lot of our citizens like and some other form so that it would be, absolutely by law acquired all the assumptions but I hope that the ministry will keep an eye on, so if you see that there are some things wrong, it will be a topic of implementation, so it's not even a topic of law but a theme of control and a theme of implementation. What I would like to stress from this law is two things. One thing is to protect nature and the environment. So we had a day yesterday, World Environment Day, when you listen to little debates at EU level at all, all talk about climate change that is the topic of this century. We take care of it formally, essentially, and I'm afraid very little. I even happened to hear our foreign minister talking about the importance of climate change yesterday, about the importance of everything, so this law has something to do with it. So when it comes to freshwater fishing, when it comes to this use, it has to be something that must be under common supervision, not in a way that is not used, but in a way that we can see the processes that are happening, that some fish, that some fish will no longer be, that some others might come, so these are processes that must be seen from this must not only be seen, but you can see these processes, but what you need to see, so this is something that should be interdisciplinary because if you see that in certain freshwater streams where some fish have been and therefore traditionally some fish are no more than others, so all of these changes will be adapted very quickly. I think that man will adapt the hardest because there will be some other species, some other species of animal, and that's something to take care of. This one monitoring, so from that one contact with the fishermen, the fishermen will first recognize it, the fishermen will first say more where I traditionally went on the sleeves of the Drava River and I traditionally had sports fishing, and the fish are gone, the people of my something is happening. These are some alarming situations. So every time it comes to a law like this, every one of us should look at it and read it the other way, somehow a lot more the economy will read it what it means for the economy, someone who's more someone else, will read it like that. I read it in the context of really climate change, nature protection and environmental protection, and what's important is this monitoring, it's important to monitor processes, it's important to see what happens because then you can adapt to it. Croatia has one great potential, and that is, we have, therefore, freshwater water or better to say, we have the characteristics of Croatia, so this valley part, we have this part that is hilly, so in the lowland part you have one kind of water, in this karst you have another, so you have a different animal world and different processes. It's something that you, we can't manage, but through good observation we need to know what's going on and in time actually signal the processes that are. And I would say one more thing through this law, which is this happy or unfortunate state inspectorate of ours. So what we did when the State Inspectorate went is we're here from the pay phone, which everyone else listened to is good. That's when I said that we were trying to make sure that the mess that started was not solved by a new mess, I said that everything in terms of food protection, in terms of consumer protection, that it would be good if in this great State Inspectorate and already, but on this example, we see that the fishing inspectors stayed at the ministry with you, and the vets are in the State Inspectorate. And now there's going to be a drill when there's a fishing inspector from your ministry or the Ministry of Agriculture and a vet from the State Inspectorate. So the effect that the State Inspectorate was trying to achieve was certainly not achieved. When it comes to inspection, I have never experienced an inspection, and I will not experience it as someone who exclusively goes out and punishes, because it is not good, because if you, therefore, have to educate, you have to take care of what happens to you on the ground, you have to be on the ground so that you can know, any inspector has to handle the regulations extremely well, it has to handle better than the ones he controls, and then in supervision if you establish the first time, there can always be something, but when second time, my God, second time is no longer an accident but on purpose. So we see in this law that this story, of course, does not go to you, it goes to a whole reform called the State Inspectorate, that what was intended to be achieved with the State Inspectorate will prove that in the end it has not been achieved, because, in the example of freshwater fishing, we see that two bodies have been treated. That's not what we wanted. So, in the meantime, if you're going to make a deal, then the fishing inspectors are going to go to the State Inspectorate, and I don't know about that, but this is a model we're already seeing here on this model that it's not good. As I said, we will support this law, I always share the laws on those technical ones that regulate something, I don't think any regulation should be seen in a way that is carved into stone, so you can't change it. This regulation that we've got is correct, it's really going to solve some things, but what we all do together, and here I'm deliberately using this opportunity and I'm kind of talking to the Ministry of Agriculture. You have one wide resistor, a resistor which is and the ground, whether agriculture or not, which are and forests, regardless of whether they are chicars or are created as forests, which are and water, therefore in terms of economic use, all the consequences of climate change are seen there. You must be an active participant. What's not good is not good to do it sectorally. You know, from the point of view of environmental protection is one story, but the relationship to climate change is both the relationship of the economy and some new economy and some new way of using both soil and forest and water and everything. And so I'm really taking this opportunity to talk about it. I'm usually, you know, every one of us has some topics where I'm not a parliamentary representative of general practice, and I don't think I understand everything, there are some topics that I hate to talk about, but there are some topics that I think I understand. And what I am absolutely sure is that the topic of environmental and nature protection in the context of climate change is a key topic, but not a topic in a way that we only have good and quality provisions in a particular law but in reality. So, follow, observe, see the processes, and then behind that let's adjust in time, because nature will do its part, and we won't adapt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143019	Thank you, too. Mr. Liposchack was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143020	Thank you. Well, here's Mrs. Dark Taritash you mentioned that the law is okay, but that implementation is questionable, especially here you mentioned these e-authories, but as you yourself said, it's good to communicate with the fishermen themselves, or the field, and it's precisely from that communication that has actually happened to a transitional period of time in which the introduction of these e-registrations occurs because it's very difficult on the ground to bring it into line there are two populations we can tell the fisherman, those who are willing to momentarily switch to this e-registration and those who think they'll never be able to do it, and that's why I think that this, too, we can say the transitional period will allow everyone to adapt in a new way and actually allow the implementation of the law in the envisaged time frames. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143021	Mrs. Dark Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143022	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, that's exactly what I'm talking about. What you have to create, we have to create all the platforms to make it work. So I can only give you a comparison running, we have a cottage at sea, we have the possibility that when my mom goes to sea to report, it's a terrible problem, she'll rather go three times and apply there because she has to get the paper, because she doesn't believe if she doesn't get the paper, but these are all adjustments for some other generations, for some other people, and you have to create a platform and drive to that adjustment, so if 10% of it's paper we've already made something. But what we need all the time to keep an eye on, which is not good, we already had regulations in which we said ok we have e-records and we have, but then when you came into some other system they said no, no it's not worth it to you you have to go there and what you've written another someone has to tap the seal. So that's what the whole faith in the seal is, that's what I was talking about. So, of course they'll always be people. But let's make it work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143023	Thank you, Mrs. Dark Taritash. Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Dark you were talking, you were talking about inspections and I agree with you and I was talking about it myself that either all inspections should be in the inspectorate or food inspectors in one place. I agree with you on that, too. However, you've been talking about observation and climate change, and I see that you're well prepared for this debate and I'm interested in how you see an inundation area and arranged that area in the river's corotation, and when the river floods this inundation area, which are then authorised, the authority should collect that fish and return it to the riverbed, do you think it's objectively possible and if it isn't done, would it be better if the fish were picked up by the cormorants or to fish it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143025	Answer, ma'am. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143026	Thank you very much for asking. So, regarding the inspection we've agreed and regarding this, there's no magic wand and there's no answer, I can just give you the comparison for, we had a law that said you shouldn't take sand and gravel out of the water stream. And no, no, no, now that I'm talking about yours, we're not gonna be able to do it soon, and that when it happened to you, I'm going to set an example of the Sava River, we haven't done it from our half of the imaginary, or someone who's been doing it, has been doing it illegally, neighborly, so the neighbouring country has been doing it from its half, and everyone who's had an education, this has started to happen. It began to happen that the trough suddenly started to eat and now we've come back to our senses and told my people, you can't put down such bans, bans aren't good. Just like that, which is the right solution, let's see. I think it's better to use fish than to bring it back, but I'm really not an expert on it, and I don't have a magic wand, but it's definitely a problem, so we'll see what it is, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143027	Time, time. Thank you very much, and now on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Marija Vuckovic will have the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143028	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In this final word, I would first of all like to thank all the MPs and MPs who participated in the debate at the first reading held on January 25th at the 11th session who have significantly helped us make the text of the final bill look like it does today. As regards the observations which are now finally made either in an individual debate or in the name of clubs, I would only briefly refer to the fact that a good part of the remarks is not related to the Law on freshwater fisheries but is practically the area of aquaculture which is now regulated by a special regulation that came into force in December 2017, but also to observations and references to certain trends in aquaculture that are not always very good. So, as far as fishing is concerned, I'm going to fix it up a little bit, we have good trends, and a total of aquaculture if we look at 2013-2017, we have a growth of 13,000 tonnes to 17,000 tonnes, but trends are good in white and blue fish, in white fish, in tuna good, and in freshwater fish and not so good. Therefore, we have also notified the first state support in freshwater fishing our one for the carps that have been talked about today, but it has been incorrectly stated that no compensation has been paid in 2015 and 2016 or in 2017 because the notification process has not been taken in time but only since January 2017. These fees are increased, every year, we paid in 2018 when we received the notification in 2017 and we believe that it will help to recover this sector, we also referred to the process of notifying another type of state support, and we hope that we will continue to be able to support this sector and, of course, the sector has its own responsibility to get state support in the right way and to achieve it from a multi-annual development process, and to achieve the planned amounts and amounts of value from the multi-annual development plan of aquaculture, which should be from these 4000 tonnes that you mentioned today for freshwater aquaculture, increase at least 6000 tonnes. As for land and impact on this area, meaning the new Agricultural Land Act goes according to its plan, so far they have issued 164 consents on programmes available, somewhere around 260 programs are in the process of change and complementing and we expect soon the first competitions that will have a positive impact on this part. The remarks discussed today and later between the first reading and the second reading were presented by the representative in the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vlaović and mentioned in the saying... I think we have well explained on the Committee on Agriculture why it will not increase the black and grey market, why we think it is a good introduction and that it will help develop fishing tourism and as far as I understand the presence of the HOK, it is our observation and accepted and I do not think that they continue to insist on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as fishing tests are concerned, which are not available for daily and multi-day permits and are available for a year, we have not accepted such remarks because it is different to have an annual licence and are different and are both rights and obligations to take a daily licence. In addition, such permits are more intended for tourists to be asked a simple question, so that it is possible to organise an exam and in which languages for tourists, we have a solution which is applicable in other countries and the difference in rights and obligations arising from the daily and yearly permit is seen in the prices applicable to such types of licences. I don't think I explained how it was said today but quite different, but if I wasn't clear enough, I'm going to try to correct myself. So the fishing inspection carries out inspections regulated by the Maritime Fisheries Act, the freshwater fishing law. In order to function rationally in this state administration and in a proper way integrated, integrated and co-operated interdisciplinaryly, we have used the means that our fishing inspections have made possible the routes of the maritime and fisheries operational programme, amounting to 37m euros, we and one and a half of the adopted Law on Marine Fisheries and under the final proposal of this law, we plan to train state officials of the MUP, let's say the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance and Customs Administration, etc., to carry out together with us the inspection supervision provided for by this law and not to enter what they are responsible for under their special regulations. It works well now in the Marine Fisheries Act, we are 210 people last year, training has passed, training has been given powers, helping us carry out our surveillance, according to our regulations, and that is why the powers are being mentioned. And as far as direct surveillance is concerned, he refers to guards in the institutions for the management of protected... Areas and county officials, they are not inspectors, it is not about inspection because it is not about civil servants and therefore the term direct supervision applies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It works perfectly, after only one year of application of the Marine Fisheries Act, we protect it better, we use common equipment, we have seen the drone system, so it will be with other means of transport, so why not apply the same principle in the freshwater fishing law. Infringements are in line with breaking laws, it is said of penalties of up to 50,000, but for natural persons they are between 2 and 8000, as regards the observation that there are more infringements when someone does not bring a permit but when someone wants to perjury, we are talking about a certain blue area which are areas of the natural area and there are greater damages, and the penalties are also higher. At the end of the information process, we have a good experience and an application relating to marine fisheries, our fishermen have been through a very difficult adjustment process and it is fully functioning, I thank them, and we believe that this experience and this application that we are actually going to use under this law will also help us, and power will be implemented in a very short time with the full, complete implementation that I am predicting for 2021, but a very large part of it already at the end of this year and in 2020. Finally, of course, I agree with the need for interdisciplinary action and protection of our nature, water and soil, and the Ministry of Agriculture will seek to cooperate with all other ministries competent and also follow your observations and useful suggestions, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143029	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mrs. Poirot. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143030	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the National Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, Mrs. Vučković, therefore what my remark was about the inspection and what you were answering were two different topics. So one thing is that civil servants need to be educated and another thing is that you will educate and officials of some other ministries that they can do this job and that should be done and should be used and, of course, the officers will be supervised. My theme was what the reason was, so it was the great State Inspectorate, why didn't the fishermen go to that State Inspectorate based on what criteria? Based on what sense it was because if one whole process were to be in one place at the State Inspectorate, then it would be a point for them to go too. I'm curious about why they decided that some of the sectors only some of the inspectors didn't go, others went, by what criteria?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143031	Would you like to answer? Yes, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143032	The fisheries inspection is a user of the maritime and fisheries operational programme, it is as a user in the management and control system and as a user and as an enforcer of certain measures has specific rights and obligations. In our view, there have been unnecessary requests for changes to the operational programme, I think it works now well and in this process the fishing inspection should remain within the management system of the Ministry of Agriculture responsible for the implementation of an operational programme for maritime and fisheries that was late with accreditation, which had a number of problems which have now been largely removed and to bring unnecessary administrative burdens, it was one of the reasons and a number of other reasons because not only the fishing inspection remained in its own, but just one part of the jobs is that fishing inspection relating to food and food safety that were covered by the previous law, passed on to a part of the inspection so that we do not expect that there will be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143033	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143034	Final proposal of the Act on freshwater fisheries, second reading, P.Z. Number 515. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. Here you go, pal Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143035	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the HSS Club, I request a 10-minute break to consult on how we will vote on the proposal for a law on freshwater fisheries. Namely, the association that is a member of the Chamber of craftsmen of freshwater fishermen engaged in economic fisheries has referred to this law a number of amendments. No one in the debate has been accepted. They sent a memo to all the bodies of the assembly asking for this law to go into third reading. I think it's a good suggestion, that all the stakeholders involved in this law should be respected, to see what they have to say. What is crucial is that they object to the fact that economic fishermen and those engaged in economic fishing, who have economic fishing licences, are placed in a subordinate position with regard to sports fishermen. In fact, the Institute of Catches is being introduced, so it pays that it doesn't exist anywhere in the world only is being introduced through this law in Croatia. They want it to be as it has been so far, so let it go, especially on open water because it does not exist anywhere in Europe and it is the basis for creating a gray fish market and it certainly is not good if it is not better. For example, sometimes there were 36 economic fishermen in Vukovar and around Vukovar who had registered craftsmen, and now there are only 5 of them, and it is unacceptable for them to narrow down the area where they can fish, it is unacceptable for them to harass them and take away fishing gears, it is unacceptable for them that on the other hand Serbian neighbours have 260 registered crafts, have a quota to fish 900 tonnes while our fishermen have only 100 tonnes of quota. In this way, surely, it will not contribute to the development of this region, especially as the inspector who should have make the order the other day arrested for [[Intruder: Thank you.]] non-compliance with the law in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143036	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I approve a 10-minute break. So we continue at 12 o'clock and 28 minutes. Thank you. It's 12.18 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12,29 HOURS]] So now we are voting on the final proposal of the Law on freshwater fishing, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 515. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Josip Križanic. I would now like to ask the representative of the promoter of the respected Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture to be shown about the amendments submitted. We have Amendment 1. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143038	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143039	It becomes an integral part of the law. And we have an amendment to MP Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143040	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143041	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Secretary of State. So I am voting on the final proposal of the freshwater fishing law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for and 7 against the law on freshwater fishing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143042	And now we move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Agriculture List Act 2020, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 648 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We still have the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture with us, ma'am. Maria Vukkovic, who will take the safe word. Here you go, but, yeah? What? I said you'd take the safe word, and you agree, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143043	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of HS, Mrs. President-in-Office. MPs and gentlemen of Parliament. The law on official statistics in its article. 34 It provides that extensive statistical research will be regulated by a special law and are an integral part of the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia and the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia. As we are talking about extensive research, and this is also the planned survey on agriculture, the Agricultural List of 2020 Act is ensured except as it is based on art. The law on official statistics also provides for the implementation of the new Regulation in 2018. 1091 on integrated statistics at farm level. It should also be said that such extensive agricultural research has been conducted in the EU since 1966, on the principle of every 10 years full research and every 3 years on the basis of a sample. The last full survey of agriculture in this way was carried out in 2003 in the Republic of Croatia, and three years of research has been carried out on the basis of the sample since 2007. New Regulation No. In 2018, the Council and Parliament Regulation lays down a framework for European agricultural statistics at the level of agricultural holdings and defines a programme for data collection in order to carry out such research for the period from 2020 to 2026. Therefore, this draft provides that the basic data for 2020 are collected by the list of all units, and the data for 2023, 2006 means every... every 3 years based on a sample. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The data required by the regulation and thus provided for in this proposal for a law will include 98% of the agricultural area used in the Republic of Croatia and 98% of the livestock units, i.e. bovine animals. This proposal for a Agricultural List Act 2020 defines reference periods, national thresholds for the implementation of the Regulation, list content, obligations and rights of participants to collect lists, how to collect lists, finance and everything else relevant for this extensive research and publication of full results. The list will be implemented from 1 to 30 June 2020. In the case of agricultural holdings, i.e. listed units, it should be pointed out that the holding holding which is an independent economic and technical unit and is carrying out its economic activity, and within the meaning of this law, which uses at least 0.4 hectares of agricultural area, i.e. in the case of vineyards, orchards and olive groves, has at least 0.1 hectares of surface area and/or has 0,5 livestock units and conditional cattle. The list of farms will not cover areas under vegetables for personal purposes located less than 100 square metres. Data for the implementation of the list will be collected directly and equally through administrative elections. The direct way of data collection from family farms will be done by interviewing using portable computers and by means of legal, physical and other persons, meaning not of the OPG, which is the basic activity of agriculture, will be collected by electronic means and exclusively printed forms. Furthermore, as I said, since apart from direct collection, we will also use administrative sources. The basic administrative sources for the collection of data for the implementation of the agricultural list will be the databases referred to in Article. 117. Agriculture law, integrated administrative and control system of the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Vineyard Register and the databases established in connection with the implementation of rural development measures. The contents of the list will be defined. 13 laws and is in line with the prescribed methodology of the Regulation. The list of regulations, as I said, will be in line with the regulation. The regulation includes one basic act and 3 annexes relating to applicable variables, modules and groups of data. The list of farms will be prepared and organised by the State Statistics Institute by the end of 2019. The Director of the DZS is obliged to adopt sub-legislative acts, regulations relating to a more detailed definition of the methodology. The first results of the census will be published in November 2020 and the full results of the census must be published by 31 December 2021. By the end of this year, therefore, sublegal acts are planned and lists centres are defined and census committees are defined, list centres, organise special training, make public calls for censuses. Some 3,000 coordinators, censuses, members of census centres, list committees will participate in the process. Compared to the number of 17,000, it was during the last full list since 2003. For this purpose, €34.15 million was secured from the state budget and here, compared to that, in 2003, this amount was slightly more than € 125 million, this rationalisation is largely based on the progress of information technologies. The funds are therefore secured in the state budget and around 1m euros will be provided from the EU. The list of agriculture will be extensive statistical research, it is good to be carried out at the same time as the Ministry of Agriculture is working on the National Development Strategy of Agriculture and together these lists, these established statistical bases will be a good knowledge base for this common agricultural policy after 2020, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143044	Thank you, too. Three replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143045	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, here's just a quick question and a brief answer, which is why we're going to an emergency procedure? Why are we going to an emergency procedure? Why is it the first and second reading, why we didn't go through some regular procedure, I see that it's not a rush, we have until next year but why some laws really come here to the Assembly by emergency procedure, the quick, quick, and maybe here, I get the impression that this isn't so urgent and that it wasn't necessary right away first and second reading, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143046	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143047	Thank you very much. An emergency procedure is needed because censuses will have to be trained, censuses organised, coordinators, controllers, made public calls, lessons and, as I said, the first results should be, the first results should be in November 2020 and the list must be made from 1 to 30 June 2020. Given the expected actions, a detailed methodology has been followed for the need to carry out and the regulation was adopted only last year, the proposal is that this law is going into an emergency procedure, we couldn't have otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143048	- Mrs. Crescent. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143049	Thank you very much. So what you've answered, what's been a question, and it's good that it's possible for colleagues, so 3000 people will participate in all of this and toasts said that it's much less than it is in 2003, and you've explained that you have some data that are already available thanks to electronics, I'm interested in when you're going to start training, how long you think it'll take, are you ready for that because if you're ready for a year already, it means that you should train people well because it's important and not just contact with those who will interview but also get good information and what I'm using, it's going to be good for a little media, people know that someone will come to their door, that someone's going to knock my question is when you start and how long you think that the weather will take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143050	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143051	Thank you very much. This means the implementation of sublegal acts by the end of 2019, training of people, public calls for the first quarter of 2020, the list from 1 to 30 June 2020. As far as media monitoring is concerned, the State Statistics Office will organise and implement a detailed comprehensive information campaign for which funds are provided in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143052	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143053	Dear Secretary of State, first one compliment, I must say that you are one of all those who are in front of the ministries, farthest prepared by both the ministers and the secretary of state. Now one question, you know for yourself, is that we are soon followed by a census in 2021. We are doing this only a few months before the census is likely to be in the first months of 2021, a simple question, given that this is costing 34 million kuna, whether or not it could be taken care of, or whether it was possible to reduce the costs given that it goes to both households and that in the agricultural households, and that a lot of data will be overlapped, so give me an answer, why it didn't work out, which is why it goes separately because 34 million kuna is very much money, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143054	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143055	Here I have to do it again, you may not like it, but I have to point out again that we couldn't do the list of farms before we got the framework prescribed by a new regulation for these types of statistics, full statistics at the level of agricultural economies. When this regulation was adopted, it was necessary to wait for the implementation, regulation 1874 which prescribes further, we should work on that methodology and I will personally say that the methodology is good and complete but we are also required to deliver the data at a certain time. All these dates that I have instructed are simply binding and prescribed and are in line with the new programming period. Efforts are to cut costs, many costs have been excluded from these lists, there have been discussions and co-ordination in the government, many costs related to administration have been excluded, and that is why I pointed out how much it cost 16 years ago, I don't think we could go further, we couldn't connect, we have to follow the prescribed periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143056	Time, thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening the debate, and it's the first turn of the HDZ Representatives Club to be represented by Mr. Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143057	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with his associates. Strategic documents are under way to meet the challenges of the agriculture and fisheries sector in the post-2020 period. Proposal for a Agricultural List Act 2020 provides for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091. The European Parliament and the Council of 18 July 2018 in integrated statistics at the level of agricultural holdings. The list of farms aims to obtain as precise data as possible on Croatian agriculture, land management, agricultural production, the way agricultural land is used, livestock stock and animal accommodation and land manure management facilities, irrigation, labour in agriculture, additional activities on the agricultural holding, the sale of agricultural products to support measures, rural development and adaptation to organic agricultural production and environmental protection aspects. The implementation of the 2020 agricultural list is foreseen from 1 to 30 June 2020 in the Republic of Croatia. The reference period is set out in the proposal of the Agricultural List Act 2020 for: data on the use of agricultural land for... They shall be collected with a state of play on 1 June 2020. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Data on the link between livestock and animal holding shall also be collected on 1 June 2020. Data on the relationship with the management of manure shall be collected for a 12-month period of reference from 2 June 2019 to 1 June 2020. Data relating to rural development measures carried out in individual agricultural holdings shall be collected for a three-year reference period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2020 and data relating to irrigation, land management and labour shall be collected for a 12-month period from 2 June 2019 to 1 June 2020. I believe that the adoption of this law, as well as the list of agricultural resources, yesterday I spoke of it as an important secretary of state and on the board, should be used as a guideline and a basis in the development of the Croatian agriculture strategy and should make sure that the data obtained are incorporated into the common agricultural policy in 2020-2027 as a specificity of Croatia's agriculture within the EU. It's a good thing we're finally listing an existing state, doing inventory, which is what we have in common. What we have, where we're enough, where we're not. It is important to record what needs are in the future and what is to be subsidized from it. Furthermore, it is necessary to align the results obtained with the action plan that coincides with the expected time of the census results as we heard yesterday. In the end, all this must be the basis for negotiations for the common agricultural policy, as well as spending and seeking to be self-sufficient of basic agricultural products, because this is neither against nor dispute. It is much more important to withdraw and burn the funds for direct payments in agriculture and directly encourage the acquisition of agricultural machinery, the construction of farms, equipment and livestock, than the massive agglomerations and sewerage that are being pushed from the EU. What we need is billions of dollars in desert Slavonian villages if our farmers are not competitors, if they are not provided with direct payments for land and livestock, sensitive sectors, and all of these are competing with their colleagues on the same European market under the same conditions. Of course, it should be very clear that some things should be encouraged more, some less, and some things should not be. The data on the structure of agricultural economies will be comparable at EU level and will provide the necessary statistical knowledge base for planning, implementation and supervision, evaluation and revision of related policies, particularly the common agricultural policy, which I spoke about, including rural development measures, environmental policy and climate change adaptation policies, land use and some of the objectives of sustainable development. The national strategy of rural development agriculture and the multiannual fisheries development plan, after 2020, will also define the objectives and guidelines of the action of agricultural policy, in order to increase the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture. We are already designing targets and guidelines for improving Croatian agriculture and fisheries and increasing competitiveness and creating a prerequisite for sustainable economic and social development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to reiterate that the basis for the development of strategies whose comprehensive diagnostic analyses, the spending of public funds in the agriculture, fisheries and rural development sector, as well as this 2020 agricultural list, needs to be a comprehensive statistical survey. The EU Integrated Statistics Regulation requires data that Member States should include 98% of total use of a vegetable-free agricultural area and 98% of livestock units for each Member State. Statistics should cover areas of use for agricultural production including land used by several agricultural holdings for the purpose of applying common rights, and propose to adopt a Agricultural List Act 2020 defining national thresholds and setting out the content of the list of agricultural, list of units and data collection, the rights and obligations of participants, organisations and implementation of the list of agriculture, financing and other relevant issues for implementation. It is proposed to implement the list of agriculture in the period from 1 to 30 June, as previously stated, and the data will be collected directly from the OPGs and business entities from administrative data sources, i.e. databases based on art. 117 of the Agricultural Act,... Vineyard register of the Republic of Croatia and records related to certain rural development measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The State Secretary has already stated that the list will cover holdings with more than 0,40 hectares of use of agricultural production, area of pardon and 0,5 livestock units or less than 0,40 hectares of use of the agricultural area, but at least 0,1 hectares of orchards, vineyards or olive groves. The list proposes to cover the CAPs involved in agricultural production and related other useful activities, business entities as well as parts thereof that carry out agricultural production. Data collection, data on the management of agricultural holdings, members of holdings, labour force, land management, use of oranics, vegetables, meadows, pastures, orchards, vineyards, olive groves and other permanent plantations and other land,... the number of livestock, poultry and other animals, animal accommodation facilities, land manure management, organic farming, rural development measures, other activities on the holding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Regulation implementing the methodology for the list of agriculture is adopted by the Director of the Department of Statistics in order to coordinate activities in the counties and in Zagreb, the list committees for counties will be established, i.e. the City of Zagreb, and the area of the city and several cities and municipalities will be established. The data will be used exclusively for statistical purposes and will be the basis for updating the statistical register of agricultural holdings. For national purposes, data will be collected on expected yields of important crops and fruit and fuel consumption. In conclusion, this law is good. The data obtained after the implementation of the agricultural list, I repeat, is necessary to integrate into the following two documents important, so the list of agriculture as a prerequisite for the strategy, our, Croatian, long-awaited strategy of agriculture, and to install the strategy as a specificity of Croatia's agriculture into the EU's common agricultural policy. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143058	Thank you, too. He's in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists now, Mr. Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143059	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. We have before us the Agricultural List Act. In fact, you're here, the esteemed secretary said that these statistical indicators as they have been done so far, but I think that here you should talk about the state of agriculture, that these statistical indicators will be devastating, but you should believe that some kind of strategies that are real are going to be derived from these statistical indicators, but we need to know that today from 2 billion 695 and slightly more thousands, two billion hectares, that one third of them are actually not, in fact, using statistics at all. So, we're talking about agricultural land, and we're talking about cattle stock, that's what we're talking about. This law could, what my colleague said earlier, go into two readings, and I honestly have more reasons to talk a little bit about the statistics of the moment, and everything from what we respect about the directives, we need to know how much land we have, how much we process, how much we don't process, how much is under concession, which is why we have a huge problem in Slavonia where the government has raised its hands, i.e. The Minister of Agriculture, who was supposed to explain this law here, would be minimally correct from the Minister of Agriculture because we know that in Slavonia the land that was under Agrokor's concession that there are simply no new competitions, simply must now be signed by foreign owners of municipalities that resist. By the time that happened, I'd like to know from you. Have you forced people to continue to resist or want all your responsibility, transfer to the mayors and mayors of the municipalities and the key problem here is, so this land that is in state hands, which is under concessions, and of course is ultimately the most important strategy, but in Croatia so many strategies have been made, and in agriculture, based on these statistical indicators from the list, that agriculture is essentially reversed. Instead of these statistical indicators that will be implemented from 2020, but until... You should make some kind of strategy that's gonna be real. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not that we have statements like we have, that we will export milk to China, that is. no statements, your ministry boasted, so if anyone can tell from you how much you're planning, how much cattle stock we have here now, dairy production for cows. It's very important to me that statistical indicator and I know that we won't be realistic. Why do I ask you that? The Ministry of Agriculture has published, i.e. The government of the Republic of China said they would export milk and dairy products to China at a meeting with the Chinese when they were representatives of China. Here, the secretary's here now, so I'd like to give it to you. How much do you predict exports to China, because I saw that you signed the veterinary protocols, how much do you predict exports to China, and how much excess RH currently has to export to China? And that most disappoints me, I brought here was milk that says Sinjska mlekkara, Mljekara Sinj, in fact which is the only thing we have in my Sinjsko polje, and the entire Republic of Croatia a large part of the area of agriculture which is not watered and from that strategy is, so far, the strategy, i.e. The lists needed certain strategies that existed, the money was being thrown, essentially being thrown, not thrown if nothing had been done, when we didn't have the results. All the money we have, which we invest for the lists, for the lists in agriculture, should be a strategy and this strategy should be realistic and should be feasible, not that we will export milk and whose milk we export? Well, you signed, gentlemen of the ministry, a protocol on milk exports to China. I don't know, China will have enough resources, potential traffic, tankers or how it's going to be produced for all of our surplus milk. So is that mockery for me, and here I am, I don't know, which is a more difficult word to say, the export of milk? Perhaps the milk formerly owned by a company owned by Serbia owned by the former privatisation minister during Slobodan Milosevic who bought land in the Sinjska area of Kukuzovac, is a fictitious company that brought milk from Vojvodina because he became the owner of a foreign fund that bought milkers in Serbia, in Vojvodina, in Republika Srpska, in BiH, and has essentially been given the EU market by this fictitious company, but this is surprising to me, I have asked the prime minister here, is the really encouraging protocol on the export of milk and milk products? So we have a Pag, here's what we're going to do if we're going to go for sheep, one pasha cheese and a sheep lamb where a dump is done and a cargo station in the middle of the pasture where 24, 25 of them are in the middle of the pasture, where you know by sheep that it's a dirty land, that it's a pasha cheese, and there's just a loading station. So let's be realistic and it's important that this agricultural list law, I believe that things will change, and when it is written, to make a list of agriculture and livestock units and agricultural land and what can be processed, that there will be some kind of strategy but a viable strategy because otherwise we are uselessly carrying out that list of farms if that strategy is not repeated again, which is not, again, what is the most important that it is achieved because otherwise in the Republic, there is so much strategy, planning documentation, I don't know where it all costs, I know every time the budget is here, here when we have the budget that when we're making proposals and amendments or something, the funds for the planning documentation are allocated from year to year, so where these money is released, the planning documentation is being archived, and how much money has been spent up to that strategy? We could've bought the entire agricultural land in the U.S. how much was spent on it. So here is the goal, so the goal of this, and I believe that it will finally start and that in this list, we will see from this list as to what comes about agriculture, where we go, and how in fact to give the solution that agriculture in the Republic of Croatia is working, and not that we are unreally boasting about things that are not real, that we are going to export milk to China, and that is one of the main protocols, the meeting of the People's Republic of China and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Their leadership, and you've explained it on the official pages, but you have to have some kind of plan of how much milk you're going to produce, how many dairy products. I see nothing but that we will export the milk imported into Croatia through a fictitious company that milks money from our pockets, which stops the development of livestock production in my regions, to Dalmatia Zagora, which owns this company Sinj is the owner of a man from Serbia because he bought a privatisation minister during Slobodan Milosevic and will essentially be resolved through Croatia for the Chinese market. I don't see any of them because I don't see cows. I don't see sheep, I don't see any shepherds, I don't see any shepherds, I don't see any shepherds, I don't see any shepherds, I don't see cattle, I say shepherds, but here, your fellow parties say they're shepherds and I don't need them now, these are words that are used, so I don't see cattle, I don't see cattle, and we're going to export milk to China, and that's the main thing on the farm pages was, the minister is signing a protocol on the export of milk and milk products to China, and then there's supposed to be an analysis, which is going to be given to transport ić, that has the capacity of China tanker enough to export it all, and you don't have one, we in Croatia, which we have the agriculture not only caused to feel, but Croatian agriculture has been brought to the level that there for two children of milk products, which we have witnessed, we have a huge fall. Well, we've got a problem here, I'll talk about it, I've talked about it countless times, maybe I repeat myself, I apologize if I repeat myself. Here's the blue field, in the back of Split's river Cetina River is through three fields going. For years, the project has been promised both in the Split government and before. Em strategy, em projects, em planning documentation but no irrigation, in the middle of summer. The headlines are screaming in the Sinj field of drought. Farmers have problems, droughts. So the question is, is that on purpose if we have so many strategies, so much planning documentation, and every year, I've also set up a cornerstone so that we can work right away, as much as we... The Split government last year, a year has passed where it was promised to irrigate the Sinj field. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the river of Cetina passeth, now that someone cometh out of Israel is Cetina's river. Its sources and streams and springs are being thrown out more daily in one hour than in six years in the territory of Israel, and I don't understand why we don't have a irrigation system. It's not clear to me that in the Vrhorak field where people deal with winemaking and where it's very important for them to have activity and other farms, that we have floods, there's no draining, and there's no '38. Mr. priest from Vrgorec from Pojezer went to Belgrade to the king in a foreign country who, it was a lake and made a drain, the lake dried up, in '38. Mr. and we in the Croatian state today have low wineries that fail, someone threw an eye, a colleague Bačić is from that county so he can testify that it is true, that we have a winery in Pojezer, that we have winemakers who live on it and a peak field, I come, watch the flood, now the flood, the great damage to people in the vineyard, but the imports have been resolved, the EU, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, who does not and then import their grapes. And of course people will move out of those areas. Of course, this young man, who lives on peaches, vineyards, fruit trees, will take a chain saw and drink everything because he has no choice, he can't survive and when he comes, if he gives birth to it, then it's much cheaper for him because first we import what we need to introduce and then of course he's not competitive and that his price does not cover either his consumption, what he spent and invested either in vineyards or fruit growing. So from these statistical indicators that we're going to get after the list, I agree that we need a strategy but not just a strategy that's going to be paper, everything here is clear and clear. The fact that we've dropped milk production, we know that and since we joined the EU, it's been falling apart. The fact that Slavonia is empty. Now that Slavonia and people have invested in farms before joining the EU, bought, could not repay loans because they are not competitive and now this land is empty, but last year, so this year, at the beginning of this year, it seems to me that you have passed the law that since 2020, foreigners can buy foreign, natural and legal persons agricultural land, I see one goal here, while in Hungary a referendum was carried out that there is no sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons, which means that they hold it as a very important resource and that Croatia is in an unequal position, of 1.1. The law on concessions, too, but when you brought it, then don't and when we warned us that there was no transfer of concessions as it is now in the case where the owner was Agrokor, you brought it, we warned it, now that you brought it, don't force the head of municipalities, be brave, Ministry of Agriculture, I'm sorry to tell you, I'm sorry that Minister Tolusic is here, so to explain these things because it's very important, we're talking about agriculture and land, and it means that no matter what this is about, it's just a list of agriculture, but the most important thing is to protect agricultural land and to process it, and the story of milk exports to China is funny, thanking beautiful.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143060	Now it's Mr. Allen Prelec's turn, and here you are, Allen Prelec, in front of the SDP, here you are, the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143061	Thank you, Your Honor, for your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. It is indisputable to make a list of agriculture, and here we in the SDP have long been talking about the fact that Croatian agriculture should also have a strategy, the strategy is the most important document that will give the right direction to Croatian agriculture, here is my colleague Bulj talking about milk, I will not talk about milk, and cows, but I will talk more about this topic and the real list but it is undeniable and that a list should be made. What I was about to ask is why an emergency procedure, I think it may have gone a little late and that here we are going in first and second reading, it is not a big philosophy now and we will definitely support this legislation on the list of agriculture, it is necessary for Croatia, but it seems to me that we may have gone a little too late, and it seems to me that we are going in two readings for one such law but well, this is your assessment, I respect your assessment and I say, we will support it but here, there are a lot of things that my colleague Bulj said, Croatia needs a strategy to make sure that agricultural production is at the level that it is satisfying, when we talk about agriculture in general, then we can say that in Croatia of three meals, two meals are from imports, that is something we can't escape, unfortunately, these are facts, that would change, that it would be at least two meals would be Croatian and not as two meals, as well as two of Croatia's can be made to make it possible to make it possible to make the most of Croatia's agriculture, to make it possible to make it possible to make it possible to make it possible to make it possible for the most possible for the most. Here I am sorry to say, it goes in two readings, which is all in a hurry somehow seems to me, but if it brings us one good comprehensive strategy of Croatian agriculture after this list which will be next year at 6. Well, then I'll say good-bye. There's another thing that's got me so tickled as the head of the unit of local self-government and yesterday we had a committee that Mr. Lucic said about the part relating to the units of local self-government and here he writes a list of agriculture, preparation, organisation and implementation of the State Department of Statistics in cooperation with other participants of the list of agriculture in 2020 and local and regional self-government units. Clearly, the regional self-government is there to help all strategies, all lists and there is no doubt at all, my colleague said so what now, so I think it's that state institution, clearly it's not a state institution, it doesn't know some things and that local self-government is here to help, but I'm going to point out by which times, and I think it's going to share my opinion to all the mayors and mayors not here in the Parliament but in general all those who are doing this job, that we are here to be in some way a service of the state, to meet and list the population and list of agriculture and all possible choices, but this would be calling the unit of local self-government for funds. In Croatia, none of the other countries in the EU have such a small percentage of the funds, the total state resources available to local self-government units as Croatia has. I know for sure the information, I've said it a few times here, and I'll take it out. Croatian units of local self-government spend 17% of total state resources, not far below average, but are really at the beginning of the EU. The average spending of the local self-government unit in Europe is between 30% and 40%. It goes up to the Finnish 60s and something. It may not have anything to do with the subject, but I do, when we say that everything needs to be transferred to local self-government units, we are not against it, neither the mayor nor the mayor is against doing and doing a job that is important strategically important for Croatia but then we must get not only obligations but also money and we do not get money. The growing and larger powers have municipalities and cities, the harder and harder work we do, and we are always spinning somewhere between 15% and 17% of total spent funds, which is something that is inadmissible. Today and tomorrow, the agriculture strategy itself will be, and even today when we talk about the agriculture of a particular obligation of the local self-government unit regarding the availability of state property, all of this goes to the burden of units of local self-government, and the money is getting smaller and smaller. And I say, there is no good development in Croatia without strong strong cities and municipalities. There is no good agriculture in Croatia without the strong strength of the local self-government unit. That's something that, here, would like to mention here, because this list of agriculture goes in that direction, and I think we should worry more about cities and municipalities having more resources and a better budget. Now, one, one paradox in all of this together, here, in my community, we're dealing clearly and incentivising the O.P.G., farmers, doing education, and here, now we should be taking part in this list of agriculture, and now look at the paradox. In our time, we've been looking for a paying agency in agriculture a list of O.P.G.s from our area. So, here, as chief, I sign some kind of request, send it to the farm paying agency, and I get an answer, or I don't get an answer. So, it wasn't my whim, we were looking for a list of O.P.G.s to know the number and who's dealing with it, okay? And why we've been thinking about incentives, but not getting any answer, it's amazing how much I say, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, I'd say, indifferent to us how neglected we are, some of our needs and demands. And now, clearly I never give up on certain things and then I go to, according to the law on the right to access information, I ask the same of the agency's list of OPGs in my field, clearly, I get no answer. It turns out that really cities and municipalities have only obligations and we need obligations, but when we're looking for certain rights, then there's no rights. I don't know if Lopar might be different from my colleague, if he was looking for a list of O.P.G.s, so he got it, but here we didn't get it. So that's what I keep saying and fellow other mayors and commissioners, it's not enough just to create obligations to local self-government units, but should also have certain rights. I will use here and say a few words about the incentives to the OPGs that many OPGs use on the basis of only paperwork and there should be order in these incentives, I hope with the very list of agriculture that we will have better insight, how much land, how much production, how much OPGs have, so there will be no hunting in the blur again. And unfortunately, in Croatia there is too much money in blurry. OPGs are extremely important for Croatia. They have a positive impact on overall food security, safeguard agricultural biodiversity and sustainability of natural resources, preserve rural space. If we had slightly more developed and expanded OPGs, we would probably have fewer devastations in Slavonia, Lica, Gorski kotar and therefore need additional incentives and help from both the ministry and this House of Highers. They strengthen the local economy, they hire people. They are a key link between all stakeholders in food production. Furthermore, the OPGs keep traditional food products in order to contribute to a balanced diet and to the preservation of... biodiversity with sustainable exploitation and management of natural resources or wealth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] OPGs also represent a certain force for local and economic growth. I know it well, and I say, I have some of my models of incentives for the CAPs, agriculture, but clearly, a strong and real swing can only be given by the state, the ministry with one real policy, but before that, a clear strategy for the development of agriculture. And then, I don't think there's going to be any doubt whether the list will be made sooner or later, whether agriculture is like this or something like that, I believe that this, this list of farms that will be made in 2020, will be the beginning of a real Croatian agriculture strategy and that, finally, after 2020, we will have one real goal where this agriculture should go and that we will get from 3 meals, that we will have 2 and a half meals from Croatian villages, from Croatian OPGs, and not 2 meals from imports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143062	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Mrak-Taritash, who will speak on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143063	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an emergency procedure or procedure of the Agricultural List Act. Of course, when you have a law like this that is relatively simple and relatively clear, we also open up a series of topics related to agriculture. I would somehow, in my debate, still a little more focus on the meaning of that law. As the State Secretary said in the introduction, it was waiting for the directive to be adopted, or it was expected to be an EU-level directive and then to go beyond that by law and now define everything to be done, and what should be done will be done within a month of next year, so from June 1st to 30th 2020. The first time I met with a programme or a project that was supposed to be applied to, or an application for, EU funds, I was very surprised at the reason that there was a terrible amount of things that I didn't seem to need, that they were actually form. But the second time I actually realized what it was about. If the EU has 28 countries, I hope that this mess of Brexit will end, and eventually there will be 27 of us, some things must be standardised. So also from EU level, they have to prescribe some things that can be parallel because if each country does its own analysis and if it makes its list in its own way, you will not be able to compare anything with anything and I, which is actually in line with the directive, read in a way that Croatia needs to make its zero state, that this zero state should be compared to other EU members and in this zero state, you need to see your strategies further, your development, but also to be comparable to something else. The introduction was said, 3,000 people will participate in different ways, they have to be educated, and for that another rule has to be laid down to define the methodology, 35 million kunas will be spent. There was a little mention of 35 million kunas and what I just want to comment on, when you mention 5 or 10 thousand kunas, each of us understands it. When you start 10, 20, 30 million kunas, it's actually hard to understand. The example works, the City of Zagreb at the level of a year for textbooks that are so often mentioned has singled out 54 million kunas in the past year and generally to be parallel to those two figures. What's important is the following, which is that people are well educated, that it can be done well and what I am, and when I'm a replica of the distinguished secretary of state, Vukkovic gave the topic that you actually have to do, she said that it would be done by the State Statistics Institute, one campaign, that people would know that they would come, that someone would ask them something, there would be a lot of them who wouldn't know how to answer. For example, in 2001 he was a census. When you're a census, you also give information about a series of things, among other things, you've given the owner of agricultural land or you own a forest or something else. Then in that census in 2001, I am co-owner of a forest and I wrote there that I am co-owner with my sister of the woods we inherited. In 2003 or 2004, it was this list that you were talking about in 2003, a young man ringing at my home door as the household is being run by our husband's name, so we're also registered by my husband's name, he comes to my home and says, my husband's name and name, I say that, that's the apartment where he lives, he, did you have a registered forest. And of course I attack him and I say, and I know that my husband has no forest, I say nicely, no matter what woods you've confused, we've got nothing and I send that young man back. Two weeks later, I realized what it was about. So, what do I want to tell you? In order to obtain quality data, not only must there be educated people who will collect these data, but people must be aware that someone will come to them, so there is one limited category here, that someone will come to them, that they will look for certain data, even see what it is because a collection of bad data will give a bad result. And that base on this list of agriculture is one base, which we not only need, that you need, that you need for strategies and everything else, but that's how it will compare to other EU countries. If the data is wrong, so you know what statistics are, statistics are better and data are, better are the results we get better data, so I'd like to do a little comment on everything that's going to happen and there's everything that's going to be asked for. So, there's going to be some data on management, I guess there won't be any problems. About the way agricultural production, about the use of land, about the stock fund, says, management of land manure, irrigation, organic production, aspects of environmental protection, I could, I might say, about some others, but I'll be related to this, a little, a little bit, a few sentences more. So you can see exactly from what's asked, the data you're looking for, and when you read a little bit, when I was preparing for this, I did a little opening up the directive. You can see exactly why something is sought, which are topics, that you are interested in how many agricultural areas we have, how they are managed, how much labour there is, or how much on these agricultural areas, so that some other data will be read out of it, what was in support and what was the result of these aids, and then that, of course, the environmental element, how it is managed by static fertilisers, is in the context of CO2 in reduced CO2 emissions because it is known to be larger production and remains. What with the irrigation system is, in terms of extremes, so what is the result and those who are discussing climate change, it shows that the annual temperature in certain EU countries and the EU itself will be rising to 2050 for Croatia is 2.7 degrees, which is extremely high. So, it's extremely much and then it's this system of irrigation at all, which is also, of course, this aspect of environmental protection. Not only the environmental protection aspect in terms of organic production but also the consequences. Is there a product to use for pure energy, so there's a series of things to read. I think, or life taught me and work taught me that simply if you have a good database, if you have a good existing state, no matter how satisfied you are or dissatisfied, that it can only be a basis for you to continue to do some things and develop. Our interest is, in Croatia, that we have a good current state. It is not Croatia's interest to get the wrong data, so our interest should be to know exactly how many agricultural areas are used, for which the purpose is used, how much organic production we have, how much labor we need for these agricultural areas is to read anything. To read and something that's quite a hit topic at this time, it's little, it's not a little bit, and that's your theme of demographic recovery or revitalization. From this you can therefore read a lot from this data. Therefore, when it comes to the law itself, we will uphold the law, it is correctly made, de facto you are, what everything you have obligations there you have defined. You must indeed define this methodology because this methodology will be extremely important to get the data as quickly as possible and as easily as possible. So, I may be boring, but I note, at all, that one media follow-up, I don't think you're coming, or it's not good that those who do it come two or three times. And then it's good, so we all swear on different e-platforms. And what we have is a characteristic of each sector leading its own, that it's very difficult for us to show each other what we have. These are, this is a list, that is, these data that will be obtained will be extremely important for some other strategies. It will be extremely important when we talk about demographic revitalisation, it will be extremely important when we talk about a strategy that is related to, say, CO2 reduction. So there's a series of things that will be read from this and they'll have to read. Just as it was initially said about our strategy. But so we can do well, so we're still doing it from the strategy, but then we're just getting a kick on action plans. From all this, there will be data for the National Strategy as well as data for action plans for the simple reason that nature does its part. Like when I was discussing the law that was before this, I said that the plant and animal world would adapt to certain other conditions. I often mention something so related, it is absolutely related to the area of construction, we were extremely important maps, a situation that was in Croatia on February 15th, '68. For years, because we compared it to what processes it was. But what was much more important, i.e. what could be from these tickets, so Croatia's video on February 15th, '68. years, you compare and see, that transformation that was made where much of Slavonia was, were agricultural areas that were processed, they were, after they had stopped processing, the foresters were created. And that large amount of agricultural land that really isn't in agricultural function anymore. Therefore, our interest is that those who will be censusors be adequately educated. Our interest is to get as high-quality data as possible, and our interest is to turn these data into strategy and action plans. But also what is at EU level to be comparable to someone else, to make our data comparable to someone else, to simply position ourselves on that map, EU members as an equal participant, and to be a player when it comes to agriculture on that stage of other EU countries without being just someone who sits on the bench and looks at it. In conclusion, we will support this law but this law to get good data requires a very, very lot of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143064	Thank you, too. Now Mrs. Goddess will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143065	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I'll look back on this law on behalf of the HNS Club, and I'll start by saying that the HNS Club will support it, because we think the law is well done. And as far as official statistics are concerned, we all agree that it plays an important role in society, not only because of the census and the identification of certain data but also that these data can be used in quality and decision-making based on these laws. Therefore, this list, which is planned from 1 to 30 June 2020, will collect data for agricultural holdings and will include holdings that have more than 0,40 hectares of used agricultural area, 0.5 livestock units or less than 0,4 hectares of used agricultural area but at least 0,1 hectares of orchards, vineyards or olive groves because we know that this is a different culture, and therefore it is necessary, any part of the nursery because they require special records, areas under vegetables, seed crops and transplants, flowers and ornament plants or mushrooms intended for the market and all bees of the community. So it is planned to be covered somewhere around 98% of agricultural land and as much livestock stock. What is good is that the collected data in the structure of agricultural economies will be comparable at EU level and will also be the basis for planning between the other and the common agricultural policy because it will be comparable to everyone and we will take them forward and use them as such. So we'll use them to make all the strategic documents. The agricultural development strategy itself is in the works but there are now action plans and where it will be very good to see certain data, we may not be aware, or we are not really aware of the real situation in agriculture. Of course, we all advocate strengthening Croatian agriculture, strengthening the CAP, strengthening the village, staying in that village, and we could talk about it as much as we want, but this is not the subject of this law, but this law is the basis for everything that will be passed. Otherwise, I consider it good in this law to be a probationary rule in October 2019. Because there have already been speeches in earlier discussions on the problems that censusors face, or in the collection of such data. And I agree that it takes a very good education of these censusors, that everything that can be administratively collected that the censusors have that data, that their controllers are always at their service with all the answers, and it is good that the law provides that the data can also be provided by a full-time member of the OPG, so not only does the OPG bearer, because it also often knows to be a problem because sometimes the OPG bearer himself has less data from our farmers than someone more experienced who knows all the data and who has long been on that OPG or solves these problems personally. About the price of 34 million kuna, we have already talked about, I do not think that this is a significant amount for these 3,000 participants, which is the censusors, controllers, coordinators, members of the list committees, and that it is important to do a special lesson, or to do well in preparation, and it will certainly be regulated through the regulations and any problems that will be encountered will also be seen through the trial list that will be in October 2019. So it's about important statistics, important data that we're going to collect, which we need to really and wisely use afterwards. Once again, the HNS club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143066	Thank you very much. We move to individual debates, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143067	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. I asked you a question in the replica after your presentation, you didn't answer me, you know that you didn't answer me because I didn't ask you, I didn't ask you why we didn't do it before, but why, I asked why we didn't do it later, so it's very important that the population census is up to us in 2021. However, here I took the effort a little while while my colleagues were discussing and I found a reason, and the reason in Article 5 is because of the EU Regulation of 2018, the number 1091 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on integrated statistics at the level of agricultural holdings and repealing the regulations blah. And there's article 5 that says we have three reference years, one is 2020, one is 2023 and one is 2026. And that's it, OK. Yeah, but that's the answer you were supposed to give me, but it's okay and it's my job to find it, so I answered it myself. However, I still have to say here that it is one very large cost for the Croatian state and now I will say again what I always say because I must mention it, it is not about you, but it is about the government's policy that 90% of our obligations are coming to us now, and I may have gone too far from 90%, but very much of our obligations are coming from the adoption of European legal legislation, as well as in this case and it is about 34 million kuna, which is big money. And I responsibly argue that in nine months, it means that April is spent, or 10 months, in April 2021, the census could be done the same job, the same job that's almost identical. Because if you haven't met, the State Statistics Service that will run this business he does an almost identical list of agricultural households, almost identical. It could've spread a little bit, the biggest cost is the censusors themselves who when they're on the ground they'll ask three more questions and the story's over. So I understand that we have committed ourselves, so when we enter the EU that we will listen to them, it is likely that the Germans and the French have adapted it to their censuses and, if they are not, the money is being dumped in a frenzy. 34 million kuna is a lot of money, so let's do some damage work. I know that neither you nor the Prime Minister Plenkovic will give up on the EU and that we will make this list of agriculture, but let it be your task now, you are communicating with the State Statistics Office. I don't know if you can, if I can use your data. I unfortunately don't think it can be used because the situation is recorded on March 31st 2021, that's fixed. So, yeah, but here's the thing, maybe some kind of, I don't know, get some benefit out of it because I think it's a waste of money. It means that Croatian lobbyists in the European Council, i.e. in the European Parliament were right, then they could say OK, let the first reference year be 2021. Why? Because it suits the Croatian state because things can be carried out in parallel. There are about 3,000 people participating in the census, the census includes nearly 17 thousand people, so it could be combined and the job could be done and the money saved. I think you've figured out what this is about. Well, be that lobbyist of yours and the Prime Minister's, too, to look ahead at Croatia's interest, or where it can be saved because it could be saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143068	Thank you, too. There's no replica, is there? Since you do not have a replica, then we will end this part before taking a stand with the individual debate of Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed promoters. When we talk about the proposal of the Agriculture List Act 2020, it is impossible not only to refer to statistics and what this law will cover but also to the situation in which our agriculture is currently located and what it should be, or what Croatian citizens would like it to be. So we are witnessing that we are living in a country where we are going to live with a list of agriculture or certain things that will be carried out in 2020 to reach one defeating data. And that is that every year, Croatia is increasingly producing agricultural products, that our OPGs are working less and less and less and less, and that we are essentially the opposite of the resources that we have and which we could put into operation almost and not use at all. We do not use the money we receive from the EU and from EU funds properly, very intransparently, here we see now and the last case that happened with and with, and with certain resources received by people and vice presidents, say the Bandic mayor's party in the city, in the municipality of Radoboj in Krapina-Zagorje County, this affair came out a few days ago, means very much doubt, very much intransparency, and in fact very little benefits for our fellow citizens, or those who are dealing with the OPG. We will get some data, but once again I tell you, we will be very disappointed when we finally see and compare what we have today, how many farmers in Croatia deal with this business, how much this process is going on and how much food we end up importing into the Republic of Croatia and how our tourism, which, by the way, is being said this year in problems relative to the previous years because there has been a border where there is simply no more going on, but despite this, of all the billions that come into Croatia and imports of certain money, we spend a lot of money on food that we imported and help some other economies. Even today, it is very difficult for our people to understand how, for example, it is cheaper to go to a foreign trade chain from Germany than it is from Croatia. Whether the salary in Germany is lower than in Croatia is not. For example, is production cheaper, sure that in some ways it is very likely because of incentives that much more efficient Germany, Germany uses than it does in the Republic of Croatia. So we can look at statistics one way or another, we can also support this law, we can enable it to be done in a scientific, quality, very up-to-date way, but what we measure in the end will give devastating data. Because in this minister and ministry, we have more affairs to deal with than agriculture. So at this point in time when you look at more the minister deals with the way he will fulfill his property card and think about how he'll justify whether his house has 300 or 600 or 150 square meters and where he gets the money for all this expensive because it's a fundamental question, you have no responsibilities, you have nothing to do with how it was created, you have a rich aunt in Australia who died or a grandmother in the United States, these are the questions we end up being satisfied, or satisfied by people in certain parties by the fact that the Commission of conflict of interest is going to adopt a certain rule, the fine of 4 or 10,000 kuna will be paid and ultimately nothing to anyone. So on that side, as long as we have the people who lead here, that big resistor responsible in the way they lead it, in which they have certain problems that they simply can't justify otherwise we'll have, we'll have a situation in agriculture that's working today. So, of course, statistics and the National Statistics Institute should do their job, but we should also make sure that, as counterpart Miro Bulj said earlier, that we do not sell to people empty stories that tell about exporting milk to China or that we will become not know what large exporters of this or that in agriculture when we simply cannot meet the basic needs of what we need in the Republic of Croatia or what we should produce to satisfy the space, to satisfy our citizens and to satisfy and to satisfy tourists who come to the Republic. So, huge money is available, the possibilities are great but there are even bigger affairs that are pressing HDZ, which are pressing Prime Minister Plenkovic, who are pressing Minister Tolusic and, of course, that the result is what he is and will be very much defeated when we compare what we did in the 1990s, '95s, 2000s or 2019s. Trends are constantly negative, and when it comes to the production of milk and meat and all other agricultural products, it does not need to satisfy us whether there are OPGs or not, it is important whether we produce more or produce less. So, I would be most fortunate if we had several large industries that would employ and produce much more than to be satisfied with whether, through a specific EU programme, we would share with someone 50,000 kuna who would then spend at some point, and ultimately, the great benefits would be nothing. Slavonia is extinct, people, 100,000 people have moved out of Slavonia in the past 2 years, so that's one disastrous, devastating data, and when it comes, when the list of agriculture comes in 2020, you'll see how the entire villages live there now and how the whole village stays empty, the only ones who, moreover, may have some benefits are those who, the buyers who, who took the land and took certain fees for it, and basically do not produce anything. The only thing that's going on right now is what the ministry is very agile about is pressing certain leaders of the local self-government unit to miss, to leave the country to the former Agrokor concern, now who has new owners under conditions that this 90-year-old concert has received from the Republic of Croatia, which are immeasurably, unmeasurably more favourable than those who have been or are available to all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, let's be honest with ourselves, let's say we have to make a quality way of collecting data and set certain deadlines that, which, which are important for this, for this law, but we have to be aware that no lists, no records, unless we use those data in a quality way, will allow our agriculture to develop in the way that our people should or should have cheap food, quality food, that our tourists buy Croatian products, and not import, and that we are not joking, but that's really a joke because I even sometimes think that Prime Minister Plenkovic made a joke, that he didn't seriously mean to export milk to China. So that's, I think it was a joke and it just wasn't something he meant seriously, I think he's lost it because we're simply aware that the quantities, or what is produced today in the Republic of Croatia, we can't meet our own needs, let alone to export to other markets that, as far as humans are concerned, are much more demanding by the amount of people than the Croatian market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143070	Mr. Lenart's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143071	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague, unfortunately, 3. Ministry management, no law that has moved towards forward agricultural production, agricultural production has failed in all sectors, every day you put new obstacles to farmers, piles of paper to meet, between these you may force them with this list where you will buy relevant data for those countries that do not want strong Croatian agriculture so that they can easily destroy what little is left. Countries in the environment in order to preserve their countries' agriculture will normally work against agriculture policy in the Republic of Croatia, and you help them fat. Unfortunately, the Agricultural Land Act doesn't live for you, the Agriculture Act isn't worth anything, it's empty, you've written a Regulation on the use of agricultural land where you're going to take land to farmers, you're doing everything against agriculture, this isn't worth anything to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143072	Thanks, time, time, thanks. Mr. Maras, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143073	Thank you very much. It's clear to everyone, everyone sees it, everybody knows it and everybody says it now. So I don't hear a single commendation. She was very optimistic and the announcement and the first part, the first year of Mr Tolusic's term in his run-in with optimism, piano moves, spoke as if there was going to be a Renaissance in agriculture. Unfortunately, all the data show exactly the opposite, now we haven't heard from him for some time since he entered these huge affairs, he no longer appears in HS, in public very little, and on this side I don't expect at all until the end of the term any moves that will allow Croatian farmers to benefit. So this will be a lost time, a year and a half until legitimacy is restored again, and while people who trust citizens come to us in a position to decide on Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143074	Mr. Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143075	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you said well in the debate, the state and the ministry already have certain data, but little and nothing seems to make positive shifts in agricultural production, so here's the best example that we have a State Statistics Office somewhere around, over a million and 500 000 hectares of state agricultural land in the record. The Ministry of Agriculture through ARCOD and other records say it is in the production function of about a million and 100,000 hectares, some 400, 500 000 hectares missing and nothing seems to put the land into production function. It's been two years. No new tender for the lease and concession of agricultural land is available, no aid is provided to agricultural producers, under the cover of savings the advisory service has been abolished, the Agricultural Land Agency has been abolished, and more than a year the commissioners have been waiting for consent to the programmes available to state agricultural land, this is our picture and I hope that this list will show the sadness of Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143076	Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143077	Thank you very much. You said well, under the cover of savings, because there are no savings, they have abolished and it is not the only agency, nor the only body of the state administration that has been abolished as if something were going to be saved, and at the end of the transfer to the ministry, not only is it not saved, but they have, but they have also accumulated as to the number of employees and costs incurred by these employees and these former agencies, or jobs they are carrying out, meaning not that there has been no savings but an even greater cost. Well, the best example is an inspectorate that would have five hundred more inspectors than it was supposed to have in that old facility. So that's it, you just said the cover right. So the cover is that there's something to be done, that something's being saved, and basically the opposite. It doesn't hurt, it's spent more than it's ever been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143078	Thank you. Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143079	A fellow Maras, a real peasant who plows his nick, used to have no good tractors, so we turned around and watched if the nick was straight or walked like an ox. So we're at the end when we get to the fields then we say, well, this ridge was good. I wish your government had made one analysis of your rule when the minister was a Jakovina who greatly improved Croatian agriculture especially with the incentives we had to return and the pens and those he as a minister of agriculture assigned to you and funeral societies just don't know what. When we remember all the thousands of acres of hilly, mountain-mounted pastures, those of Podokin's cows, since we have to turn villages into cows, so cows pasted all the tops of rural Croatia, the hilly area as if we were in Austria and they were probably the ones that got high.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143080	Time, Mr. Culey, time, I apologize. Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143081	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey, for causing Mr. Glasnović's loud applause almost merits not even commenting on what you said. ... Because Mr. Glasnović is clapping at you, I don't know why, but what you said doesn't fit any facts at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So on this side your tendency and unfortunately some other representatives in this Croatian Assembly are exclusively oriented to what happened. Which is now they don't care at all. I'd like to say we talk about what's now and we can talk about the past. Let's say I'm very sorry that some fled the assembly and kept the government alive because now they wouldn't have any Andrej Plenkovic or they would have to fight them in the elections just had to stay and vote for Maric's shift and it would be okay, they wouldn't have any problems at all. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143082	Thank you, the weather is inadmissible. I know you have a lot to say, Mr. Maras, but time's up, time's up. Let's continue the debate and now it's time for the Club of Representatives of Most who will deliver the final word and here Mr. Bulj will perform on behalf of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143084	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretaries with their associates as regards the very Agricultural List Act itself, of course, should not be opposed and it is good to have a list and to work on it from these statistical indicators as I said on behalf of the club, to create policies in essence to direct how to manage. However, I would once again warn here about what is very important, 1/3 of the agricultural land in Croatia is not being processed, it is I think a key problem, we are always talking about irrigation, and today we have a huge part, very few surfaces irrigated, these are key problems for us to be able at all to be competitive to bring our village back to life. The third very difficult thing is that in this village and such agricultural land we have left for sale since 1.1.2019, foreigners, foreign natural and legal persons can buy agricultural land until in Hungary legal and natural persons can't buy land from Croatia, which means we are unequal, which somehow you in the ministry would have to find that way to now move Slavonia and other areas of protection from cheap agricultural land sale because we know that this is a resource of the importance of the national interest of agricultural land. So, we're now brought into one huge problem, we don't have competitive agriculture, we don't have a producer, we don't have irrigation systems, we don't have technology to survive, and now we've passed another law, recently, a few months ago where since 1.1. agricultural sales, i.e. the purchase of agricultural land can be made by foreign and natural legal persons. And it is not equal throughout the EU, I am exempting you from Hungary again, and you know that a referendum has been held in Hungary and that there is no sale of agricultural land, and we should protect the agricultural land will buy us a whole of Slavonia for small money and the rest. Unfortunately, because this agricultural holding has been emptied in most parts of the Republic of Croatia. And very importantly, for me and what's most important, to be more realistic, it's not nice to say that the Ministry of Agriculture on its website and the Government's website put the notice that it's going in, that we're going to export, that it's a signed protocol with China and that we're going to export milk and dairy products to China. When we don't have at this point, we're all witnessing that we've come to about 5,000 of these family economies dealing with dairy production with the former 64,000. So it's not a good message that we're going to export milk to China and throw it at the government's pages when it was a visit to the government. I would like it to be so, only if in this, in another bush lies a rabbit, that through Mlekara Sinj we do not export Serbian milk, because that is how he came to the market with a fictitious company opened in Sinj, he came to the market in Croatia and thus to the EU. Because I don't see right now that we're ready to export the milk when we don't have not for our own purposes.../incomprehensible/... 20, 30% of our needs, so we don't have enough to say now for kindergartens that we're going to buy from our farmers the milk we don't know if their children's kindergarten needs would be covered, let alone primary schools or let alone our entire population. No agriculture, no rich villages, it's been repeated 1,000 times and nothing's new, there's no rich country and there's no city. And we have currently 2/3 of Croatia empty and this is the key problem of Croatia, and these strategies from this law, which will have a statistical indicator, strategies, planning documentation for irrigation, planning documentation, national programmes, so I don't think I know how much this building is going to spend on all these programs and how much money is spent on it all that's been promised. I'm saying that in the future we have to change these things, we can no longer make it go away, we're forced, regardless of the political option, this is no longer a question of the SDP, or the HSS, or the Most, or the HDZ, I don't know who. We must now be forced to have a people in the Republic of Croatia at all, to have citizens in 2/3, because we do not take certain steps that the parties we serve will be our own purpose. Therefore, we have a serious business ahead of us, and I expect that the time has come for someone to see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143085	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, the State Secretary, Ms. Marija Vučković, will state the final, final position of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143086	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed representatives and MPs, my colleague, first of all, thank everyone for the proposals and constructive debate, and also as far as the agriculture list law itself is concerned, I will not, in the final word of course, repeat its foundations, basics, goals, periods, just as it was a matter of information that the State Statistics Institute will be doing a full information campaign by the end of this year, that already in the process of making the slogans, the visual identity of the website, that the letters will go towards all agricultural economies and I believe that people will be well prepared and do this demanding list in the right time and in full as the methodology prescribes. As for other open topics, which came from this one law, I would first like to say that this law is not the basis for a strategy for the development of agriculture, that the strategy for the development of agriculture which was last made in 2002 ordered by this Ministry of Agriculture, last 10 months signed an agreement that it fully understands the allegations of large strategic documents which are not used, which are in drawers and which did not produce fruit, so we did a first detailed project task, which is why we planned to develop an action plan and in this project task which includes the strategy and action plan also in this plan agreed and immediately 4 pilot of the testing project, some interesting projects that will come from work on the strategy and on the action plan. The document will be implemented, concrete, and the full serious diagnostics have already been made, the results will soon be presented. I deeply believe it will be a document that will come upon full support from both the political and social public in the Republic of Croatia. As for the rural development, funding and support programmes, there is no longer any point in repeating the situation with the negotiations and spending of the programme for which the managing body is the Ministry of Agriculture. I will briefly say that the rural development programme today is the first agreement and consumption programme, that the operational programme for fishing and maritime development is not, but it is with the fastest growth, so I believe that both will be well agreed, and that this list of agriculture and other statistical research done by the State Department of Statistics and the Ministry of Agriculture will show, independently of this, it is a reference period, the normal period is 3 years, that it will show that this will have an impact on our Croatian agriculture. As far as irrigation is concerned, unfortunately, we have a defeated percentage of irrigated agricultural areas in the Republic of Croatia, some say something below 2%, some say 2.2%, there are documents 10, 15, and 20 years, and we may know more about it than I do, but we agree that we should speed it up and although we are not the competent water management ministry, we are very much involved in this problem, and today there is one session of this time for irrigation, and the very Ministry of Agriculture has concrete proposals that relate under 1 to the acceleration of the dynamics and outcomes of the consent of the construction of public water infrastructure for irrigation, under 2nd to the implementation of such projects on parcels, meaning motivation for land users because the project does not only end with the construction of public infrastructure and ultimately, we are working on a programme that will motivate our farmers to actually use and irrigation systems. Why hasn't anyone done this before us, strategy, irrigation, rural development and consumer bargaining, etc., it still doesn't make any sense to comment too much, too much. As for the protocol signed with NR China, I can't tell how much it will affect exports, I can't, we'll do our best in half a year or a year, at this point I can't. However, it should be pointed out that this is a protocol that removes current barriers to the export of our agricultural products, in this case milk and milk products, is an emphasis on dairy products that we have good, which create more added value, and we look forward to this protocol because unfortunately it is one 6.g. We've signed it, we've opened one market, we've signed other countries, we're simply removing obstacles, there's no reason not to do that when we're already exposed to imports, so let's not have an obstacle to export. Finally, I will thank you all once again, and here I hope that this statistical new base and what we are doing now with diagnostics and strategy will be an excellent basis for a new common agricultural policy, strategic national and legal after 2020. which will not have a menu of 64 operations, 36 sub-measures and 16 measures from the needle to the locomotive, but that we will be able to concentrate on what our farmers really need, while respecting this important restriction relating to 30% of investment in environmental policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143087	Thank you, too. The replica was requested by Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143088	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I hope this huge media campaign will not happen, and the Ministry of Agriculture is doing a lot of these media campaigns according to that model "half-drinking, half-drinking". All the lists come out and teach us, the census last year taught us that eight Klingons live in the Republic of Croatia. I, I hope you didn't understand me? The last census showed that eight Klingons live in the Republic of Croatia, so eight people are declared Klingons, right? I think this list of agriculture will show that we also have black swan breeders, so they might get support and strengthen because I see that the demand for black swans exists and that's a term that's been used lately, so there's a development of agriculture going on, but it's sad that it doesn't contribute to anything and we're like, The agricultural land died. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143089	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143090	Thank you very much. Dear secretary, for reasons and answers, of course we can't go back and things can't be missed, but the fact is, and you confirm that it's a strategy of documentation that was both inconclusive and brought our village and peasants where they are. But I warned of the basic problem, it's a sale of agricultural land from 1.1., it's a huge problem that can cause cheap purchases of our agricultural land, which Croatian citizens can't in Hungary, and Hungarians can, for example. We're here, we're not even and it's a strategic interest to protect agricultural land, if I can Hungarians, I don't see why I can't Croats where there's empty Slavonia and there's empty Dalmatia and Lika, therefore, I don't want much about swans, I don't believe that Kliman is now, he's blue, I see that the blue shirt has, very black, has bald, has all kinds of swans, but I would more about this topic of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143091	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143092	Here, I'm sorry I didn't make this important remark, which I forgot to answer. As for us, therefore, we will use our right to extend the transitional period of 3 years, we are preparing it, it will need a good explanation, and as for the interests of foreigners for Croatian agricultural land, of course it is in our interest to keep it in domestic hands, I absolutely support the view that we should all have equal rights in the EU, but I also think, I also want to look at statistics, so let's say that the current interest of foreigners in agricultural land in the Republic is approximately 0.015%. I said that we should protect, that I showed the current statistics that don't have to be long-term, of course, that we should be careful and that we're going to ask for a delay in that transitional period. And of course we all need the same rights. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143093	Thank you, no dialogue, no dialogue, please from the bench and finally Mr. Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143094	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, will the agricultural list be carried out in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or only in certain parts? And why would I ask that? The law on defence against the fight, the defence season from the fight began on 15.4. The missiles were not acquired, the supplies of rockets from western Slavonia with missile stations were transferred by all decision, I don't know who, the State Meteorological Institute or the Ministry, all to the east, from Gradište to Ilock. I am pleased to protect agricultural production in the area, but why there are no rockets in Gorica, Vrbje, Cernik, and these days there has been a fight there. Whose decision is it, and why is there no law on defense against fighting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143095	Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143096	I can only answer that the 2020 Agricultural List Act will take place. to spend, of course, throughout the area, that it will include 98% of the agricultural area and livestock stock used, and that in this year, I forgot to say, there will be 4 counties and probationaryly covered. I don't have any information on what you told me. I can check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143097	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143098	Final proposal of the Agricultural List Act 2020, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 648. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would once again ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture of Honored Tugomir Majdak to be shown about the amendments submitted. The first is the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143099	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143100	It becomes an integral part of the law. And we have another also committee on legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143101	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143102	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3 to the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143103	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143104	And he becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment 4 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143105	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143106	And it becomes an integral part of the law, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Agriculture List Act 2020, please vote. I find that most 80 votes for and 6 abstentions have been passed the Agriculture List Act 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143107	Point of the agenda to be followed: - Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2018. The applicant shall be the Commissioner for Information under Art. 60. The law on the right to access information. The debate was conducted by the Information and Information and Media Committee, the government delivered an opinion. You asked, before I give my word to Mr. Zoran Piculjan, the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Peja Grbin asked, he asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This item of the agenda falls within the competence of, therefore, this item of the agenda falls within the competence of two working bodies, one committee which you have listed, however, the other working body whose competence this belongs to is the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system HS. The reason is more than clear. The right to access information is constitutionally governed. 38. The Constitution of the Today, a meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS was scheduled to discuss this item of the agenda. I'll remind you it's an article. 44. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, which was amended a year ago by the Working Body of HS, defined that the Working Body of HS discusses reports and rules of procedure of legal persons having public authority. And it is also envisaged that only exceptional reports, including that of the Commissioner for Information, are also discussed at the HS session, so not only at the HS session, but also at the HS session. Since the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS, in which with all due respect to all other colleagues, and I hope that they will not be offended, possibly the most important working body of HS, has failed to discuss this item of the agenda. Since, the fact that we're discussing this agenda point now or in a week's time, it won't do any crucial, crucial injury, and I hope that we won't accept our colleague as an observation because I want to discuss this in more detail, I ask that this point be postponed, for debate I used the form of a pause on behalf of the club because formally [[Intruder: Thank you]] We'll just ask [[Intruder: Thank you]] pause But if you decide to take a break, there will be no need. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143109	Thank you very much. No, I'll give you a break. I remind you, this dilemma of yours will be resolved after your party colleague Hajdash Doncic, but I remind you that in the only time, this time, I have never said until now when your side was in power, we have lifted the obligation of the parent committees to discuss some points, but I will not solve this problem, but my colleague Hajdash Doncic, and I will allow you to rest until 14 hours and 12 minutes. Thank you. MEETING IN 14.02 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143110	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14:12 HOURS]] I am sorry that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has not held a debate on access to information for 2018. It was carried out by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Government delivered Opinion, and yet I call on Mr. Zoran Piculjana,... to give an additional explanation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, fellow Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143111	Vice President. Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am honored to present a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2018 submitted by the Commissioner for Information in accordance with Article. The 60th century is the same law. I would also point out that the Law on the right of access regulates the right of users to access information owned by public authorities as their open data suitable for re-use, their participation in the process of adopting regulations and general acts, as the public of the work of the collegiate bodies. This is the report 5 in a row submitted by the Commissioner for Information as an independent and independent body to HS, and is also the report relating to the last year of the first elected Commissioner's term of office. This year, the obligation to submit the report covered 5,797 bodies of the public authorities entered in the instinctive list of public authorities. It is a fundamental assessment that public authorities better fulfil their regulatory powers, which is reflected in a number of bodies that have submitted an annual report, almost 84% of them, a larger share of the body around 90% that have appointed information officer and a larger number of bodies that have their own website. Since, on a very wide scale, the very broad circle of the body of the obligor's authority to apply the law through the state administration body, the unit of local and regional self-government, to veterinary clinics, kindergartens and fire departments, it is clear that the bodies also have very different capacities for the application of this law, and therefore its level of compliance with the obligations laid down in this law is different. As regards the decision on requests for access to information, a slightly smaller request was received at the level of the public authority in 2018, some 18 thousand, unlike in 2017 when there were 22, over 22 thousand. It is also significant that nearly half of the bodies that submitted the report did not have any requests for access to information. The cause of this should be sought in an extremely wide-ranging circle of the Law on the right to access information. Among the authorities that received the largest number of requests in 2018, similar to previous years, the Croatian Waters, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Justice, the City of Zagreb, the Croatian Agricultural Agency, stands out. 17 108 or almost 95% were resolved within the legal period, indicating a continuous high level of solution to the requirement. In 83% of resolved requests, full or partial access to information is possible, which also corresponds with data from previous years. I think we can be content with this high percentage. In the case of denied requests for access to information, the maximum number refers to an assessment by the public authority that the requested information is not considered to be information or is limited to the protection of personal data or that it is the abuse of rights by users. Special attention in the report is given to the fundamental protection function of the Commissioner, resolving the complaints of the users. The commissioner received slightly less complaints than in 2017, 1010 of them, out of which 77% of all complaints were resolved. It continues to worry about the large proportion of complaints made for the silence of the administration, i.e. not addressing requests for access to information. They're up to 48%. The largest number of complaints were made to the conduct of units of local and regional self-government and state administration bodies, around 37% of all complaints. When an analysis of the legality of the conduct of the public authority in information access cases is made, it is evident that public authorities continue to make more mistakes than they act in accordance with the law, and this indicates the percentage of the public authority's repealed decisions of 56%. To the most extent, the bodies were wrongly and illegally using rights abuse institutes by users, protection of personal data, business secrets, and that the information required is not information. The share of the illegality of the reluctant solutions, although in decline, remains worrying. This indicates that the continued training carried out by the Commissioner's Office is necessary and their impact is measurable, although not sufficient. 300 administrative disputes were launched in 2018, with an increase of as much as 72% compared to the previous year. The High Administrative Court, whether it was a body or user complaint, confirmed the Commissioner's solutions in 91% of cases. However, I must point out that 42% of complaints before the High Administrative Court have been initiated for the silence of the Commissioners, which points to the need to further strengthen the capacity of the Information Commissioner's Office in order to act on the complaints of the users within the time limit set. I find it important to point out that 51%, almost 52% of the total number of administrative disputes launched, was initiated by one single user. As part of the function of protecting and monitoring the right to access and re-use information, the Commissioner shall monitor and monitor the implementation of the law by carrying out inspection controls. Twenty-six comprehensive complex direct inspection controls have been carried out in public authorities and two indirect overall monitoring of the website. During the reporting period, the Commissioner acted to the greatest extent proactively, affirmatively, educationally and preventively, and the power of punishment was used exclusively in the case of frequent and continuous violations of the law. With this in mind, it is necessary to reiterate the need to revise the sanctioning mechanism for non-execution of judicial decisions and decisions of the Commissioner for Information. Infringement law and the mechanism it contains in this specific area has proved ineffective, which then puts it to the test and full implementation of the law on access to information. The second important segment of the body's behaviour towards the law refers to the proactive publication of information on websites. Based on the information provided in the reports, which will correspondence the findings of indirect and direct inspection controls by the Commissioners, there are significant deviations in the scope of the proactive published information in the continuous increase. Information relating to the organisation of the body, general acts and decisions of the body is most available, while information relating to financial transparency and the provision to the public of work, with the exception of that information to be published under the Public Procurement Act, shall be published to the minimum. During 2018, the Commissioner gave special attention to the monitoring of the transparency of 156 local units, counties, cities and municipalities and 69 agencies, institutions, funds and centres, and the basis of which found that most only partially meet the legal obligation to publish information proactively. It has therefore been established that significant efforts must be made to increase openness, transparency in the allocation of grants to non-profit organisations, in tenders and public calls, as well as in the publication of public data working and decision making by formal authorities is only 22% of the body of units of local and regional self-government publishing and indicating the time and place of holding meetings. The publication of open data as a prerequisite for their reusing and creating a new social value also records modest progress. The public work of the public authorities is important because of the possibility of active participation of citizens in the control of work and business and participation in the adoption of important acts. When it comes to involving decision-making processes, I note that a significant part of the efforts made by the Commissioner and his office are being put into analytical reviews regarding the implementation of the consultation with the public. From year to year, we find better results in terms of the share of acts for which consultation was conducted at national level. In 2018, it was about 71.33%, where consultations were conducted for 100% of the legal acts published in the National Journal. Positive movements may be made when monitoring the publication of the consultation plan, with more successful authorities at central state level again. The quality of the consultation process is not yet satisfactory. Namely, the time limits of the consultation have been observed most of the time below the legal deadline, during 2018, a smaller share of the acts for which the consultation was conducted within a legal period than in earlier years, while the average number of days of consultation for all acts has been raised for 24 days, therefore, below the legal deadline. Reports on the consultation carried out are largely not published, and when it comes to responses to citizens' comments, we note a multiple increase in comments that are only responsible for being received, above 30%. At the same time at local level, a large majority of consultations conducted without any comments received, which also shows guidance for future action and local authorities, as well as the Commissioner and his office, which oversees the process. All of these findings were pointed out by the users through the submission of the presentations to the Commissioner for Information. It is extremely important to strengthen the anti-corruption climate and affirmation of legal certainty, continue to work on the development of a culture of transparency among officials, those who implement this law, as well as managers and also among the leaders of the public authorities, and through daily interinstitutional cooperation. We stress this in particular, and we will do it systematically and in time that follows in our education and other promotional activities. In 2018, for example, we held 29 trainings for employees and 8 more for users, and in 2019 as a particularly important target group, we will include young people in our education, which is what we are already doing, motivate them to ask, to participate in the processes of creating and making decisions. Finally, the work of the Commissioner's Office, with a detailed view of the tasks carried out, is shown in the specific chapter. I will mention that with a better understanding of the right to access information and standardisation of body behaviour, it has been continued with the creation of guidelines for handling and as if, with the other two very important projects, one is strengthening the capacity of public authorities, associations, media and citizens to implement the Law on Access to Information with the aim of strengthening the capacity of key stakeholders to access information, and the other is a project that has been implemented in Montenegro, strengthening the capacity of the Personal Data Protection Agency and free access to information with the Personal Data Protection Agency and free access to information from Montenegro and the EU delegation in Montenegro. Finally, the report also contains concrete proposals for the removal of detected irregularities and shortcomings, aimed primarily at continuous communication and education of information officers, as well as other officials involved in these procedures. Targeted tailored education for certain categories of public authority bodies, but also for users, emphasising the responsibility of leaders and management officers in strengthening transparency and access to information, carrying out targeted inspection controls, the obligation to sanction public authorities that are frequently breaking the law, the development of the observed weaknesses of the existing legislative framework and the proposal to improve it. The general assessment is that the situation in relation to the transparency and openness of public authorities is gradually improving, both in the direction of strengthening the publication of information on the Internet and in the quality of public authorities' behaviour as requested by users. Overall, public authorities become more responsible for their legal obligations, and citizens gradually become more aware of their right to access information and how it is implemented. Systematic and harmonised removal of identified weaknesses and irregularities in the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, access to information from the public authority... and will apply, and the application of this important Constitution of guaranteed law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you for your attention, and I'm at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143112	Thank you, too. On your opening explanation or additional explanation we have 4 replicas, colleague Bauk, colleague Sladolev, colleague Glavak and colleague Bulj. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143113	Thank you. Commissioner, of course, I would like to show my support for your report, and I will use this business form of replica to apostrophe of a situation that is increasingly happening in local self-government units, and we have now had a similar case at the state level, which is obstructing the business provisions on council matters. Although council issues often come down to a political debate, a large number of these issues are in fact a classic requirement for access to information and city, county and state authorities are very often obstructing this type of issue, and lately they are trying to challenge the right of members of representative bodies to ask questions as citizens, saying that they are not subject to the Law on the right to access to information. I would ask that on a public scene as you did in the guidelines confirm, therefore, that members of the representative bodies have the right to ask questions as well as all other citizens in the planned... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143114	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143115	Here, as you mentioned about, already since 2000, this problem has been observed already in 2016, in '17, and the Commissioner and her office have drawn up one of the guidelines for which the issue is being regulated. The question is, in principle, such that these guidelines have answered almost, I would say irresponsibly to your question by saying the following, and it seems to me that this stems from the Croatian legal system, that the councils, by special regulations, are obliged by the executive bodies to provide information based on specific regulations, their rules of procedure, and that is why they should not be brought into question in an orderly society, but should not bring about a question and this other, practice, what is the practice, and what is then derived from these practices, why council members do so as citizens. They have such a right of esteem and they often use it under the same course, under then by.../incomprehensible/... like all other citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143116	Thank you. Replica number two, colleague of the Iceman's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143117	I have a question that I also referred to your predecessor, as regards the Croatian Football Federation. I asked your predecessor a question, she gave me a positive statement on the matter. Does the Croatian Football Federation therefore have to announce which parliamentary representatives and ministers went to the World Cup in Russia? Since laws concerning the Croatian Football Federation are passed in this high body. They justified the Croatian Football Federation that it is not a public body and is not financed from the state budget, but since in this high body laws concerning the Croatian Football Federation are passed I think it is necessary and necessary for them to announce which parliamentary representatives and ministers traveled to the World Cup on their cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143118	Thank you. Here's your answer. You can do it whenever you want. You're just not in my sight. I'm sorry, my colleague Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Two questions only. So, we all want you to do it every year in the report, and so do your predecessor and we here in the Croatian Parliament, to make public authorities proactive in publishing their information, but 789 public authorities, for example, do not have a website. Only if you know maybe by heart which bodies we're all talking about, and I think it's a worrying number of 155 lawsuits filed by the same user, so maybe in the context of what we're all talking about, and that's possible to see if you've been thinking in that direction about avoiding these situations. So 155 lawsuits filed by the same user which I think is worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143120	The next replica of my colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143121	Thank you very much. Here I am, like my colleague, Bauk, at first I'm just going to ask a question. delivered to the Commissioner, that here in the Croatian Parliament the MPs, we MPs on our issues to the assembly, the bodies do not receive a public answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so we wait for 3, 4, 5 months and more, we must warn and of course she knows what the relationship to the council is with the county or city, simply and mainly because of what is the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government so on. Lex to the sheriff is so strengthened that this parliamentary democracy is literally analized and that sheriffial expression of city and municipality governance is much more pronounced than ever before. The key question is public procurement and public procurement, where what is happening in Dalmatia, Slavonski novine and vice versa, is that of setting up and that is corruption in this entire system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143122	Thank you. Does a committee reporter, a colleague of Sunny Glavak, want to take her word for it? Yes, so Sunchana Glavak president of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On 26 June, the Committee on Information, Information and Media held a report on the implementation of the Law on Right of Information for 2018, submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Commissioner for Information Act of 28 March 2019. The Committee discussed this report as a parent working body. At the time of the debate, of course, we also had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report in question. I must say that the Commissioner has initially explained this in an exhaustive manner, as he has done today to the members of the board, all the most important things in the report, and also in the discussion on the board, attention has been drawn, for example, to the quality of public consultation with the interested public in which very few objections are accepted. A question has also been raised, which is heard today, but which is also in the record, which is with those units in the local area or regional self-government that do not fulfil their obligations under this law, and it is responsible that they will firstly work on education, and if it does not produce results, there will be possible sanctions and supervision, and it will be reported to the Ministry of Administration. Following the discussion, the Committee concluded, in accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it had decided to propose an HS conclusion that a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2018 would be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143124	Thank you, too, and I'm opening a debate, and here you are, colleagues of the Sun Glavak. You're the first. A colleague of Glavak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The HS presented a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, and the report is based on data collected from 4856 public authorities and 84% of the 5797 bodies that are on the day of 21 February of this year to be bonded with the delivery of the report. The bodies of public authorities are being updated almost on a daily basis, which I would like to commend immediately and the Commissioner's office, so we have exact figures on how many public authorities we are talking about. Of those nearly 6000 bodies, 558 at the time of the processing of the report had no information on the information officer, which is a positive shift compared to the previous year. At that time, he did not appoint 726 of the 5859 bodies. Despite continued efforts and calls on public authorities to fulfil the stated legal obligation and to make the data better in all groups of PPPs than last year. Information officers have not yet appointed 148 fire departments, 68 municipal companies, 53 tourist communities, in the smaller part of the kindergarten 39, 39 veterinary clinics, 37 homes for children, older and powerless and other institutions, companies and associations. In view of the type of public authority, as last year, all state authorities have submitted reports on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2018, as has been done by all 115 courts and judicial authorities. Of the 576 units of local regional or regional self-government, the report provided them with 564, 12 local units failed to fulfil the legal obligation and the town of Vrgorac, and the municipality of Bukovlje, Čeminac, Karlobag, Milna, Orebić, Povljana, Rovisce, etc., the number of local units not delivering the report is gradually reduced, 2016. For example, 18 did not do so, in 2017 16, however, it was observed that some municipalities regularly ignore the obligation to deliver reports, such as Ceminac, Karlobag, Milna, Zrinski Topolovac, etc. Reports submitted pursuant to the legal status of the body, state bodies 18100, state administration bodies 52100, units of local or regional self-government 564, courts and judicial authorities 115, agencies and other legal entities with public authority 71, etc. During 2018 the authorities received a total of 18092 requests, of which 17699 are requests for access to information and 393 requests for re-use of information. Following last year's increase in the total number of applications, as the Commissioner pointed out in 2018, there was a decline and that was almost 19%. 2563 authorities have not received any request, and the applications submitted relate to them over 2000, therefore, to the bodies which have resolved the requests. Most of them or most, the most required under the Law on Access to Information came to the City of Zagreb 361, Croatian waters over 800, it would be interesting to see what concerns, Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning 249, MUP 203, Ministry of Justice, and in turn the Croatian Agricultural Agency, the City of Split, the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, Ministry of Science and Education. The Commissioner also said something about complaints, in 2018 the Commissioner received a total of 1010 complaints, and they concern resolving requests for access to information for re-use of information. Those figures relate only to complaints made or delivered to the Commissioner as a second-degree body and do not cover those complaints made by the first-degree body which it has only solved. The comparison of data from previous years shows that the number of complaints in the decline compared to 2017 is more than 16% or, however, a large number of complaints made compared to the 2014-2016 level when the annual number of complaints was moving on average around 640. I also said something about the replica about the pro-active use of information, so according to the body itself, that information on average publishes about 3800 bodies, which is a slight improvement in all categories compared to 2017 when it was between 3300 and 3500 bodies. We have spoken in recent years and have looked back at the public consultation that was not sufficiently conducted at the time, and according to the data provided, public authorities who identified themselves as obligations to carry out the consultation, during 2018 conducted a total of 4544 consultations, 63% compared to 2017, and perhaps our discussions and the activities of the office have yielded, however, fruit. The bodies then reported that they had spent just over 2700 consultations. A total of 586 published regulations, acts and documents, including 151 laws, 36 regulations, 350 regulations, 12 standards and criteria, 25 decisions, 9 plans and programmes, 1 Rules of Procedure and 2 guidelines, were included in the bodies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The analysis of all the data collected for all types of acts shows that the public consultation was conducted by 418 of 586 regulations or almost 72%, which represents a significant increase compared to 2017. The consultation was carried out for all legislative proposals adopted and published in the National Journal of 2018. The general assessment is that the situation regarding the transparency and openness of public authorities is gradually improving, that we are making progress, both in the direction of strengthening the publication of information on the Internet and in the quality of the behaviour, of course, as requested by the users. However, public authorities are becoming increasingly responsible for their Law on established obligations, but many illegal solutions continue to worry, while citizens are gradually increasingly using the right to access information. What I would like to praise, therefore, is the active action of the Commissioner's office, these are inspection controls, and so on for this year, although we are talking about the 2018 report, we know that the Office of Information Commissioners will be in inspection at the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, the Ministry of Health, will be in the city of Rijeka and the city of Zadar, the City of Zagreb, HZMO, the Development Agency Split and Stano Administration in Split, all announced, the arrival of Commissioners has been announced, so I think it is also useful to talk to people who are directly implementing the law and also so that any observed anomalies or something that is not sufficiently consistent with the law, correct. The inspections carried out and targeted will be carried out on a continuous basis, which I also welcome. Let's go back a little bit to those who apply, citizens as users have submitted over 30% of the written enquiries, so 138. What they are most interested in is the concrete application of the legal provisions, such as issues concerning the submission of applications, decision-making deadlines, the possibility of investing in an appeal, the calculation of the costs of public authorities, etc. As far as journalists are concerned, the report shows that 24 or only 5.41% of written queries have been asked and are fully answered, which is a relatively small number, which the Commissioner also observes in his report and indicates that journalists are still under-informed with access to information that enables them to access the Information Law, which is already recognised as a problem, seeks to be resolved through continuous media education. Of course, the Commissioner is also acting on a strategic plan that is in force until 2021 with specifics on who is obliged to act in accordance with the Law on the right to access information. What we all want, of course, is that all units of local regional and regional self-government and public authorities that we have seen in some numbers, which are not effectively implementing the law, to do so in the next period of the IC. What is good is continued education, so I think that the next one is scheduled for Pula, where it will be spoken directly to stakeholders and enforcement of the Law on Access to Information Act, and I also believe that next year we will have more trends in active disclosures, that those who do not have their website will nevertheless understand what they do in accordance with the law, I do not know what the reasons, but the Commissioner will probably also respond because I asked him in the replica, so continue to educate the Office of Commissioners for Information, of course to organise other public events so that citizens, so that there is also my final question whether or not the pro-active and the Commissioner already has access to that and to this anomaly wishes that he will actively influence them and that we will, of course, see what can be done in possible legal changes, and that it will be my final question, of course, whether he has already been able to access to this law and to this anomaly, whether or not, in fact, in fact, in fact, I am not properly speaking, I can't be able to the law or in any way, in any way, I can be able to understand through the law or through the law or in any. In any case, the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143126	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a colleague of the Grbins, please welcome a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143127	Thank you, Mr Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Commissioner, for the introduction, when I asked for a break on behalf of the club, I pointed to one problem that has nothing to do with the Commissioner, but it has to do with the report, which is the fact that the home working body, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, has not discussed this report. We amended the HS Rules of Procedure a year ago, as regards the report, we gave a larger role to the committees, because for the working bodies of HS and for a year after the change, we failed the test. Even though it's an art. 60. The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS clearly and unequivocally defined that information, public information on the competence of the Constitutional Committee, we are discussing this report without regard to the home working body was previously manifested, not by any, but by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS, which also has first place in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in some sort of rank list of committees. And why is that particularly important? Because the right to access information is also constitutional law, so that is the right guaranteed by Article 38. The Republic of Croatia Constitution and it must not remain a dead letter on paper. That's why we're in the middle of the line and we're setting up the Office of Commissioners for Information. And I can say, especially now that we are discussing this 2018 report, so five years of office work then, Commissioner, now the Commissioner for Information that it was the right decision. That the establishment of an Information Commissioner's Office or the creation of this new body to deal with citizens' right to access information was a full hit. I will remind you that until the adoption of a new law was in the jurisdiction of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which was in fact a conflict of interest, immaterial to the Agency itself because the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data deals with the nature of the matter in order to protect the data so as not to allow some data to go out illegally or unnecessarily. And the Commissioner for Information is doing exactly the opposite, the Commissioner for Information is here to ensure that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia get the right to information, get full information about what public authorities are doing. That is why the debate on this report should also be shared in my humble court in two parts. One is the preventive, preventive effect not only of the Commissioner for Information but of the entire system of access to information. And I think we can responsibly say that from the moment of entry into force, this system has had a certain effect. Yeah, there's still a lot of things to fix. We talked earlier and heard about the consultations, the Commissioner for Information was in his report other than the proposal to amend the law, very concrete proposals on how to amend the law, and in which direction these amendments should go, as well as calls for the competent ministry to point out that the approaches to the new proposal were also made to certain shortcomings in the implementation of this by the public authority and that certain educations were now proposed where they should go and I hold that everything that the Commissioner said there was in place and that, as a Croatian Parliament, by adopting this report, we should give one, one, one support. However, the second part, which concerns directly the work of the Information Commissioner, needs to be promoted a little more carefully. I'm sorry that for the first time I've been discussing this, not at the board's session, because I think that the debate there could be much more concrete and constructive, but I'm going to repeat one more time the Constitutional Committee didn't have a chance to discuss this because the committee session was delayed. But what's there is. The Commissioner shall act as a second-degree body when discussing complaints from citizens in those situations where public authorities or not decide in time or negatively decide on the citizens' request for access to information. And that is necessary because if there was not a second-degree body with considerable certainty, we can determine that many public authorities would not respond at all to such enquiries. For example, we have such a situation as parliamentary representatives, when we use the Institute of Representative Affairs, so we do not constantly receive answers, regardless of what the answer to the parliamentary question should be within a month, regardless of how we use our right to rush or to intervene with the President of the Assembly, we sometimes get no answer at all, and I do not remember when I received the answer to the parliamentary question within 30 days as provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. If we had, for example, an institute such as the Commissioner for Information that would protect our rights on parliamentary issues, for example, that a board of the Croatian Parliament can handle this, then we could address this body as citizens and force public authorities to respond because, as we see without such coercion, the law remains a dead letter on paper. Now when we talk about complaints, let me, in the otherwise very positive work of the First Commissioner's office, and now I also point out a serious flaw that will require serious work. So, during 2018, you received me 1010 complaints, at the same time you solved 1026 if I'm not mistaken. That's good, that shows the backlogs are being solved. But the problem is that we still have over 300 complaints that are not, are not solved, and what is real and what is even worse than that data is the fact that it is very difficult to expect a 60-day legal deadline to be respected in practice. I'll give you two personal examples. For example, in 2017, in February 2017, I referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision where I was not given the arbitration law in the INA case. Of course, that was the question, at least I'm keeping out of a lot of public interest and me as a parliamentary agent. Do you know when I got the answer to that complaint? A few months ago, after more than two years and the answer was negative. And do you know why? Because in the meantime, it was published and not by the body of the public authority that I asked for an answer but by someone third. So someone else came into possession of that river, published it, and after 2 years, I received an answer to the appeal, or a solution to the appeal. I believe that such a solution is not exactly in accordance with the Constitution, it is not in accordance with, for example, the Convention, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which says that it is in the case of a trial, and yet this is not a judicial body, but it has certain and judicial powers to make a decision within a reasonable period. It's a 2.g. deadline. where a period of 60 or 90 days in special cases is prescribed in the law, it is not a reasonable time limit. The second situation, following a long-standing competition with the ministries that transferred the ball, I also referred the Commissioner to a complaint for not being held accountable within the legal time limit on my request for access to information. At the end of last year, I received a negative response from the Ministry of Economy, which refused to give me an insight into one letter or one reply from the Ministry of Finance concerning the state of the Uljannik Shipyard or the construction of 500 and the problems related to the construction. For those of you who don't know, it's a building that the Republic of Croatia could also cost a billion kuna in guarantees that will have to be paid. However, the government of the Republic of Croatia, to me as a parliamentary representative, does not want to give an insight into the documents and answers related to the problem. In the 12th month 2018 I've made a complaint, there's no answer to it yet. I'm just going to point out that the Uljannik, among other things, and because of this construction in the meantime went bankrupt, that the guarantees were activated, and I as a parliamentary representative, but also the entire Croatian public, cannot see the correspondence of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy from June last year regarding this particular building and precisely the problems that led to the bankruptcy and payment of these state guarantees. In this case, respected colleagues and colleagues, and I believe that if in my example of two complaints where none has been resolved within the time limit, it is likely that others, in both cases, have shown that my right to access information unfortunately remains a dead letter on paper. And while you cannot be responsible for the complaint I made in February 2017, for the one referred to in December 2018, you can and therefore ask, not only in my case, but in all other cases, to make as much effort as possible, when not always, and we are aware that it is always almost impossible, to respect the deadline prescribed by law, and everything is so that constitutional law is prescribed. 38. The Republic of Croatia would simply not remain a dead letter on paper. And now let me rely on the replica, or question asked by my colleague, Bauk. Your Honor, Commissioner, what I have now given you is a response from the Ministry of Environmental Protection to my colleague, who is sitting right behind me, Vice President HS, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. The environment ministry refused to respond to counterpart Hajdash Doncic's request for access to information with a response that he would not do so because he is a parliamentary representative. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fact that a parliamentary representative cannot undermine his constitutional rights guaranteed. In the case of a Member The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not say that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to access information except for council members and MPs, it says that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to do so. And in the event that opposition or opposition council members at the local level use that right, then public authorities should be fully aware that this is the only way for us to get the information we need for our work. In order for us to discuss a certain law, so that we can discuss a particular problem, we simply need information. Commissioner, I have heard your response to my colleague Bauku and I am pleased that you are so clear and decided, but I will also ask you to take advantage of the possibility given to you by the Rules of Procedure of the HS and immediately after my debate to come out of this speaker and tell all the public authorities in the Republic of Croatia from local to state-level authorities that they are obliged to respect the Law on Access to Information and that they are required to respond to their requests for access to information, because they have been elected by citizens to ask questions and then to speak about these issues in places such as HS or I do not know, city, municipal or any other council. I will repeat again, otherwise and in this case, we will put ourselves in a position to keep the law a dead letter on paper, and I am also announcing and calling on all my colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives to support us in this, that, as the SDP Representatives' Club in HS, we will submit a proposal for a conclusion which will invite all authorities in the Republic of Croatia to respect the Law on the right to access information and when requests for access to information are made by members of the representative bodies regardless of which the representative body is working. I will end with the following, the Law on the right to access information is an important law, we are all aware that we have brought it amongst other things because the EU has asked us to do so, but we must also be aware that without access to information, without open, transparent authority, no country today can be democratic in the full of that word, therefore the SDP's Club supports the work of the institution of the Commissioner for Information, I want it to be even more stringent, even more stringent than it was today, until now and even more pro-active and, of course, We will support this report [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143128	The next one is on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, a colleague, Milorad Batinic. Here's my colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143129	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information as one for us a very important act and from which the situation can be read, I will dare to show democracy and democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia, as well as to read certain and problems and also what is visible from this report we read and as well as certain positive movements in informing citizens primarily and all other interested bodies or persons. Every report and this has its own faces and looks like a story. What's very signifying of, I'm going to look purely taxing, so in statistics you say about 4800 and some public authorities almost half of them have received no enquiries, no requests for access to information. It would be very interesting to know which bodies it is. And one large number and half and all practically, half of the public authorities that must also act under the Law on the right to access information, practically all requirements are addressed to them. Of course, it is not good if the public authority does not act by law, it is certainly worrying. But I also think that your office, the Commissioner's office, means all the officers who work on it and what's in certain recommendations, I think that should work more on education. Namely, I'll give you an example of why I'm saying it. All bodies, public authorities, there are units of local self-government, municipal society, of course they and stronger administrative capacity, fiscally above all have the opportunity to hire or further educate someone to do the same job. However, you have one large number of units of local self-government that are small, which have neither fiscal nor human capacity that can practically satisfy, or in some way respect that law. What is certainly yet to be mentioned, denied demands. Why requests are rejected is not considered information. So here I'm going to give you an example, namely, since I'm acting and a function at a local level, we've also been faced with a few questions that have been repeatedly focused on one area where we've been given the right to access information with a created table and that we're practically in a tabular form to answer that information fully-defined elements. All this data that we then had to systematize, classify, calculate both vertically and horizontally, all these data are not systematized in such a way but are on our city's website. It was done and it was very interesting, one and the same person per year sent 3 to 4 such questions. You have the impression that he's doing some work, whether he's doing some kind of analysis. So all this data is available on the city's web sites but not in the form that we've got created for it. Is this information, whether we have to do it and add it up, subtract or systemize it, or we can simply direct it to get out of the available data on the city's website. So there's a dilemma. The protection of personal data, yes, there is also a colleague named Grbin well-detecting the problem we are also facing. Namely, just one councilman had asked a question on the city council, and then we did not give him a clearly decoded name and last name and financial amount of the work contract for the protection of personal data. We thought, we got an interpretation that it was about the protection of personal data which he called for the right to access information, we consulted, let's do it for our own use. However, in order for the same information to be found later on the portals of the party's youth, I will not say which parties. In such a situation, who is to blame and this person who was to be sued? She was supposed to sue the city. So I'd like you to try living examples in your work and in additional education, but I don't even go to education, there's a person who does that to abuse instrumentalization, what's most interesting, that portal gets downloaded and public portals publish it. What now? In the best faith to deliver information, you want to work transparently, etc., etc. And then there's the abuse of information that you got let's say as a member of the representative body. So this abuse of rights by users, is that how it's interpreted if we denied it, did we have the right to deny access to information? It's very interesting and indicative when you get a request for access to information, you can immediately read what it's about, which is the intention, whether local self-government is right, I'll say, I'll formulate as a business secret, the body of the public authority whether it has the right to a business secret. One question, I'd like you to answer me or someone else. There are, business secrets, which become a fact, which becomes an act, which becomes a document when it's publicized, then it's no longer a business secret. Besides, why am I saying that? In public consultation on public consultation, let's say some decision taken by the representative body of the units of local self-government, regardless of course we always try in that part, the proactive part to stick to a deadline of 30 days that is some kind of goal, although to be honest it is not always possible and practically you make that document in public consultation public and then it happens to you, publish an act, it's taken by the representative body and you see that it's practically prescribed, there's the same act, the identical act of some other local self-government. For what I'm saying, someone should've done it, someone should've wasted their time on it while someone else just stole something like that. I'm saying I'm having this dilemma, and now I'm using the occasion of whether it's directly in your jurisdiction I'm not sure, but I'd like you to try to give me an answer, the answer to that question. As regards the right to access information, of course, that as an anti-corruption element, as something necessary for information, I believe that you are aware of certain facts that social networks, regardless of whether the media, whether portals are like this, such as, even private, facebook sites, are crawling with certain information, with certain data obtained through requests for access to information, and borderline, are borderline looking at the Personal Data Protection Act. So that's where I'd like to, and there were a few colleagues that were just talking about that direction, and I'd like you to try whether through the amendments to the law, whether in some other way, and that area, let's say we try to be more specific, because we've also had certain fortunate successes, we've even had requests for lawsuits, because in a good intention of reading the law and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and Access to Information, we've tried to meet the requirements. I'm also asking one question, and I'm sorry that this, and there's the vice president of the assembly, you've probably read that the right to access information, some information, some personal data, especially from the body of citizens who are in representative bodies, who are in this assembly, who act as executive functions that have been abuse of our personal data, an affair I don't know about iron, skill, vice president I think you're talking, e, golf 5's, etc., that I think funny, but on one hand very worrying and sad, sad. Well, I'd also like to be in the domain of what's in that part because it's always mirroring the protection of personal data, the right to access information, which is in your jurisdiction, which in such situations, because there was an eclectic example of abuse not only of the state's fraud. Is it really necessary, is it really necessary for everything to be public? Why should certain bodies not have self-availability of such data, only certain bodies. The demands show everything, however, let it sign reveres that it will be used for what and how. Well, if I can get some answers, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143130	Thank you. Now we continue with an individual debate. The rapporteur will eventually answer all your questions, so we agreed. So, we continue with the individual debate now is my first colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143131	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Commissioner for Information, the report is in a period when you were not a Commissioner, was another person, but one of the most important things and the fight against corruption, of course, that it has that meaning of information, the information is everything. Information was mainly today, but information was always information and certainly privileged information affected the increase of corruption and the decomposition of Croatian society. It affected everyone. From the economy, the economy, the economy, the economy, the demographics because people, and because they were unfair, felt the injustice that they had no right to information mainly as far as public authorities, local self-government, regional self-government is a big part, these bodies are largely managing and of course affecting the lives of these people in these areas, and this is one of the most serious topics is that the information is essentially everything. These privileged information that went through, however, I can count from very important from my valleys in the region of Dalmatia, that's, say, concessions on maritime well-being, that's money, that's billions of dollars in our pockets, our public good in other people's well-being, of course. With this largely sponsored and campaigning of political parties, and so it was convenient, too many powers had local and regional sheriffs, and we all know that, we all know that, and it affected the outflows and a large number of people, a small profit and, of course, a major increase in corruption. It's a similar thing with the public bodies when you were just a moment ago, a colleague in the replica mentioned I would mention the problem of us who in the representative bodies were councils, whether in the county councils, or in the assembly. Right here in the assembly I don't know which parliamentary representative who asked the question that he wasn't late for an answer. To me, I remember today, for months I've been waiting for an answer on the case of a former Dalmatian factory about paying off workers in the bankruptcy of their claims I couldn't get an answer, and we're talking about a legislative body that is the representative body of the highest rank. Then you know what happens now in municipalities and cities when the current majority passed the law so-called. The lex sheriff where simple representative bodies have absolutely lost what little roles they had and that is, the right to information all, the right to information from these bodies of local self-government, the regional self-government is even more privileged to certain groups of people is simply this law killed direct democracy, it has been killed and with what is not called a referendum, when people have gathered, and in this way the representative body has been placed in, the body represented by the people is subordinated to the position, mainly when we talk about municipalities, cities and counties, and the authority of public good governance is in this area, they are authorized bodies that manage, I have listed here, maritime goods, but that is also the case of agricultural land in Slavonia and my Sinj, of course, in the Sinj field where it is also through certain privileged information is affected by this, and we see now and by the law, in being even more central to be in the principles of the power of the city. For what? Is the pressure on them to comply with this law and transfer concessions to other owners, not those who have received, so simply in this chaos, I don't blame you and your body, but simply so the policy has made that the representative bodies are minorized, and those bodies absolutely don't get an answer, when we in HS don't get an answer, the parliamentary representatives in time from the body that we would have to speak, then you know how it is at lower levels. So, I don't know, here's the question I've asked, a few MPs who, if it wasn't for the key issues of shipbuilding, shipbuilding problems and issues of concern, would have been difficult to get information with legal and business written representation issues in writing. Information as information is still very important, it is important for information about public procurement in public bodies, so we have cases, cases still that when someone is employed in Dalmatia, publishing Slavonian newspapers or in Istria, Istrian some, newspapers, is it the only legal obligation to publish in certain public messages, but it did not prescribe on, and of course is some official site that people generally, citizens of that area see, so that that information is also a lot of hiding. And another of the biggest problems is public procurement, and there is also the destruction of competition through the provision of information that through these public procurements that are quite closed, and in the process of making public authorities, I can say as far as environmental decisions are concerned, I can say as far as the Perun thermal power plants are concerned, I can do about these projects that I personally think are harmful, someone says that good or information about renewable energy sources, subsidies, where wind power plants subsidize, while people who built microsolares is less likely to, could not get into the quota, get that quota built by microsolarers on their roofs, but the wind power plants got it neatly, and it would have been big, meaning electricity producers, while the microsolars didn't really go through, I have an example in Sinjo the man who built solar panels in 2013, paid EUR 60.000.00, everything is ok,... He said everything's okay, the entrance, the exit, the scales, everything you need. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, from the agency in charge of the granting of these, and it was not subsidized, I think he paid everything out of his pocket, at the grant... For many sources he couldn't get it for 30 kilowatts, while megawatts, megawatts of wind power plants were given in a minute half a night, in a few seconds it would have been awarded big, half a night before and before New Year's Eve. On New Year's Eve, it would be allocated to wind power plants that 2.5 billion kuna per year, which a billion and a half of our pockets pay for more expensive electricity, and a billion suppliers give us 2.5 billion kunas leaving while people who did microsolares have no right to do so regardless of what they were publicly called to build microsolars because we're rich in the sun and so on, so we still have to work on it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there is no blame on you, nor, you are here now in that position, but in general it has affected a lot of our resources that the public bodies manage, are assigned according to privileged information, and it is one of the key things of leaving people and the islands and coasts and coasts, that I can speak in my neighborhood, is of course the one that is better with the mayor, that would get concessions, the one that would get concessions for ports, build their empires, and so it works today and probably, I hope that it won't be long and now what we can do as a parliament, we can make representative bodies stronger, and in fact we as a legislative body, most have weakened the representative body and means the council, either municipal, or city or assembly, they have weakened and gave power to one person, regardless of what some company is a water company, or a single mayor's rightly held in its own, the mayor's rightful office, and the rightly is the right to name of the mayor. Therefore, representative bodies were killed, directly democracy killed by this lex sheriff and simply so clearly under the dictatorship of the Republic of Croatia better functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143132	Thank you. We have three replicas on your display, first colleague of Sladolev's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, why do I think that the HNS should answer the question that parliamentary representatives and ministers have traveled to their account in Russia, not only in Russia, but also in other travels and the HNS paid them expensive rooms in expensive hotels, although the answer will likely be because HNS is not a public body and is not financed from the state budget. But the HNS is responsible for the playground infrastructure, for the football fields where our kids practice. It seems crazy to me, too, that the Croatian Football Federation finances parliamentary representatives and ministers with expensive tickets when they can do it from their salaries and not invest management in such things as football courts where children practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143134	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143135	Not only that, but they wear them on their shoulders in front of the entire world public who are affected. So there is, so they will never give that information because they simply need a party card to be similar in the Croatian Football Assembly. And it really saddens me right now, right now, let's just say my son's hero was supposed to be studying in the second league, he was a champion, out of financial difficulties he couldn't because HNS brought some criteria... == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man founded for more than 100 years can't get into another league because it has to meet the financial criteria, seas, all living. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's why it has to be the ball of Assembly MPs at HNS' expense, it's allowed, it's allowed and that kids don't have the opportunity to play football, they don't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143136	Thank you, thank you very much. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143137	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bulj, I also had a conversation where from the OPG Association Life said that they had sent a 20-mail question about these concessions, one simple question is you signed the contract, so they transferred it to new societies. Well, most of them got the answer. But there were those who said but you didn't ask in a good way or, if that practice is even or if everyone interprets at one point how it suits him, maybe that's why you didn't get the question. Or what happens, I don't know you send the question, so you should get an answer from HNS or someone who sent it. You don't get it from her, but you get a picture from a parliamentary representative that speaks more than a word. And then the question is who is, why doesn't the institution want to answer if we have an institution from a parliamentary representative who actually says that, we should agree there so there's no law to interpret one in one way, the other in the other. Here's the representative... Answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143138	Thank you. Here's my friend Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143139	Well, I would totally agree here that she was drinking backwards here. Simply, here's only when we look at your Slavonia, you've also warned about it as chairman of the Agriculture Committee, but also as a person from that area and we've talked about it, I come from those parts, from the other end, but the fact that we say agricultural land, that is. The concession law now gave the possibility that agricultural land, concessions, would go to other societies. And they legally shut down all the information. Now that there's some company, why don't you call yourself a competition and go to someone else? But no, the public body, the state body, the ministry doesn't want to prescribe it, but it will force your chief or mayor from your area to sign it on their behalf, regardless of what this Parliament and what we have warned, to pass the law not to transfer concessions to drinking water, it will also be on agricultural land, so they have no problem. This Parliament is just an extended hand... An extended arm of interest groups. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143140	Thank you. Comrade Lonchar, here you go, replica no. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143141	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj, I can't be satisfied with your findings when it comes to mayors, mayors of municipalities, especially when it comes to concession laws, public procurement laws, etc., etc. As far as I know and for a long time in this branch, I have not had a single chief or mayor alone ever spent a concession and I have chosen any or changed the technical things that imports actually carry with them and especially in public procurement. I also know that everything and one, I can literally tell myself everything and one first formed a commission that implements the procedure and public procurement and the Law on concessions, and then prepares it for the municipal council and the council to make a final decision. It's never happened until now that the mayor or mayor has chosen I've chosen either... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143142	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143143	Thank you very much. You're looking at a fellow maybe, you're the captain and you're from your own corner, I'm convinced that this lex sheriff so-called. These Electoral Law has weakened the representative bodies and has not given them the maximum weakness and as far as concessions themselves are concerned, here on the maritime good or this port of Gaženica in you which is 2 billion and 200 million, it has given the Turkish company 30 million in 20 years, a million and a half kuna for two billion and 200 million kuna of what the Croatian State has invested in the port of Geženica. And that is intransparent, unfair, not principled and incorrect, above all, towards Croatian citizens from your area because they were left behind. These Turks are not going to buy you your agricultural products for cruisers coming down, they're going to groom their own, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143144	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, and I welcome Mr. Piculjane and his associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us in this hot day, we are discussing the right to access information, this is special today, it has always been important, especially in this ours as we call the information age because a man is lost today without information. On the one hand, we have never been technically and technologically better equipped and had so easy access to everything but on the other hand, the question arises why we can't get the right information at times. We have fast computers, we have smart phones, everything's great, but the key question is how can we get the right information and why sometimes we can't get the right information. You see, without the right to access information and without the quality of information required by the citizen, there is simply no democracy, there is no democratisation, there is no transparent work, and on the other hand, it is favourable to the development of corruption, customerism, crime and everything else that we in Croatia have to fight, and what is very widespread according to the reports and the European Commission we see in what a bad situation we are in. Then what does it take to do? You here state that you have received about 17,000 different requests, as approved etc., you also state the reasons why, why some have not received information, is it for personal reasons, because of GDPR, whether these are classified some information etc., etc., you also state that the business secret is the reason. The question arises to what extent is regulated and standardised exactly these criteria that you have listed business secrets of this, etc., the report shows that the number of units is decreasing, meaning any state and local self-government that does not hand over certain reports, which is good. But I'm going back to that fundamental issue we've never had more information, opportunities to access information, but the question is, how do we get the right information? Now, in order for me not to speak abstractly, I will take advantage of the opportunity, meaning as a parliamentary representative representing citizens from another constituency, and therefore all citizens in Croatia, you see I have been waiting for over 3 months from the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Croatian Financial Institutions and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to answer the parliamentary questions that I sent to them through the President. So it's been 90 maybe 100 days, I even wrote a rush. Now, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, if I and some other colleagues here, especially us from the opposition that we are fiercely fighting against such a system of non-transparentity, if we can't get an answer to some questions representatively, because as the people here have chosen us, so how will an ordinary citizen come to you for some information, so he doesn't stand a chance, if he gets the information it will most often be information to satisfy a request, and it will very often not be the real information he asked for. And what's done is eaten by a donkey wolf. This is a concrete example, and I welcome your work, the Commissioner for Information, and this is about the case of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development when a certain entrepreneur Saric asked to be put to his attention, that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should put into account the loans they granted to their clients, and the argument was that it was a public institution financed by the Republic means first of all from the budget and that he had the right to know where the loans were being placed is. And for several years there has been a fierce struggle, it has come and finally the Supreme Court ruled in favour of this citizen entrepreneur that HABOR has a task to give not only him but now and to all of us citizens what they asked for. Well, you see, I've been looking for similar data, there were 4, 5 questions, not to tell you now, but they're crucial because it's about the state money because that bank doesn't collect from some other sources and you see 90, 100 days I haven't gotten that information. Be careful as a parliamentary representative. Why? So because these questions are such a character that it would obviously show and reveal the true state of things about the lending policy, about how many credits are not returned, how much is written off, who, by what criteria, and you see these are awkward questions. And you know who sits in HABOR, all in a row of politicians. There's a chamber in the Chamber of Commerce, and I don't know if, there's 10 of them, and there's 10 of them, and it's a wall behind which you can't find out what's going on, and they're going to have to answer. The land of heaven swore that all secrets should be known what our people say, and so it will be, and all will come to pass. But dear citizens, you are now following this, if you follow this, I don't know if they're cutting this off in some discussions and so on, the fight for access to information is the most important form of fighting for the democratisation of all processes in the Republic, that we have one real political system we have to have information. We can't fight corruption, if we don't have the most important information, and you see what's going on here and I'm going to set it up every day, here's the change now for the second vice president, Mr. Brkic, he's certainly got some good reason to hire himself to help me get quality information, too, see if we can see that this fellow Brkic is being manipulated with information. So if I can't get timely information from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance, so forgive me what I do, here what I do here, then I have to apologize to the citizens and tell my people I can't tell you what I need because they don't give me information you know. So, I welcome and will fight the Party We Change Croatia will fight hard for your independence not to be influenced and to prevent such practice as the current Prime Minister Plenkovic wants, he wants to exclude the chairman of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest because it does not suit him, allegedly she had a conflict of interest because she was in the Croatian Employers' Association. Watch out for his finance minister like he wasn't in Agrokor when he was, so he had connections when he was giving credit. You see, Croatia can't heal until we cut these Gordian knots, until we open up information to keep everything online the next day after making decisions and signing the minutes. Then we will have a new, better changed Croatia where you will have less to do and where citizens will be able to get better quality, better, faster information, and that is Croatia as we want and dear citizens, I invite you to recognize finally the right parties, the right people who can make such a desired and expected turn, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143146	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. Next debate, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143147	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Commissioner for Information with Associates, so today I will also speak in some way to contribute to this debate on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, and I have set a few points here for myself, and then, of course, I will talk about them. What makes it important for me to say that and this is somewhere very clear, that this law has been passed as one amongst other things, one of the anti-corruption mechanisms and that this law would actually be, then it should actually be implemented unreservedly and respected by all those who are actually obliged to submit information but according to a valid report, yet we see that it is not yet quite so, right, that is, that you said and that according to this programme that you have finally stated, that you will still invest certain efforts and some programmes to implement in order to increase the effectiveness of the respect of the law itself from those who are obliged to actually implement it and deliver information to all those who are interested. What seems important to me, it's to say, to point out, you've emphasized yourself, it's the number of those who haven't delivered the report. Maybe it doesn't seem too much, it's about 16%, but you may have, I didn't go to your site, information about it, the structure of those who didn't deliver reports, which are public authorities, which are public authorities and which are the reasons why they didn't deliver reports and whether they know exactly the name of those who don't again deliver the same. This also raises the question of responsibility or consequences that exist or should exist because of the lack of a report. The other thing that seems quite important to me there is all that applies to user complaints and you especially said yourself in the report that they are light, that there are some fewer, but that still that larger number is bigger than it was in the period 2014-2016, which means that there is a clear dissatisfaction with the silence of the administration because you have just mentioned the silence management as a reason or one I would say the trend which was continued to be worrying because almost 48% is precisely why the complaints are being filed is the silence of the administration. And now, of course, now we're going to, so I have to relate to what hurts me as well as some of the other colleagues who talked about it today because everyone will naturally scratch where it it itches and we MPs are just talking about the silence of those who don't answer our parliamentary questions. And so it's not just one case, an isolated case, it seems to be a trend, so it might be worth really researching, so I don't know if you have the powers to analyze what these are reasons, which is a period of time, and ultimately whether there are any consequences when such a long-term violation of our right, a representative's right to information, or our representative's right to get an answer. I must tell you that I have personally referred to a number of parliamentary questions, and so far I have a recordr in my non-response is Minister Kujundzic, the question was asked on November 19th 2018, and now we have a good set of months, and as things stand, I'm afraid that answer probably won't even be there, so we're wondering if my right to answer, to access that information, has been injured. Likewise, I have not received an answer from Minister Butkovic, also since last year, and here is the list that Minister Ćoric can also be classified in which I have not received an answer for several months. But what's even more problematic is that when you get an answer, it's actually questionable in some way the credibility of the answer itself, or the certainty that something like that is going to happen, or that the content of that answer is indeed credible or that it can, that something like that is going to happen. Here I have to mention to you the answer of Andrej Plenkovic, the prime minister, who said last year, exactly one year ago, that my question of when a national programme for the protection and promotion of human rights will be adopted, he said, exactly in response, will be in place by the end of the current year, so 2018. We are now in June 2019, from the programme itself or the P, so I am waiting for the answer, and when we get the answer, then in that answer we can already say, there are no truths. Speaking of the government, I will repeat once again what I said and so far because things haven't changed for the better, so I'll say when the government and the meeting and has a session then it doesn't act according to your recommendations to be pro-active because pro activity would mean that at least 24 hours before the government session starts, we have a agenda on the government's pages. I looked at him yesterday because somehow I assumed there was going to be a cabinet session, in the morning or in the late afternoon hours, there was no agenda. So it's possible that he was on the Internet this morning, but yesterday, 24 hours ago, they didn't do well to publish the agenda, and I'm not even going to talk about the fact that the accompanying materials are gone at all 3 years, 2 or 3 years. and that they consider it a good practice, I think it's a bad practice and that the government in this respect is transparent and accessible pro-active publication of information actually has gone backwards these last few years instead of actually making progress. And finally, what I think is extremely important, and that is what you mentioned, public participation in the creation of laws and these ministries and all those who put acts in public should respect all those deadlines and maximum deadlines so that the public can be in a good position to participate in the very adoption and creation of the laws themselves, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143148	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alfirev. We have a replica, a respected colleague of the Sun's Head, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Alfirev, I had to react since several of your predecessors were quite misread and asked the Commissioner for Informing a question that is not at all within the domain of his report and is not within the domain of the law because the MPs are not asking questions in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the HS and so on. 140th away. If you were to ask the question in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, it is 15 days, as regards parliamentary issues, and MPs, unlike citizens, have different mechanisms and options, then it is 30 or more days, which is why the repeated president HS, of course, every time, and you know it yourself, asks the Government to answer the remaining outstanding questions, so please do not confuse the law with the Rules of Procedure of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143150	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glavak. Answer, colleague Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143151	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Glavak, well, of course, I am aware of how, on which the Rules of Procedure are handled by MPs and, however, this is an opportunity where you can and should speak exactly about this subject, and we were just a moment ago if you were listening to the debate of your colleagues, then you had the opportunity to hear that one of our colleagues is actually a representative, and he referred the question as a citizen of one body from which he should have received information and he received the answer that he actually as a representative in HS does not have the right to such something, which is really, really very, very strange.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143152	I thank my colleague Alfirev for his reply. Next debate, respected counterpart Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143153	Thank you very much, Vice-President, honourable Commissioner with fellow Members, representatives of the ministry, so here's something I want to say about this 2018 report, congratulating the appointment of last year to the commissioner, the new commissioner, I think this is the part that we're discussing, and it's not the biggest part of his work, but when we talk about the report, today it's trying to come down to some kind of, again, a little bit of politicizing about whether the government is doing its job or not, whether it's answering questions etc., us who have passed a little bit more, but we have some experience of local self-government, we notice what's going on. So this Law on the right to access information has been well-imagined and it has been a bit of a realization from year to year and it should not be so critical of what is happening to us in the system because the system is complex, slightly mixed and politics and professions and simply certain rights and we see that what I have read in some of the requirements of my own citizens means a fundamental right to information that I can and do not have to agree with but we are essentially all trying to be as transparent in our business as possible and that, of course, if they are disturbed or want to know, they have an additional right to know. And these rights are used in the way that citizens themselves know and in the way that they can afford it. We cannot determine immediately at the beginning that all citizens know everything and that everything is clear to them and that they know how to get information. Well, we often have what we've heard in the debate, something that's already out there, which is already standing, and what a citizen simply doesn't know how to do. So we have to do something official, formal, even though there's already everything out there. So it often comes in these memos or transcripts or correspondences between local self-government and office to the fact that a simple citizen doesn't even know what he's looking for, essentially wants to know something and basically he's getting more or less public or he's more or less out there. Because today you hide almost nothing can, at least I know because there's such a system of control that if you simply do something and you manage to hide somewhere in one part, the other part will get you out. So, with all the internal audits we have, so we have a state audit, so we have inspections, so we have all segments of some kind of inspection, so we have websites, we have a system of information set up, so a lot of things that local self-government has to do to make the system as transparent as possible. And then we come to a citizen asking us something about a budget that goes by, say, e-consumptions already, a large number of local self-governments do it, a large number of people don't do it, a large number for consulting and with many decisions, a large number does nothing. And now we have one situation that those who do and do all this well are essentially equal to those who don't do anything and there needs to make a little bit more of an opportunity not to let the last one in the bench that sits or is bad always goes well and those who are first and first do always go bad. And that's something that's true. I mean, setting up a system by the law of the very way means access to information is quite demanding today. You have local self-government that has two, three, five employees, and I come from one that has six of us, and you have local self-government that has hundreds. And it's not easy there to determine one less for I don't know how to protect the data, then the other one's for information, the third one's a communal director, the fourth one can't be anything anymore, and he's actually an accountant. Then we have a problem that some people have to be double something and the state gives us everything, more and more activities, especially plans... we often speak, and we simply come to the fact that red tape or administration has become a little too wide and too heavy and difficult, and we are getting harder and harder to do all the jobs and we can't reach such jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when someone tells you you're not good enough or I don't know you haven't put a decision on e-consultation long enough and comes to the council and raises your hand for that decision, then they ask themselves why you're doing it. So you have an objection, and it would be normal if you weren't satisfied with the e-indication you didn't make any remarks, you're voting for that decision, then the question is why are you asking the commissioner who hid that right from you? or it wasn't long enough, I don't know 30 days, 8 days, 15 days, etc. We all strive to make everything more or less transparent as possible, but sometimes we and the deadlines make us not to be able to consult for 30 days. We see on average that's pretty close to 30 days. But more time will pass, and we need to learn together to keep it as wide as possible. But we have local, what about local self-governments that don't have any e-consultation, what's their status? They don't do it, they have councilors mostly big majority, they hold sessions that last 15 minutes, 20 minutes, and everything's fine. It means that the system is politically set up, has certain gaps and does not reward those who are good and not punish those who are weak. And that's where we come to how much good people will try to do when they see that they have something going on and it's not so good. Then again we say it's for our citizens we go for them. We now had an example of a mayor who put everything out there, all the information and they say it's great and it's the best and most transparent. But the rest of us also don't keep anything secret, we have budgets that are public,... Because there's a competition, someone's evaluating you, the finance institute is assessing whether you have everything out there that you need, an explanation, an explanation, a budget in a small, a budget like this, a budget that changes over a year, everything is out there and everything in it writes, up to three levels, sometimes even though we don't need to be at the third or fourth level, the lowest level to know exactly every activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And people use it. But there's also that part called abuse of information. Now there's a question of how to distinguish a possible desire to abuse certain information so that he doesn't ask himself a political moment where he tries to misinformed someone first and then create himself a political path. Because today we saw in one situation the representatives of a party come to us and say we lied to you for three years. And we did it knowingly because we knew that we were lying and that it was justified because that was a wide picture but that now it's all tight and we all have to break up. So they admit that they lied, that they abused citizens' trust and they don't expect any punishment. And what kind of system of information can help us get to anything? After... None. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, in order for any act to be issued, we all sign or ask the parties to sign certain statements on the protection of their data, etc., etc. Many give up some of their rights because they have to sign some statements, they don't want people, which may be sad, but it's true. So when you offer him a form, he says I won't sign it. They don't want to take those 200 kunas of my help but they'll sign it. You don't understand, you explain to him that's how it has to be, they don't want it. They want some easier way. As for the report itself, it is evident that the number of attempts or procedures varies year by year, meaning that certain information is available and it is not negligible, 17 thousand is not small. That's a really big number. I'm sure there's a big job on you. We remember how the office started, started it or started it during the former government, and I'm a little surprised by their debate today, the first years were without the finances, so somehow in the second year it was set up, so it kind of started, and I was wondering if there was a lot of 3 million or 4, how long it was for something to do, but we see that today, just after 5 years, it still has a certain purpose and people can't really say that there's no system that's not going to give them information. It may be longer, it may take time, but at some point that information will be obtained, so that it should not always look bad or criticize just to criticise, but really look at the system as a whole because it is set. It's set up for us, more or less okay, but that we have to start doing something and the differences between those who work and do well and those who don't do anything because it happens to us in all segments. We have those who do everything right, let's say in the waste part and those who do nothing and they're all equal. So, either we all have to and give ourselves time for some things, let's look at all the websites, there are municipalities that don't have websites. So, what's the information system over there? So that's where we have to make the difference. We have some local self-government where the law isn't exactly what it's supposed to be. And by us, I mean, maybe that's where your office has to react and say, gentlemen, you guys who we've noticed in the system don't do your job right. Maybe the ministry, too, but also the office. Because if we're just gonna watch if the good jobs are working and they're really trying to make sure their citizens are okay, then they're finally doing nothing at all saying, we're great, we've been through everything, like these other citizens, and nobody's asked us anything. Anyway, here's all the praises for this report and hopefully, in 2019, we'll be much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143154	I thank my colleague, Josip Boric. We have replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143155	Dear counterpart Boris, I support your debate with the fact that there is something else that needs to be pointed out here in particular. Abuse. So we're all allowed access to information, we're all meant to be transparent, but here, and the Commissioner's report mentions, let's say, one of the data that 155 complaints, that is, any of one of them. We have, each of us having some kind of example of some people constantly looking for some kind of information that I don't know, some firm, looking for some kind of contract that was signed with some kind of business entity, then delivering applications. I think that the part should limit, in some ways, the abuse of demand and the right to access information because the fact is that someone can do much more damage than the Institute itself is entitled to access information.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143156	I thank my colleague Klaric, the answer, my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143157	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, here, has, has such a situation. Let's just say, in the design of spatial planning documents, you're lucky that a citizen encourages hundreds of people who will give you the same remark and then you'll be processing 500 remarks instead of one which are basically not true but are invented or tailored to some political moments. There to determine what is right, and what is not, as is the code, I don't know, the Committee of Conflict of Interest, etc., the bodies that have appeared in the last few years, it has come to the point that citizens are trying to use each one of their own rights, but it's often there on the side of a lot of politics. Whether the office can sort, i.e. I don't think so, but we have down in local self-governments, especially small, that famous wax popul. He can't hide anything, so you know there's everything that happened somewhere without asking the office or the informer what's going on. Which means less information out there means that citizens know a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143158	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143159	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, I fully agree with your debate. Here, my colleague Klaric has taken a lot of my thoughts. All the information that we bring out out sometimes causes very great damage in work and daily, and I can also say at the annual level. Therefore, there are a number of factors that affect the sending of information, they can be positive, but in the vast majority I say, they can cause damage to the units of the local administration, especially in the space of the planning documents, when signing the contract and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143160	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143161	Thank you very much. You and your colleague, Loncar, are the head of local self-government, and you know very well what councilmen do, especially where we have opposition and power in some equal proportions. The fact is that political abuse of procedure or the right to access information and the moment you offer him one of three opportunities to get that information, it's that direct insight into a document that he has the right to see, whether it's some kind of contract that can be as protected as it is, but which usually passes by those bodies of the municipal council and mayors and mayors and mayors aren't as independent as some here say they are some kind of sheriffs that all decisions I don't know, somewhere they make, etc. I think quite the opposite, that they at least decide everything, and they all fit, don't they? They have committees all over the place, so they make you a decision that you sign, that there are people who don't want to use it except to politicize it. He won't be coming to see the contract, but he'll get you on board neatly, so everyone has to question whether that's the case or not. This way of billing now that was introduced, a little bit nevertheless made little more order in that part. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143162	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric. Final word on behalf of the rapporteur, Commissioner for Information, Mr Zoran Piculjan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank the esteemed representatives and MPs for the comprehensive debate on the report. It just shows us that this job, this task of accessing information, is its touch with a number of other institutes, business secret, protection of personal data, abuse of rights, in fact, what is worth discussing, is worth gradually improving. It's not a simple administrative and legal area, simple legal issues, but in any case you can't look at them and solve them if not, if it doesn't, if it doesn't seem comprehensive. I would respond to a few of these individual replicas that were at the beginning and which were, in fact, requests for an answer, I would try to be as precise as possible, and then I would only have a few final sentences related to what the MPs have made as general more proposals than the comments on the report itself. There was one question about the Croatian Football Federation that was certainly a question of a significant interest to the Croatian public, and I remind here what the position of the Commissioner for Information and what is its legal understanding, which is that the Croatian Football Federation is a body of public authority, a legal person with public authority, and that in a concrete proposal, an object which is being reached before the High Administrative Court, in fact, the Commissioner for Information has ordered the Croatian Football Federation to give information to the applicant or the user who requested it. Unfortunately, for procedural reasons, it is concluded and in any case this information can and must be sought and the spending of public funds under our legal understanding is binding and binding for this body of public authorities, which apropo is not considered a body, does not consider itself to be a body of public authority, but we do not have a legal provision and legal, we cannot, we cannot, we cannot, but ultimately the court will determine whether someone is or is not a body of public authority, but there is a obligation. As for the questions and Mrs. Glavak, who has no website, and that is the question of one that you have opened in fact indirectly, and this is about teamwork at local level, at local level and teamwork of smaller bodies to meet the obligations, some categories of bodies to meet the obligations of this law, to fully meet their obligations. We can say that it's usually DVDs, homes for older and powerless, some associations that have legal powers, public powers, veterinary cells, smaller communal societies. Where's the exit? The exit is in the founder of one who practically, he is somewhere in the obligation to help those who, who he founded and who in that part cannot perform his function, needs a founder, the founder that should be substituted by a solution which, it is a recommendation and that is our recommendation to do so in this way. As regards this institute, which is very, very, very strong, apostrophe today, which is the abuse of the right to access information, it has already been seen in the application itself that this standard on the abuse of institutes should also be introduced into, as a legal provision, for the reasons why this is, in addition, a common reason why the right to access by the institutions or bodies of public authorities themselves. However, the practice of second-degree resolution itself shows that, unfortunately, the bodies have very little explanation for this institute that has its subjective and objective legal element and which should be proved to be abuse. We have, there is a practice of Commissioners who in several cases confirmed the abuse of rights when it comes to related requirements which practically indicate that, that, in fact, the applicant abuses the right, but there is a practice of the High Administrative Court, which goes in one direction and in another, which confirms the decisions of the Commissioner, but also when abuse is not well clarified, abuse of the right to access, not abuse of information, but the right to access to information, then this one asks for a strong explanation because it is a constitutional right by excluding practically access to one right guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution. Here, where do we see a solution here? We see the solution where we see a solution in a number of others, solving a number of other issues, and we see it in education, in systematic education, and at all levels, all the categories of those bodies that apply this law, but for such a, for such, we should and should be capacitated with resolution and see if we have two, a vessel that is connected if you are committed and devoted to an extremely large amount of education, then in the second part, the good part under the quotes suffers it's our fundamental protective function, and that's the solution in the second degree by being an appeal body and comes to what happens, which is the non-resolvement of issues, the non-resolvement within the legal deadline. This is what makes me feel like the abuse of real, otherwise I feel that we, the abuse of rights, business secret and personal data as special subjects this year, will point out in our educations, but also in our guidelines and everything we do in a way that and through the annual counseling that we are introducing for the first time in this system, but also with those who are directly implementing this law, are officials and officials who are dealing with them, or officials who are not directly informed but are involved in this, in this process. And now just a few more minutes of answers, I ask for answers to these questions that have been asked or comments asked by distinguished representatives on behalf of their clubs. I'll try to be as brief as possible. What about the procedure mentioned by the distinguished representative of the coat of arms that is under way I will not comment on the proceedings that are under way, but regarding their resolution within a reasonable period I understand, understands what and, I understand his objection and we will solve, we will try like everyone else, speed up our process of solving only for such which we really need to be more strongly teamed, not this home would do this, this home has partly recognized it, has it? This second, in addition to commenting on whether or not, and I think that the same thing has been answered quite precisely, MPs have the same right to use the law on access to information under the same conditions as all Croatian citizens, not entering their business rights which are unquestionable or council rights which are unquestionable. I, we stick to our area and say in it that, on the same terms as everyone else who, the applicants, and that is, that is the answer I owe to an esteemed representative. As far as Mr. Batinić is concerned, here I could, I think that he, as many others still here, predicate to the subscribing part of local and regional self-government, but also predicated for education, but somewhere he pointed to abuse, but perhaps even one, perhaps not abuse, but a lack of understanding. The information required, the bodies are not obliged to produce, they are obliged to provide the information they possess, anything else would be a significant burden for public authorities, in that sense neither the spirit nor the letter of this law. But once the information is given, when the body gives that information, then that information is public. It is, the user's information can be used in any way. The eye, and perhaps, the final answer, related to Alfirev, is related to the report, which are sanctions for the intolerance of the report. There's no sanctions, but there's a modus that we're going to impose sanctions on the law, but the modus that we're going to do in the future, right now, we're going to ask those bodies to report anyway, we're going to order them to file a report, and then we're going to see, then we're going to test the mechanism that we're going to be successful. What is missing from this, somewhere you can see, this whole right of approach is that it's extremely well imagined, but, and to a good extent, it's gradually getting better and better realized, it's seen through the report, but it's a sanctioning mechanism, or it doesn't have to be or it has to be effective. The mechanism that we've tried to show you through an example, but through an analysis of the Criminal Code, it's actually not effective and we're going through the changes in our final proposals and... to improve the normative framework of law enforcement and to strengthen sanctions for non-compliance with legal obligations in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, finally, I think we've mostly responded and we've been through this report well, and we've compromised it a little this year, a little bit, but we haven't made a single recommendation, and we've written it in a way that we've concreteized them, and we're going through these recommendations, and we're going to make recommendations and obligations that we've made ourselves part of, and they're going to impose these situations, which, with regard to the right to access to information, we're going to try to implement them, and we're going to try to do better, so the report that happens also shows one specific, I hope, significant progress, but it's worth really seeing that every year this report is showing that the great effort that has been put into the analysis, analytical monitoring of this implementation of the law in the making of guidelines, in working with the public authorities, actually, gives us the results. It seems that they are not always as we would expect, but the future with changes and amendments to the law and change, part of the change of practice, which our representative Boric was also talking about, is in fact, a change in the practice of the body, which will come, not only through the education of officials, but through the education of leaders, leading officials, through tailored education, you see in the section that is talking about trade societies, their application of the law and in, now, the rich practice of the High Administrative Court, related to it, in fact we will have tailored education, targeted education, and where the violations of the law are obvious or assumed, in that part, or in fact they are quite prominent, we will go with, not now, not with the whole but with targeted inspection supervision and finally also show these sanctions and sanctioning everything that is not good. We are finally still in favour of education, prevention, phasing out, one evolutionary approach, and what we think is certainly right, that it is certainly not necessary to go over the continuous and harsh violation of the law. That is why the sanctioning mechanism needs to be strengthened, and much, much more invested in the mechanism of prevention and education. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143164	Thank you, Mr. Piculjanu. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Commissioner for the Information, Mr Zoran Piculjan and his associates and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Administration, Katica Prpić answers and explanations. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143165	Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2018. The applicant is the Commissioner for Information, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 105 for and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee. The SDP representative club proposed a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The bodies of the public authorities are obliged to respond to requests for access to information and when submitted by members of the representative bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the City Assembly and the City of Zagreb, the County Assembly and the municipal and city councils, regardless of their right to submit parliamentary and council questions. I am voting on the proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Club. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 99 for and 9 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143166	We move to the next item of the agenda: - (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency; it is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article. 12 Laws on Croatia report to the news agency. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. I'd like a representative of the motionary, a respected secretary of state, Mr. Ivica Poljička, to give us an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, esteemed representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament Hinom manages the administrative board of presidents, vice presidents and 3 members. The Administrative Council of Hine appoints and resolves the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. One member of the Administrative Council of Hina shall be appointed from the ranks of employees in Hina, one member of the media expert, and the other 3 members from the order of economic, financial, legal, information experts. The members of the Governing Council may not be a state official, a person acting in a position in the bodies of a political party and a person in a working relationship or in any other business in competing companies that could result in a conflict of interest. In accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a public invitation has been issued to propose candidates for the appointment of a member of the Governing Council of Hina in the order of media experts due to the end of the term of office of the current member of the Governing Council. At the call in question, four candidates applied, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed to the Croatian Parliament to appoint it Prof. Dr.sc. Majdu Tafra Vlahovic to the council members. This has also been discussed on the committee responsible who unanimously supported this proposal and, in that sense, I ask the esteemed home to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143168	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Polick, for the explanation of the proposal. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you very much. I am opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Irena Petriavcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143169	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, the HDZ Club will support this proposal because we believe that the administrative council has done its job well, among other things, to which it has witnessed for 5 years in a row of positive business by Hina, which is the highest credit of course to the board of directors and directors. The Council has just held 9 sessions, of which 2 in electronic form. We consider them to have a quality discussion of all the points in their section, and in particular regarding Article 14. The Hina Act in accordance with the Statute and Rules of Procedure. So we accept this proposal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143170	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vukasanovic. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague of the Sun's Head, here you go. Individual colleagues, stay put. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ms. Majda Tafra Vlahovic was proposed by media experts, she worked as a journalist in Vjesnik, a journalist of foreign and internal politics, and I think we should say a few words, which is why she has all the qualifications, and I think that the real value will be added to the board of directors whose successes and failures we will discuss on another occasion. She worked on radio and television, taught journalism at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Zagreb, after journalism worked for more than 16 years as a manager at UNICER and Coca Cola, graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, completed a Ph.D. at the Faculty of Information at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zadar, and graduated in postgraduate from the University of Cambridge with a degree in intersectoral partnership for sustainable development and in a postgraduate study at the same university with a degree in sustainable business. She also graduated from the authorised Institute for Public Relations in London with a degree in public relations, completed her postgraduate specialisation at the authorised Institute for Public Relations in London and is the only one in Croatia who has a certificate from the Institute for Authorised Public Relations. She has published over 50 scientific and professional papers in the field of journalism, public relations, management and socially responsible business and participated in more than 100 scientific and professional meetings and internal and external educations in UN and Coca-Cola systems. She was educated in science at universities in Cambridge and Oxford, and in Turin and at the UN centre in Geneva. She is a permanent associate of the UN organisation, member of the editorial board of the International Scientific Journal of Communication Management in London, member of the authorised Institute for Public Relations in London, member of the European Association for Public Relations Research, member of the International Organisation for Social Responsibility, Economy in London and the International Association for Public Relations, members of the Croatian Public Relations Association and Association of Business Advisors at the Croatian Employers Association, is a member of the Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development and member of the Association of Business Advisors, she is a professor at the University of Dubrovnik, University of the North. Prof. Dr. Majda Tafra Vlahovic speaks 5 languages, is used in speech and letter in English, Russian, Spanish, French and Italian languages for which she has international diplomas, and is a judicial interpreter for English, Spanish and Russian. I think this is an impressive CV and that the choice of the Government is very good according to everything we think is a great choice for the board of directors of Hina, to possess all professional competences and knowledge, and we expect it to contribute to the work of the Governing Council of Hina, important agencies, but also to its improvement in work. And of course, as my colleague said, the HDZ Club supports this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was unanimously supported by the Media Committee, which I personally support because of all this I have stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143172	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sunny Glavak, for this debate and this quality and commendable information about the candidate. I'm closing the debate. I thank another Secretary of State to Mr.../incomprehensible/... The Polish explanation of the decision-making proposal. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues with this have exhausted all the points of the agenda scheduled for today, we continue work tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. with the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Land Books, second reading, P.Z. Number 603. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session adjourned at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-06-0.u143173	(a) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency and (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate was concluded. In accordance with Article 12. The law on the Croatian News Agency, on each proposed article of the Governing Council, is voted individually, so I would first like to vote on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of Vladimir Lulic, a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, please vote. I find that most votes, 99 for and 8 abstentions have been decided as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I am secondly voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Majda Tafre Vlahovic as member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 99 for and 5 abstentions, have been decided as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
