ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146956	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will begin our work and as I announced yesterday afternoon we will begin with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 616 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed secretary of state at the MUP, Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146957	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to briefly present the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes this law so as to amend the Road Safety Act in order to raise the level of safety on Croatian roads, to reduce the number of killed, injured and material damages. We believe that the number of people killed on our roads is still extremely high despite all the efforts that are being made to reduce it in the last year in the Republic of Croatia was 7.7 people killed to 100,000 people while the EU average of 5 people killed to 100,000, and it is certainly necessary to pursue as few as possible in those countries that have the least dead in the EU, so about 3 to 100,000 people such as Sweden, Ireland, the Netherlands, Denmark and the UK. The Government of the Republic of Croatia finds by this final proposal that the current criminal sanctions, henceforth, have not yielded sufficient results to deter the perpetrator from repeating illegal behaviour and that those sanctions need to be tightened. We are particularly emphasising the problem of relapses, so the repetitions that we believe so far have not been sanctioned enough yet should give greater emphasis on the punishment of relapsers because they are both the worst and most severe traffic offences that have the most devastating consequences. We see that the behavior of a large number of drivers, it has been established and different surveys still do not, does not go towards road safety. In particular, we stress the improper use of mobile devices during driving, the non-binding of the safety belt, the illegal transport of children in vehicles. We believe that these amendments and amendments to the law will help reduce the number of traffic accidents and casualties in them, that we will draw closer to the goal set out in the National Road Safety Programme to cut the number of victims by the end of 2020 compared to 10 years earlier. We have come close but we have not yet reached that goal and we will work and we will take all measures and activities to get close to that goal and reduce the number of victims. We believe that, in addition to education and prevention, which should certainly be the first, but also the joint and coordinated work of all stakeholders affecting road safety, that these changes will affect the awareness of traffic participants about the need for strict compliance with traffic regulations and deter them from doing the most serious traffic offences again. Some new measures are also introduced, such as the temporary confiscation of vehicles to drivers who commit the most serious traffic offences, and thus the means of committing an offence is taken away and they are prevented from taking part in the traffic. Similarly, for the most serious infringements, it is proposed to prescribe the minimum duration of the protection measure for the prohibition of the management of motor vehicle dependence on, depending on the number of repeated infringements within the range prescribed by law or law, so within 3 years. We intend to simplify the verification of the number of negative misdemeanor points, safeguards and validity of the driver's license via the MUP website. More precisely, we define the provisions relating to the suspension of driving licences for drivers who have collected 9 or 12 negative misdemeanor points. The goal is also to achieve maximum in our plans, and that is 98% of the use of the safety belt in drivers and passengers in vehicles according to the national programme I mentioned earlier. Also, since the knowledge and skills of motor vehicle management on the roads come from laying down, from learning in auto school and passing exams, the aim is to increase the quality, transparency and objectivity in the process of passing tests from the scientific course of car management. Once again, I will repeat those 8 most serious violations that are proposed to increase fines, and these are those violations which, by doing so, result in the most severe accidents and the most severe consequences. So with the proposal of this law, with current 5 to 15 thousand kunas, penalties are increased to 10 to 20 thousand kuna for these 8 serious violations, which is driving in the opposite or forbidden direction of the highway, the fast road or the road intended exclusively for the transport of motor vehicles. Last year it was just, I'll just say, so number 39, that sounds like a small number of violations, but six people died in them. It's certainly one of the most difficult shops in the world. The next violation that will be sanctioned by this fine is an overrun of the permitted speed of movement in a populated place by more than 50km per hour. These violations last year were reported in 1243. And the reason, they were the reason for a total of 22% of traffic accidents. In those accidents, 158 people were killed or 49% of all died. The next offence sanctioned by these most severe penalties is the intentional passage through red light, i.e. passing through light without reduction, red light without reducing speed, increasing speed or passing through two or more red lights. Such violations in the past year have been reported by nearly 5,000 people, and as a result of such violations, 12 people were killed. Then this sanction is also provided for refusing to submit an examination to check whether there is alcohol or drugs in the body, so rejection of alcohol abuse, for example, and then driving under the influence of alcohol above 1.5 prominence, or drug-induced driving. Then drive the vehicle before the right to drive. In the last year, 8 thousand 258 of these violations or 1.1 were reported. So over 1% of the people who committed all the crimes were, they were persons who had no right to drive at all. Then vehicle management while driver's license has been suspended due to collected negative misdemeanor points. It is a 7-8, 8th vehicle management offence while the driver's license is withdrawn, while the driver is excluded from traffic or has been granted a temporary withdrawal of the driver's licence or a safeguard measure. Therefore, except for these most difficult works in transport, fines are increased significantly and for a violation of the use of the safety belt during the ride from the current 500 to 100 kuna. Last year, a total of 85,000 464 violations or 11.8% of the total number of violations were found and 31,000 770 were recorded in the first 5 months of this year. So it's by frequency a second offense after a speeding breach. It is particularly risky to carry children in a vehicle, and the proposal is to sanction the offence now with 1000 kuna, so far it has been a fine of 500 kuna. Three children were killed last year in traffic and 109 were seriously injured. We feel that we need to influence parents or parents who are responsible for children to be carried more responsibly in the vehicle. And at the end of these frequent misdemeanors, I would single out the improper use of a cell phone while driving. The penalty, therefore, is increasing from 500 to 1500 kuna. Last year, a total of 41 000 such violations or 5.7% of the total number of violations were found. We see that more and more people use their cell phone to talk and to check some apps and cause obvious use of mobile phones and cause traffic accidents that could certainly have been avoided in some places where in the flat areas of the road inexplicable crossings to the other side and so on. It is difficult to determine in any case whether the cell phone is the reason but if the exception is some kind of heart attack or stroke, then some difficult medical condition that could have occurred at that time obviously that what points to another offense is certainly an improper use of the cell phone while driving. In short, I have also stated the others, so the regulation of certain other measures such as safeguard measures, the increase of negative misdemeanor points in a certain range for a particular offence. I would point out here that exactly the maximum number of negative points for a particular offense, which is 6, says for the eight most severe violations I have pointed out at the outset. In short, I would like to make the difference between the first, the bill and the final bill. The debate that was held in this home amended Article 1 of this Law, so where is the definition of fast roads. Then, on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy, as well as individual representatives in the debate at the plenary session, Article 9 which prescribes a violation of the speed out of the settlement by more than 50 km has been amended. In the final draft of the law, only fines ranging from 5 to 15,000 are prescribed, so this remains from the bill, and is deleted and cancelled from the alternative rule of imprisonment for up to 60 days. So it's not in the final bill. At the proposal of the Legislative Committee, nomotechnical arrangements were carried out in Articles 18, 24, 38 and 55. On the proposal of the National Security Council Office, it is prescribed that vehicles of the Security Intelligence Agency shall be exempted from the provisions of Article 150 of this Act. In Article 40, the provision of information on persons who were driving a vehicle at the time of the infringement is specified if it was not driven by its owner, in order to reduce certain manipulations and to report that the vehicle is at that time or that day more persons, it is written about the corruption that will prevent such manipulations and, all in accordance with the case-law we wanted to translate into this law. It shall also be complemented in that Article 40 that the perpetrator of the offence, other than the costs of keeping the vehicle, shall bear the costs of moving the withdrawn vehicle. Certain remarks made by the working authorities and representatives could not be accepted, primarily those aimed at reducing the prescribed sanctions, so the applicant remains at the proposed sanctions or their level because we hold that in multiple offences, in the case of the most serious offences where there must be awareness that the offence seems to be appropriate and sanctioned. It was also not possible to accept the objection of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to introduce the possibility of giving two or more warnings prior to the sentence, in view of the provisions of the Criminal Code which prescribes that the warning is pronounced if it is found that an offence has been committed which has been imposed in a fine of up to 1000 kuna or in some other cases, so that when the offence is not caused by interference or endangerment of other traffic participants or if the offence has been particularly of an easy nature and the perpetrator has not previously committed similar offences and it can be expected that the statement of oral or written warning will achieve the purpose of punishment. We could not accept the proposals of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links regarding the reduction of age criteria for driving instructors, so they asked that driving instructors may be persons less than 24 years old because it is a training of other persons on driving a vehicle where a certain experience is needed in driving a particular life experience and given the other changes in this law that have been implemented, which were adopted at the end of 2017 due to compliance with the European Services Directive currently and according to the Croatian Autoclub data we have enough instructors and here we do not see a problem that we need to lower the age limit for driving instructors. In addition to these sanctions most discussed when this law is amended, and in the name of the promoter, I can say that it was by no means the aim of sanctions is merely punishment, but indeed a warning to those most hard-core perpetrators of the offence, and this is not about any violations, but about violations that very often lead to death, suffering and serious injuries, so that all other measures and actions, warnings and education did not bear fruit, so we consider it necessary for such persons to impose more severe sanctions which we believe will deter them from committing the most serious traffic offences. But the MUP, in cooperation with other bodies, works daily and persistently on preventive activities and police believe that it should act proactively to combat negative trends in road safety throughout the year, systematically work on preventive activities primarily to target the most vulnerable categories of persons and road users such as children, young drivers, pedestrians, cyclists, motorcycle drivers and elderly people. All of you are familiar with our actions Respect our signs that has become an irreplaceable part of the start of each school year in primary schools, traffic teacher is one web application for obtaining a traffic culture that has become part of civil courtesy among primary and high school students. With the Rod Association that we work with to protect children through car seats always and without exception we try to educate parents to use the car seat properly and increase the safety of their children in traffic. In collaboration with road companies, cities, municipalities and counties, many dangerous places have been remedied in the last 15 years, nearly 170 such places, so in those places where traffic accidents have been frequented and people have been injured, no more traffic accidents have been reported since the recovery in those places. Of course, in order to be able to carry out quality road safety surveillance, the police need both more modern and better equipment and devices, than speed control devices over enough vehicles, other devices such as alcometers, cameras, drug testicles, motorcycle uniforms and helmets, reflecting vests, ropes, measuring carts, etc., all those equipment used by traffic police in road safety surveillance. In this sense, a certain number of fixed vehicle speed control devices currently in place at 28, and there are 62 cabinets and housings, so there are currently 59 fixed devices and 22 housings that will be placed in the area of all police administrations and stations, currently these fixed, stationary cameras are located in the 6 police administrations of Zagrebačka, Split-Dalmatia, Primorje-Gorski, Osijek-Baranja, Karlovak and Varazdinska. There are also 76 manual devices for measuring vehicle speed movements at a further stage. All of our activities, our activities, can't deliver results unless they include the broadest circle of institutions, as well as associations and individuals. It is especially important that when the driver finishes his education and education for the driver, when he passes the driver's exam to the maximum possible extent that he is trained for self-manage of the vehicle, so the quality of the work of the car school is very important to us, the safety of the vehicle through the technical examinations that we hold fitly organized in the Republic of Croatia, so we should continue to work hard to have as high-quality correct vehicles as possible, that we have better roads, but all this is expensive if an individual when he sits behind the wheel and is involved in the traffic not mentally prepared and healthy and aware of the dangers he carries. Although we continue to be deeply affected by data that the police almost daily publishes about the number of alcoholic drivers for the driver of their vehicle, these numbers are being reduced, but obviously not enough to significantly affect road safety. Therefore, education, but when education and prevention do not result in a certain number of persons, it is certainly a smaller number of people, a smaller number of drivers, it is also necessary to prescribe appropriate sanctions and then sanctions in fast-track procedures and apply in a legal manner. Therefore, other than the MUP and the criminal courts to which such cases occur, they should be carried out within a specified period of time and levelen their practice that whenever they come with a certain accusation that they know that they will be adequately punished in accordance with the severity of the infringement they have committed. I can say with some satisfaction, however, that the results of road safety in this year are better than in the same period last year, in the first six months and 10 days we have 128 deaths, unfortunately, but that is 29 people less than on the same day last year or about 18%. It's one shift, but it's absolutely not enough to make our roads safe and not be a place where irresponsible individuals will live and endanger other people's lives. As representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I invite you to bring our proposals to the best possible law. I repeat again is not the goal of sanctioning people, no one wants to, no government wants to resent people, but if the choice between neglect and reduction is the number of deaths, this government has decided to put an end to irresponsible individuals and reduce the number of victims on Croatian highways. Here on behalf of the government, I ask you to help us with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146958	Thank you very much. We have a very long list of replicas. Absolutely the first to come forward, respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic, he raised the board even before the secretary of state began to speak. Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146959	Thank you, thank you. Dear Mr Katic, every law, including this one, has some good suggestions that we from the party change Croatia. However, I don't think you're going to prevent these fines of 20, 30 thousand kunas from hanging drivers who either have millions who are rich or their children from repeating the most severe violations and killing people on the road. Those in relation to the money that they have 30 grand doesn't mean anything. If you take away their car, they can buy a new car tomorrow or a few other cars like that. So we from the party We change Croatia and ask you on behalf of the citizens to sanction them and treat them like American police officers, they are murderers on the road, that you approach them. And please tell me by the statistics of those for whom it was intended, the public drivers who were supposed to go to jail, how many of them ended up there, or were replaced by some fines or were released before.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146960	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146961	Your Honor, I repeat these most severe sanctions are provided for those of the most hard-core perpetrators. As you know, driving a car has become a felony and is provided for in the Penal Code. I can't tell you the numbers at this point, but the figure against those ruthless drivers must indeed be persistent and without mercy. Those who sow death on the roads must be adequately sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146962	The next replica is the respected representative Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146963	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, it is hard to agree with such a bill that brings such drastic punishments to all Croatian citizens drivers especially in these conditions where people live with 3 to 7 thousand kunas in the most part. And I think it will cause a great dissatisfaction for the citizens of the driver towards the police, according to the policy and towards us who are passing this law. But I think the fines have been pretty high so far, pretty good. And the contribution to this is that the place was paid 50% means it's already been reduced to make it a little easier for people or if you're paying, I don't know how to pay, then 2/3, which means the penalty is already big. Well, I agree entirely with this, for the retreaders, for the alcoholics, for the arrogant, dangerous drivers, to raise this. And I agree with this part of the sentence that it didn't just go to these other citizens, so for a belt where a man doesn't endanger another and increase the penalty to 1000 kuna I think it's really too much and it won't contribute to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146964	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146965	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. Because during the first reading between these two readings, and here we hear today in the debate, i.e. the replicas, a lot of controversy was about height, actually punishment, and the question is whether they are too high or not. I am particularly interested in whether there is a comparison with the levels of penalties with other European countries or countries in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146966	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146967	Dear Representative, penalties, the level of penalties in relation to the EU countries is similar or smaller in our country and compared to the countries, the environments are higher. There are bigger sanctions. We are responsible here for the state of our country. Of course, we cannot be blind and deaf and not compare ourselves with others, we need to see the good experiences of other countries and apply them to us. Perhaps it is a further way to introduce a catalogue of penalties so that for certain offences depending on the excess if it is little to be punished, therefore much less and to grow proportionally with an increase in speed or with a relapser, I do not know first or second, the first or second violation of the same kind to be punished less. We have certain such, situation and now in our law but maybe it's, uh... The goal is to build on it in the future, and to make a more subtle distinction between those who are not aware of it than those who consciously and persistently do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146968	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So respected secretary of state, so statistically the least and most secure form of traffic both outside and in Europe and with us are Croatian highways. So you're saying that by changing... You want to contribute to traffic safety and as few deaths as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the most expensive highway in Europe, so that it would be one of the contributions of reducing therefore fatalities to encourage Croatian citizens through the price, so lower prices on the highway. So we have a case that Croatian citizens simply don't have money for Croatian highways, use state roads that are much more insecure and I think there is a key to the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146970	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146971	Thank you very much. The Honorable secretary's aim is noble, but not all of them can be aware of punishment. As counterpart Sladolov said, we have Croatian highways, highways that are the most expensive in Europe, and with this people take alternative roads, e.g. State Road D1. So we have on the busiest road, the D state road where there are the most accidents and where safety is not solved either in populated places or nogosts. Like. The roundabout in Sinj. A circular current that's complicated, where there's a traffic jam, where kids go to school. That is the problem, the problem is that Croatia obviously and only survives to fill the state budget. I am for sanctions, but traffic safety needs to be regulated in a completely different way, and this government needs to be subject to these priorities, not just charging for a highway crash... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146972	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146973	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I agree with you, that you should sanction especially those who are repeaters. But at the same time, we have to unload our local roads, and here with my colleague Bulj, which means that the highway prices are too high, that there's too much load on the local roads. And I have to mention here's the very direct Podravska highway that there are some illogicalities in setting up the signs themselves. The signs were placed significantly before we still had Fitz, the hundreds, everything, that it was impossible to sign from 90 and the limit went down to 40. And there's always standing, now the cameras and the police are set up but it's amazing that, the illogicalities are in the setting of signs itself. So we should check where the signs are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146974	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146975	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. So we're dealing with penalties and their heights here today, at least from these replicas, we're not really talking about the consequences that are happening to us in our traffic, or through our transport culture. So as far as I've seen the study has shown that almost 10% of the victims were only killed because of the use of the cell phone, translated into numbers would mean that in fact 21 people's lives we could have saved if they hadn't used phones. And also related to the transport or unprofessional transport of children in transport where mortality is also high. So I certainly welcome the suggestions you refused from the first reading, regardless of some saying that our social economic situation is not favourable because of such penalties, but that is why those who drive should not commit violations and then should not be afraid of such penalties. But I would agree only with Mr. Karlic for some sentences that do not endanger life I think should be reduced, which are not so much... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146976	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146977	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry. Last year, 316 people died on our roads. According to the National Road Safety Programme, the aim is to reduce the death to 213 by 2020. The death toll in Croatia is 77 people per million people while in Europe the average is 49 people. This is only relatively, the absolute number is higher because in Croatia lives much less than 4 million inhabitants. I'll mention the notion of overspeed. In many places, on state, county, local roads are signs of a speed limit from the past when we were driving south, stalls with tiger tires. Now roads and vehicles are far higher standards, and I think traffic experts should review the restrictions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146978	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146979	Dear Secretary of State, my question is do you know that so far it has been possible to confiscate the vehicle or the means to carry out the crime. You stressed that this is about a new definition, the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, the withdrawal of the vehicle, and so far there has been a measure which the court could apply to both traffic offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146980	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146981	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, it was also through the Violation Act as an opportunity to confiscate the vehicle as an instrument of acting, but I think we've now arranged it much more transparently and clearly and that such provisions will be much better applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146982	The next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146983	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, comparison of the level of penalties in Croatia with EU countries must start from comparing Croatia's salaries to EU countries. So we can't talk about absolute amounts, we can only talk about relative amounts how much of a citizen's salary that kind of punishment, how many percent it takes. The aim of the law is to reduce between others and deaths which is certainly good, and none of us in the House have anything against it. But what I'm saying is that it seems to me that the law rests primarily on repression, on high sentences, and as police know very well, prevention is, in fact, the key to resolving these issues. So more in my opinion, it would mean that a police vehicle travels from Zagreb to Karlovac or from Karlovac to Zadar and thus slows down traffic, i.e. harmonizes with the speed prescribed rather than prescribing large penalties and hunting them on the highway. Equally, setting up those boxes we have on the roadway in Split, Rijeka, in Zagreb has significantly matched the speed of traffic with signs, i.e. with regulations. A lot more than just lifting tickets and letting people on highways or bypasses like El Dorado. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146984	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146985	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, by law, we can only impose penalties by law. As soon as we have decided to change the law, this segment should therefore be brought into line with the real situation and with the needs. All the other things that you've talked about and that I support and stand for are done through our preventive activities. We'll definitely accept certain suggestions. The continued work of the police is being improved and in any case the visibility of the police and their participation, visibility on our highways and roads contributes to greater security. We will certainly not ignore that, but I repeat for those most persistent perpetrators of the most serious offenses, we see no other way but stricter punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146986	The next replica is the respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146987	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, young drivers are one of the most common categories of drivers that cause car accidents or are victims of the same. Have you dealt with this category enough in this legislative proposal? Also, I welcome the increase in sanctions, some of the increases in sanctions relating to the non-binding of belts in children, but I think it is necessary to carry out continuous education of children involved in traffic and not just at the beginning of the school year as usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146988	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146989	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I think that we will all or at least most agree that for the safety of traffic with driver behaviour, both roads and vehicles are important. Also, speaking of this subject, I think we should all do it, but just to reduce the number of accidents, especially with injured and fatalities. In order to achieve that goal, a little and judicial practice may need to be changed. In 2017, according to the MUP report, 752, 752,785 infringements were found, parallel to that in the 2017 DORH report, that only 1,604 were reported for traffic safety or only 28 criminal charges for hanging driving of 0.003%. Therefore, I believe that this part of the crime should be done as well. A little work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146990	The next replica is the respected representative of Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146991	Thank you very much. The Secretary-General of State, since the Ministry has not received any proposals from the Government Committee for Persons with Disabilities until the final amendment proposal and the addition of this law, that it should look like Article 40, I know that you could not have completely changed it. You have amended paragraph 3 in that article and I welcome it. However, I ask you to plan to amend this article as soon as you receive a proposal from the government's commission, given that this is extremely important. In particular, we welcome that the Minister of Transport will adopt a regulation, but certainly not with the agreement of the Ministry of Health, because regarding the sign of accessibility, the same Ministry of Health has no authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146992	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146993	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State so I would just say that the fines are good if they have an effect on the reduction of the number of victims on the roads, but I think the penalty for talking on the phone is that. The phone when today is the opportunity to have a bluetooth in your car talk all the way to the ride, etc. From 500 to 1,500 kuna is dramatically increased and will not do any I mean significant effects. In the environment and in Europe in Germany, let's say EUR 60, we put it at EUR 200. I think that three times increase the penalty is in vain and there are no effects, and I think we should accept the amendment to reduce it to what's right, and that's 1,000 kuna, and when it's paid in 3 days, that's 500 kuna, so it would be the same as before. I don't think it's gonna change the law or jurisdiction, it won't reduce the number of accidents, and The citizens of each other's standards are actually different. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146994	Thank you. If the rapporteur wants an answer, the esteemed secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146995	I replied to the respected representative Djakic that not using mobile devices is absolutely forbidden, holding in hands is forbidden, so if there is bluetooth, handsfree etc. It is allowed, so we invite citizens to properly if they have to, if necessary, use properly, and certainly avoid improper use of cell phones.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146996	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I'm opening up, oh, excuse me, the Honorable President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146997	Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security made more remarks on the first one, during the first reading of the law. Those in one part have been accepted, but on the other hand the provisions relating to the setting of the signs that has been highlighted today in the discussion on the board, the issue of dragon penalties, etc., have been left without the right answers. And for that reason, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security gave no support to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146998	Thank you very much. I am now opening the debate, and we also have the chairman of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, respected Peru Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u146999	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament at the 41st session held on 10 July discussed this Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, second reading, the report was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament, it is on the mail and only to inform that the vote was held, 5 for, 1 abstention and 1 v, so that we propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Final Proposal of the Road Safety Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147000	Thank you very much. I would now open the debate and the first on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative, Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147001	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, since in the first reading there we have already made almost all the remarks on the bill and we have largely not agreed with this proposal, which is almost exclusively in the direction that the Dracon punishments of offenders, and relatively little or almost nothing is working on prevention and our key issue, or my key question, I am one of those and one of them, respectively, who was against the adoption of this law on the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, which means the key question is whether this defacto is going to be the only increase, the dragon increase in penalties for individual infringements to achieve the goal, or achieve what the Government is proposing, which is to reduce the number of deaths because it is believed that these are the main culprit that these deaths have occurred. I did not receive an answer, or I received an answer about whether or not these statistics for the Republic of Croatia will change. These statistics are not good, it is a fact, these statistics are among the worst in the EU, and we certainly care about the repair and the classification of those who can boast of a high degree of road safety. However, we have the view that with the dragon penalties that are measured with the richest countries or societies in the EU, and at that level, we simply won't get that result, and that some people who get that punishment because unfortunately with us, the biggest problem is to rarely get the punishment and get it addressed and get paid and it's the biggest problem, because at this point we have the law, we have the punishment, we have the possibility, so that people and we warn and sanction and it doesn't work for us. No one can tell me that someone has taken 500,00 or 1,000,00 kn for some of these violations, which is the case today, before the adoption of this new law that it is small, it is a lot for an average citizen today unless you have written this law for parliamentary representatives and ministers and high officials and managers by banks who will pay for such penalties if they commit such violations or have someone on the phone who will be called to put those penalties in a drawer, that is another problem, that is the problem of corruption that we do not adequately solve and that is why we are all unhappy. So we believe that the law in this form and with these proposals will not produce results or will not realise the goal it has set for itself, and the primary goal is to reduce the number of deaths. So after I heard a whole series of replicas on the side of the position that are clearly not quite happy with the bill, not only because it is the height of the penalty, but because it is not likely to get those results, or the goal it has set for itself. I think it's time for a more comprehensive approach to the problem and not only to change this law, but to find a solution in a cross-cutting way how through a whole series of action plans and strategies, to solve this problem or to reduce the number of deaths in transport. It is, of course, a job that is much longer and more comprehensive and cannot be done the way you suggest here. This is probably something that I can only assume is not a reason to charge the budget, but to somehow protect the police or the MUP from this rough statistics, so it's probably going to happen, however, that by scaring a little bit of the number of violations, that the police as such will be freed from one part of the job, and we know that we have a problem with the police, em are low wages, which means that the police would act preventively and qualitatively, prevent them from being more employees than they are today, and they must, of course, have more adequate salaries for the work they do if they expect to do it properly and properly. This is either not possible or we do not want to make such a political decision that it is so, so with this drastic increase in the statistics somehow, it will turn into one equalist, few people will be more intimidated, the police will be less, of course not have to do the job in which they should and will all be satisfied, so we will fall to seven, six dead, which is our goal because somewhere the average is at EU level, and this is a tragedy, we should bring positive laws, we should be making laws that look at the ground, basically and that solve it in this case inter-resordinarily where many more shares will have and the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, we know that as a state we have made major shifts, and then there has been a drastic decline in the number of deaths when we have made the peninsulas and highways in the larger volume, but our road safety at the level of the local roads, and I mean that most of roads in the local roads are known to the local ones, and the local ones. There were a whole series of proposals, yesterday we had a long discussion quite a lot on the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee which should do everything, which should all be done is a very large number of proposals, people we're all almost drivers, so we have, we've noticed a whole series of gaps that we have on the roads from signalling inadequate, since there hasn't been any change in that system of speed limits, that today cars like spaceships are now compared to the time when the rules on these speed limits are passed, etc., etc. So, colleagues have spoken in local self-government about how local self-government can contribute, but of course the ministries have to, they must try to see and finance certain projects and how to implement them in cooperation with local self-government. There were talks about cameras that were increasingly sophisticated today, so a colleague of the local self-government presented the information, asked experts to calculate what time-limit the funds invested in such a single camera they obtained was, if they only had 3, they had results that if they had only 3% of the penalties recorded and charged through that camera, they would pay for a camera worth 380,000 kuna within 18 months. Now, if it would be worth it, so said my colleague here's what he said I'm transferring, if that's what it is, and then I don't think I know what we're waiting for to cover all the black spots in Croatia, this one, and then what time would it be worth to the state, if in 18 months with 3%, it pays to the local self-government. So, there's a whole series of things that can be prevented, and we've felt that dragonishly we raise 5, 6, 7 types of offenses, not really and from this pay phone at any point, I don't want to, or justify it, or escape from having to be a dragon penalty for a life-threatening offense. To be clear, we don't have that doubt, but as a society and as a state, we have to do everything we can and what's objective that we can do before we introduce these kind of punishments. And I think as a Croatian Parliament, I see that a lot of my colleagues here are saying in replicas I am pleasantly surprised to admit, given my position yesterday, where I was the only one against this law, that maybe there is hope, so the GLAS Club is going to not drag some of the others into political doubts, suggest that this law be withdrawn now from the procedure and go into one amendment not to the law, only to this law, but to all the laws that affect this issue. I won't go any further because I don't have the time to give a whole series of examples where we could make significant shifts, but since our roads and highways have those who take care of them, or concessionaries, those on those roads can be much, much done for safety, most of us driving the highways, time before season or season is now under way, there are big crowds and crazy things we do, crazy things. So, those who run and maintain these roads a little bit of hair, change the bumpers a little bit, close half those roads, the other day was a huge accident just because of the slaughter on the part of the river bypass where several cars participated, it could have been 5.6 7 people killed and maybe more, fortunately it didn't happen. So, let's go and let them see how in Austria hair is and I don't know in Germany and they hair around their roads so it doesn't work so that 5, 6 km, 10 km of highways closes to turn into one-way, it's terribly dangerous when they're of course big crowds, when one part of the participants in traffic can't manage because the foreigners, where the exit, where the entrance, where everyone, has, are all handled by this GPS that is of course not familiar with how our concessionaries and when our concessionists are hair, change the bumpers, draw horizontal signals, etc., no. So there's a whole series of things that should be affected before they bring in these dragon sentences that won't get results. What we're all sensitive to, of course, are children, but what may personally threatens traffic is, in fact, the people who are sitting behind the wheel under the influence of alcohol, and I don't know how the penalties will affect those people who are willing to do it, because we know what a man who is drunk is, here approximately doesn't listen to himself or anyone around him, and even less thinks about the laws and how much punishment follows him. So that's one part of the population that's going to get us right under the radar and where absolutely there won't be any effect on what we prescribed when he sobered up. So I also think that the proposal, I think we will, that we're going to make a proposal to pull this off and get a little more comprehensive into this problem in a way that we can solve the problem from the root, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147002	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party and the Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the Honored Representative, Rechimer Varda, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147003	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I prepared a brief discussion as usual, but I would refer to the debate so far, as if we were having a debate in the first reading and the subject of this final proposal of the law is actually repressive measures for offenders of the Road Safety Act. I fully agree that safety should be increased on local, county and state roads, that these road cruises, trucks, lorries, etc. should be directed. On the highways, that's what Slovenians do. I don't know what we're waiting for. First, it would bring more profits to the Croatian highways and secondly, would increase traffic safety. And thirdly, I agree that we have traffic signs, I often drive along the state road to Sibenik or Split via Plitvice, Slunja, etc., listen, you have places where you have 80 and 40 and 50 meters apart, so we don't really drive any more Fitz or drive Yuga. You can't stop a car that has no idea how many kilowatts or horses, so at a speed of 80, you can reduce it to 40 without putting yourself and possibly other traffickers at risk. However, this is not the subject of this law, this bill, I would like to refer to it. When we talk about dragon punishments, please, and who's making us pay the fine? Who's making us do this? Why do we stick to traffic signs in Slovenia and why do Slovenians not adhere to Croatia? If I go down the highway, believe me, I drive 150, 160, push a little bit... So if I get caught, they catch me, if they don't get caught, well, it's no big difference, so I'm gonna pay half the fine, but I'm gonna have a Slovenian run by me at 200, if not 230, shakes my car and it's not easy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when I talk about penalties, then we're not just talking about who's going to pay them, we're talking about her being a reminder to all those who break traffic regulations and that she's going to be in a position to pay that punishment. I ask you again, why in Slovenia, in Austria, in Germany do we not drive on our roads? Why aren't we doing this? How are we disciplined there? Because you need to take the euro out of your pocket, there's no mercy there, and there's not even half the penalty if you pay on the spot, pay your brother, so you drive or you're out of a car. Guys, this is a repressive measure. We can't get away from it. The repression against tough drivers who cause death and even others in traffic and this repressive measure must remain. I agree that you need prevention, I know that and we have them, I know that we have and the camera just please for privacy, mark the places where the cameras are, it will also reduce the speed, the man will warn that the camera is recording it. This way I don't know where they are, I drive and then it's just the purpose of punishment. If they're not marked then there's no prevention. And you have to keep an eye on that. Mark the cameras as you mark the snow on the road, works on the road, etc., mark the cameras. And second or fifth, anyway, work during the season, so please, on highways in the tourist season, that's terrible. That's really scary. I don't know if it's a matter of income, which is a problem, I can understand that they're cutting grass but I can't understand that a few miles of asphalt is changing in the high season. I can't understand that. And it does cause insecurity in traffic. But let me go back to the final proposal of the law itself. So, when you take the statistics that are set out in the proposal, your hair gets heavy especially when it comes to children and I, and the club I belong to will vote for this bill even if it can mean repression but repression and where the biggest fines are provided, for the sake of the public, I'll just mention them. Driving in the opposite direction on the highway. My people, how can you drive in the opposite direction? Either you're drunk or you're high. Or you're completely unconscious. Secondly, overspeed is more than 50 km in the populated area, but please take care of these traffic signs. It's not again, not to mention, it's not Fitz or Yuga anymore. The intentional passage through the red light, that's where I'm just afraid because it writes intentional passage through the red light, discretionary officer's grades. Because if we want to consistently implement these measures that should result in greater traffic security, then they must be fully objective. Completely objective. You want to settle it with a rule book or something, I don't know, but they have to be objective, they can't be at the will of a cop who stops me and says you're on purpose. Maybe I didn't mean to. Maybe I couldn't stop the car. Just like I say in this law, it's missing. What about the unconscious pedestrians? And they're involved in traffic. What about the unconscious cyclists? And they're involved in traffic. There's no punishment for them. Please, where there's no traffic lights or even where there's a traffic lights in your ears, your cell phone in front of you, step forward. And you're responsible as a driver. And for him there's no punishment, there's no cop on the zebra. What about them? And I'm telling you, let's not let the young men resent me from... Buses to the roads themselves, crossings, ears, headphones, cell phones, step up and you're thinking now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Step, green, red, no traffic lights, it doesn't matter. He neither sees you nor hears you. What about the pedestrians? There is no punishment for them and you strike him or you nick him you are responsible because you have not adapted to the conditions on the road. And that's the problem. Refusal of alcohol and drugs testing, drug and alcohol driving. It's suicide, not just suicide, it's a potential killer. Driving before gaining the right to drive. He doesn't even know the traffic signs. Either for driving while the driver's license has been suspended or suspended. So for these is the most severe and the greatest penalty of all; so let him who does not respect it bear it. Whether these measures will result in the reduction of deaths especially of children and in the absence of binding or not the appropriate seat or so on in the car, I hope that, if we are consistent, we will consistently apply these penalties. But I note without discretion from a police officer and under the obligation to label the cameras on the roads. It's very important, it's a preventive measure. If I don't know that the cameras are set I drive, but if I know and someone informed me that the cameras exist, on the highway or on the state or local or county and then I'll adjust to driving so you don't catch me in the camera, it's a preventive measure. The mere fact that in Croatia, compared to Scandinavian countries, 7.7 per 100 thousand, and 3 dead people in themselves speak quite enough. And I think that statistics and our behaviour on Slovenian, Austrian or German roads show that consistent application of monetary and other penalties achieves the goal with all these preventive measures so that I do not tend to talk much. The Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club will adopt this Proposal for a final Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147004	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of IDS, PGS and RI in the name of which they will speak the respected representative Emil Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147005	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The black statistics on our roads are alarming, unfortunately it almost doesn't pass the day without hearing news of heavy traffic accidents, unfortunately some of them and with fatal consequences. It is unquestionable that such a negative trend should be put to rest and more urgent. However, it is questionable whether only punishment will affect compliance with traffic rules and compliance with the legal provisions in transport. And can I really just harsher penalties reduce the number of people killed on the roads? Well, we now have relatively high fines for traffic violations and yet a large number of traffic casualties. We believe that the key education is one that will change the awareness of the driver, which is that they respect the rules of traffic and that they do not commit violations because what we lack is a transport culture which, let's be honest, does not exist in Croatia or at least there is not enough. On our roads we can often see drivers with no feelings or attention to passing ambulances or firefighters. In the summer we can often see a ride along the stop lane on the highways during the crowds, then the latest Sunday example from highway A6 removing its cars under the overpass and tunnel. Such examples can lead to severe tragedies, and it is hard to believe that such a thing is happening on the roads at all, but it is happening. In addition, there were just before words, cyclists act as though bicycles were cars, riding neatly in the middle of the lane, while most of them have headphones in their ears, pedestrians regularly switch to red light. We therefore hold that education of motorists, cyclists, and pedestrians would be far more effective than punishment. We think that the problem should be cut at the root, so all the strength should be focused on education, and it should be from kindergarten to schools and only later on through auto school. It would be necessary and crucial to create awareness that the violations should not be committed because the problem is that, for example, today, he commits an offence and concludes that the police did not catch him in the act and repeat it. Because the traffic police can't see and sanction everything and neither can they, unfortunately, have enough. People simply think they won't be caught committing a crime, that they'll get away with it, and there's a basic problem. It must be that people do not think in such a wrong way astronomical punishment in itself as such will not change such thinking and such habits. We think it's a basic task. And besides education, of course, it's also very important to prevent. Prevention is not a repression, so I believe that after education, work should be done to prevent and not to impose penalties. In order not to make it all a matter of filling the state budget, it is very useful, but also instructive to place a warning that the camera is located in the immediate vicinity of the cameras, as he said before. Then that camera would make more sense because the purpose is not to punish someone for committing a crime, but rather to prevent them from committing it at all. Of course, we have problems with the old rolling stock in Croatia. People don't have money for newer, safer cars, and that's why the tragedy with the most severe consequences happens. Unfortunately, we haven't once witnessed by experts that the victim had a safer car, the consequences wouldn't have been so difficult. There have been words today, and I agree that safety is some road, not just some but many very questionable because of their perseverance. So to recap, there are more factors that affect traffic accidents and traffic deaths that only major penalties for a crime cannot and will not change. As for the legal solution, I'm afraid the law will only have a short-term effect. The problem is that everything will already be according to the old Croatian recipe. At first, everyone will comply with the provisions, and after a certain time, everything as it is. People get used to punishment very quickly, unfortunately, that is, how to avoid them and go back to the way they were. The problem will certainly be the payment of those fines. The question of how someone unemployed or with small incomes, pensions, will pay a fine of several thousand kunas. I'm talking, of course, about those easy violations, the ones I find most difficult to judge. He probably won't be able to pay for it. To make things worse, we have often witnessed that the actors of the most severe car accidents were already well known to the police with dozens of violations committed. We can conclude that such drivers, or relapsers, have already paid some kind of punishment, that their driver's license was taken from them, but it hasn't changed them, it hasn't forced them to change their behavior. In conclusion, the greater punishments are not a solution in themselves because they do not, unfortunately, change their consciousness. One is what it looks like on paper and the other is in practice. The law will be difficult to implement, and hard to enforce law doesn't make much sense. Since it's about human lives, it's definitely not a topic in which we need to share ourselves here, clearly, but we need to focus all our strengths to find a good legal solution that will have an effect in the long run, but other than the laws themselves, which is much, much more important, we all need to build together a system that will create a different environment in society, where the system of values will be different, where the culture of the participants in transport, but also culture will generally be at a much higher level than previously. It's not enough for this one. It's much more than that. And finally, the IDS Club will submit one amendment to the article. 35. where, in section 6, the words of an authorised interrogator with a candidate for a driver within the test vehicle would be replaced by the words within the test vehicle and within vehicle B of the category to be monitored for the A1, A2 or AM category, as this change would allow for communication between the authorised investigator in the vehicle, accompanied by the candidate for the driver who operates the motorcycle or moped as the test vehicle and the applicant, to be carried out in the course of the test. This would also allow communication with candidates outside the vehicle, which is not enabled by this final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147006	Thank you. The next representative is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Petar Skoric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147007	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State and Chief. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Almost every day, unfortunately, we meet with numerous signs in black media chronicles from all parts of Croatia concerning road accidents. Such situations are evidence of poor transport culture in Croatian society, knowingly non-compliance with the rules, mostly perceptions that these regulations do not concern individuals and that they are above them, that it is easier to pay for a symbolic punishment than to change the way they drive and their own habits. By observing the proposed amendments and additions to the law at first sight, it is noticeably according to which these changes are primarily directed and are primarily directed towards relapsers, people who often violate road safety regulations in the most difficult ways, thereby bringing all other road users to death. There is a visible disproportionateity between the number of such offenders and the number of most serious forms of infringements committed in this regard, which is precisely a sign that the legal changes must be directed at them. If they can't and don't want to change their own bad habits and traffic failures, that's where the state and these amendments and the additions to the law are going to be involved. These changes and are complemented by a response to the multiannual requirements, not only of traffic and security experts, but also of all citizens seeking stricter sanctioning of the most serious traffic offences. These measures introduced by these amendments and amendments are repressive, but their purpose is not repressive nor is the aim of these changes filling the budget as some want to say already the purpose of both general and special preventive. What else do we meet regularly? So driving during the duration of the ban on driving, non-use of the safety belt, illegal transport of children in vehicles, driving in an alcoholic state as well as regular and frequent use of mobile devices during driving, as shown by one of the biggest distractions in motor vehicle management and thus one of the biggest causes of traffic accidents in Croatia today. According to a research carried out as part of a project co-financed by the National Road Safety Programme, a day without a mobile, as many as 91% of drivers telephone during driving, and unfortunately, 33% of cyclists seem almost amazing. What is important to point out, so after that study 55% of drivers showed a willingness to change such a habit when the penalties planned would be more severe. The fact that we have to fight such habits that cause a significantly reduced concentration enables a large increase in the number of traffic accidents. The aim is indeed to adjust the amount of penalties to the severity of these violations, and these consequences are great. The penalty so far for using a cell phone, so it's proposed in a triple amount, I personally think it's too large, to be enough in double amount and to achieve a purpose and to safely reduce the use of a cell phone. The proposed changes and additions introduce a differentiation within the breach of provisions concerning the passage through red light at a traffic light or proposed that it will be more difficult to sanction the passage through a red light that includes, above all, the intention, as well as the passing without slowing down, or by speeding or passing through two or more red lights, while the lesser punishment will be to pass through a red light which is obviously a product of carelessness and did not lead to more serious consequences. The introduction of such a subjective criterion in measuring the penalty for this serious offence is precisely showing the general preventive purpose of these amendments and additions and that the aim is not equal to punishing everyone, but above all changing bad habits and particularly punishing rude negligence, or in the worst cases and intentions in committing this serious offence. Another problem with which this proposal is being amended and the law supplemented is driving in an alcoholic state or driving under the influence of an opiate that is one of the main causes of the most severe traffic accidents with the most severe consequences. This is particularly decisive to be put to the end, and the proposed changes are exactly going in this direction. What most looks at is the preventive purpose of the proposed changes and the addition is to increase the duration of the protection measures for the prohibition of the management of the motor vehicle. Two categories have also been introduced around the duration of that protection measure in the case of the most serious offences such as traffic on the freeway and on the fast road, when passing through red light or driving under the influence of drugs and alcohol. According to this proposal, if a second infringement is committed, the duration of the safeguard measure shall be prescribed within at least 6 months, while for the third and next time a period and longer shall be prescribed, i.e. from the shortest of 12 months. Also included in the law is the maximum amount of protection measures taken under the Criminal Code, which is even 3.g. bans on the management of motor vehicles, for minor infringements, the duration is set at a lower amount. The proposed provisions also introduce a new system of measuring negative points for offenders of road safety provisions, which is precisely aimed at frequent repeaters of the most serious traffic offences. This system will have a significant impact on the awareness of such offenders because in the event of frequent infringements, they can lead to the final withdrawal of the driver’s licence and the re-suspending of the traffic and driving exams. So far, the maximum number of points for each offense has been 3 and with this proposal, the number doubles and goes to 6 negative points. A vehicle owned or owned by an irresponsible person, persons who in the most difficult ways are in breach of the rules on road safety indeed ceases to be only a means of transport, but becomes a weapon, a weapon that directly endangers all road users. It is precisely because this proposal provides for a special measure to amend and supplement, which is a measure of confiscation of the vehicle which was the means of committing the offence. Two things consider the importance of this provision. First, in the motor vehicle in which such serious offences have been committed, fully correct treatment, arms treatment and general dangerous substances are given which directly threatens the safety of all road users in the hands of the wrong person. And secondly, this is encouraged and appealed to a kind of responsibility of the owner of the motor vehicle which is a bit unfortunately and forgotten, which is the responsibility of thinking to whom this vehicle is given for use, whether the person receiving the vehicle is responsible enough and capable of driving. Each owner of the vehicle is obliged to know who he gives his vehicle to and whom he trusts to use and to examine whether that person has the necessary minimum knowledge and ability at that time so that he does not indeed make a weapon and endanger the participants in the vehicle. This is especially important for rent-a-cars, so with this ability to see and in the state of the code, in the traffic sense of the driver's license and everything else. This is a temporary suspension of the right of ownership of a short-term motor vehicle to a court decision which stipulates that it must take it within 15 days and refers to the driver who has already been fined twice and commits one of the most serious offences mentioned above, thereby not jeopardising anyone's private ownership of the motor vehicle, but preventing further threats to the public safety and safety of the life of the participants in the transport. I also particularly commend the proposed provision that will record driving exams with video and audio records. Such a measure whose implementation is very simple and cheap will also raise the level of transparency of this important exam, while at the same time certainly raising the level of its quality, and certainly there will be a leveling of criteria in the surveyors. This is not only for the benefit of the students of the car school, but also for the benefit of the interrogators and car schools. The purpose of this provision shall be reflected in the quality monitoring of the performance of the driving test, the supervision of the authorised investigator, and in the final analysis and evaluation of the driving test process. According to current practice, it is impossible to verify the candidates who failed to satisfy the results of the exams, and the introduction of audio visual recording will allow the identification of relevant facts during the driving test. Recording would increase the transparency of laying and quality as well as the ability to monitor. It is also important to stress that it is not intended for that recording to collect personal data and that it cannot be used for other purposes. The proposed provisions of the MUP will also allow the rapid electronic verification of the driver’s driver’s license status through their websites as well as the number of negative points and current penalties and safeguards. This proposal will enable each carrier to rent and the car company and others, to check the driver to which the vehicle is given for use and thus to ensure that all unwanted consequences are ensured and the other parties shall disable the driver in the illegal management of the motor vehicle. These measures are not the end of achieving the objectives of safer road traffic and a significant reduction in the number of victims on traffic accidents, but only the beginning. These measures should further encourage all competent authorities to carry out even more preventive actions that will try to raise awareness of drivers in a milder way. As I have stated, it is not the goal of filling the budget but of preserving life as the greatest social value. All these measures would reduce the number of accidents on Croatian roads and thus reduce the number of fatal accidents. We are obliged to take all steps and do as much as possible in changing the bad habits of individual drivers, raising transport culture and protecting the lives of transport participants and the proposed amendments to this law represent a quality and decisive step forward in this direction, and in this sense I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147008	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Skoric. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147009	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I also get the impression today that this is the first reading. By listening to the promoter who says he's going to fix or adopt any new provisions, it's as if we're forgetting that today is the final draft of the law because if it were really intended to accept certain remarks then it would have already been made. This is how I agree with my colleague from GLAS who actually said that it might really be better if we had a complete solution that would prevent this situation from in some way having ping-pong with the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Liaison, which is that this law that should still be lex specialis, we are, in part, entering the maritime, transport and connections in particular about marking on the roads themselves, while in one part you have restrictions that are prescribed by this law, that means which speeds are maximum, of course depending on some other and local community, in which way they will actually regulate and set the signs themselves. That's not good. You should have a unique practice because you can't happen here, you probably all go through it on three lanes towards the airport in Zagreb, you have a limit of 60 km/h, you have even an extra tape, then you come into two lanes on the Homeland Bridge, there is 80km/h, and of course most of them know that there is a serious series of cameras even though there are no signs, but that voice is fast reported and it's a place where significant and numerous penalties are collected to drivers. In fact, the objective of surveillance for cameras such as radar and so on, should have a preventive character, therefore it would be very good to accept the particular observation that has been made between them and part of the members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which is that it does not transfer responsibility to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, but that these changes are also regulated by the precisely the question of visible demarcation of road sections on which radars and cameras are located and that preventative purpose is achieved, above all about the meaning of traffic signs prescribed by the Transport Signs Regulation, signalling, equipment on roads which, of course, is not the authority of the MUP. Also, a sign of a sentence that the legislator is prepared to resent people in terms of the amount of fines and the like, I think it is not a matter of proposing but in this House of legislators who will support or not support the issue of penalties that should contribute to reducing the number of deaths injured on roads in the Republic of Croatia. I stress that this is a law that speaks of roads, does not talk about other things in traffic, so I agree with colleagues who have mentioned other traffic participants, say these transformers, means our dear cyclists who are environmentally aware but use all the conditions and that means that both in the sidewalk and in the red light, they suddenly turn from cyclists to pedestrians and then become cyclists again, etc., a cyclists who are moving at speeds that are greater than what they are allowed to do in the settlement so that you risk more in the center of Zagreb if you move along the sidewalk than on the road itself, but it's obviously not a topic and there's not going to be any of these things that we realize that all the participants in traffic should be united through this law. As far as relapsers, hangers, etc. are concerned. Although measures have been taken so far, I can only ask the question, how many times has this weapon that was mentioned before been taken, and that means those who have committed crimes, who have been driven in an obscenity or in the way they acted, caused the death of others, how many times has our judiciary or court made a decision on such confiscation. I'm going to give one recent example of how we can write here and suggest whatever measures we want, but all of this will, of course, be settled in the practice of our judiciary in a way that they will certainly choose how someone will go. So you have a case from the 11th month in Split in the park, in front of a nursing home where there is no car ride 8 bodily, severe bodily injuries for 1 person, 4 serious bodily injuries for another person within 4 months completed the trial, the person neither took the vehicle nor paid any fine, no withdrawal of the driver's license, received 3 months probation for the case. So all of our stories about how we're going to end this kind of punishment for those who are breaking the rules, here I repeat, and in places where it's not allowed, nothing significant is going to happen. I think it's important to point out the National Road Traffic Safety Programme that has its results. We're one of the countries that we're taking part in that we don't have the black dots, we're trying to remove them. And that's something that's good because otherwise the practice was that black dots existed to know where you could die. Instead of being the right of the state, we are removing the positions in which traffic accidents occur frequently. And in this sense, in order to achieve these intentions that have been made, and that is not the aim of filling the budget, then let the law also define that it is precisely part of the funds charged by traffic penalties that are specifically directed at the education of the resolution of dangerous places in the Republic of Croatia, preventive programmes, and then we will likely come to the conclusion that there is also prevention in the Republic of Croatia. I would just point out that, here's just to get the impression of what it's about, let's say the helicopters that were purchased in 2014 are just bought from the national road safety program and serve to save those who were injured in an accident in the golden hour. So they're also equipped and that's the goal. On the other hand, many units of local self-government seek to suggest and participate in such competitions. Therefore, I would suggest to the rightful promoter that he go to this variant, which is to remove the suspicion that this is actually a charge of budget through drastic penalties which, of course, are not directed towards the recidivists, but will be the most common citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have committed an offence and will pay it neatly and will agree with that and those who are circumstantial thanks to the case-law of the court will remain circumstantial and then will happen after who knows which of their offences they kill will then wake up the public about the need to punish such a person drastically. What I'm also trying to say is that cameras here are a very important segment and all of them praise it in questions of interrogator exams and cameras on police, or on the uniforms of police officers no longer exist. This should also be regulated by law when we are already filming people during the driving exam to see how they work or how the instructor did that part of the story. Let what can best be done and help police officers, and that is to remove doubts about whether they have possibly used such drastic penalties for possible agreements, negotiations. And a variant in which what everyone declares to be true is that there is no corruption. I'll state one case and that's that you already have a variant on the highway that police officers in the car are standing on the side, recording the camera and then at the next destination, where you can be stopped by a police officer who shows you on your cell phone the speed you were driving. It's absolutely contrary to all the rules of conduct. But it's a common practice, people are lucky to be able to pay a fine there, but that kind of thing wouldn't happen if the police were recorded. The pilot project has been designed, proved very efficient, in all countries to protect the actions of police officers, with us, of course, being abolished, I can guess why. As far as the National Road Safety Programme itself is concerned, I insist on it and keep on mentioning it here for the reasons that both colleagues and colleagues have warned, it is not just a matter of prevention, it is a matter of investment in security. And investing in security means reducing tolls for trucks, not going to county roads, fewer pedestrians will die if something like that is done, so we can help security. The second part is that the very quality of the car and the number of unregistered finally begins to fall and that the quality that our citizens can afford is additional security. I'm finally going to point out a few more remarks that were on the issue of warning. And the warning has its own preventive objective. So you're probably not going to do anything like that again if a police officer warns you, an excuse that can't be done because it applies only to violations of up to 1000 kuna. That's exactly what the argument is that something like that should've been done. If it is a minor offense, it is good to warn a police officer that it is not a serious offense that is later on equating with those who are often involved in the most serious offenses, which also have fatal consequences or serious physical injuries. So my opinion is still at the end of what I have to say, and that is that this law has not solved the very important question, and that is the question of the use of cameras that exist in the Republic of Croatia, they are not 30 or 50 as much as they are written or they are empty housings. Somewhere around 12,000 and 700 is cameras that exist on Croatian highways, roads and so forth, but they can't be used in this case, so they're not, they're not, they're not cameras that can be used to determine violations, and I think that's exactly the way and that should have been solved by this law, and then people would know that in every tunnel, specifically on the highway, you know how many there are, there's at least 6 or 7 cameras, so they wouldn't be doing this situation that we have, and all those who do the fighting have a little hidden in the tunnel, and they're threatening traffic, they'd be fined and punished because they're all recorded cameras, but, of course, it's not possible to do so by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147010	I thank my colleague Ostojić. Next debate on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please welcome colleague Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147011	Thank you, Vice President HS, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, I will say something that is not different from the debate in the first reading, but I need to explain this, so that the Croatian public will not get the impression that we who criticise this law, which we are against such strict and repressive measures, that we do not worry about human lives. It is for all of us, I believe that there are no citizens in the Republic of Croatia who would not be the goal of saving human lives, only the question is whether repression is really the best way. The truth here, we must stress this, is talking about repression against relapsists, so the perpetrators of the most serious traffic offences and I don't think there are any delays, this is how it should be done, but are those penalties really appropriate for the standard of Croatian citizens and are they actually going to be charged? Because one of the basic things about saying the penalties for traffic violations and their charging is right, I think that fellow Ostojić was a minister when there was a change and a colleague who was Justice Minister Orsat Miljanic, I think they worked together on the changes to actually ensure a better cost-effectiveness of traffic penalties because we had a situation that some people had, I heard that data, I can't check it, but some people had up to half a million traffic tickets that they never paid, it's simply unacceptable, and then the question is, if you say such a high sentence, take that criminal, if I can call him that, and the car and he doesn't pay or doesn't want to pay, which we actually did? What's the message of the whole story? The fines are, of course, too high and what neither the secretary of state, here the minister showed up, failed to convince me, I read a little through the media, which repeats that there is a clear correlation between the penalties charged and the reduction of the number of victims in traffic, especially the gravely injured. Look, I'm talking about, this law refers to paying a fine that violates the law, here you're not talking about paying a penalty to start an accident traffic because an accident, the word itself says, accident is a series of unfortunate circumstances, never enough one circumstance. So let's just take the speed, just because we're driving at a speed that's consistent with the limit doesn't mean we're safe in traffic because at a frozen road every speed is too high, every movement is too fast. So if we look at a little statistics on police reports then we see that one of the main causes of traffic accidents is an unadjusted speed, not a speed above the limit, but an unadjusted speed. So, by this law, I hope to remove those who frequently break regulations as it is here and listed, but not by all these points, I have reserves according to a few points, but when we talk about deliberately going through red, I don't really know this one, it falls in, at the limits, of normal behavior, so if we're talking about someone driving through the settlement constantly 50km/h more than permitted speed, these are things that need to be sanctioned. But you have things that are difficult to measure, which, for example, are going to. These two seconds apart, be careful these are things that are already affecting the domain of good judgment, judgment and the end of a traffic cop, that's for example. the flow of the column that has been defined and all the laws so far, so in this law and left, in Germany about it a lot of debates, simply say if you pass three or more vehicles you are in serious violation and then there are still those circumstances, but it is not defined until the end of this law. So, we criticise this law are not far from that we are against that traffic safety should be at a lower level, it should be raised to a higher level, but someone has warned it and in the first reading and practice it shows in some countries it is not really and the level of punishment, it is important that it is paid, if the penalty is paid then it acts on drivers, if it is not paid then there is no point. And now we come to the camera question. The cameras are used to charge better, to see who was driving the car, they're set up in sequence, we see now in many places on our roads, what I'd like the secretary of state to explain how you handled yourself, it says here that the experts were determining those locations, you know what the local self-government units are asking, I don't know if there are exceptions, you know what they're asking? Will he pay 7.000,00 kn for the connection to the power grid and 2,500,00 kn for the performer to install the camera there. Other things I didn't hear they asked them, certain locations were, we were, I'm also the head of the municipality and the captain before me, we, however 20 years old, let's fight a little bit, to put a traffic light at school, a traffic light, we don't have statistics regularly from the MUP, it's not dangerous, we didn't get a positive solution, later we did it with Croatian roads, thanks to them, solve it. Here yesterday he arrived in the municipality of a memo from the MUP where it is requested that children who go to school to secure a bus stop, the MUP gives an answer that there is no foothold, so there is no danger for, there is no reason to place a bus stop in such a settlement, it is traffic safety, it is not just this repression, traffic safety depends on many factors. After all, if we're going to watch, and from these discussions it's visible to me it's little and sorry, I hear and colleagues say, what are Croatians like, they don't know how to drive cars, how they're oblivious, how only when they come to Slovenia and Austria to follow the rules. In Croatia there are a huge, maximum number of conscious drivers, drivers driving under difficult conditions because it is not a factor, one of the factors is the state of the road, the state of the roads in which it is located. I know that this debate lasted, that this pressure lasted longer for the MUP on this bill, because you take the Latin bypass, when it opened, of course it always opened up in politics, so this little one made a household, so everybody boasts, so it's said that it was part of the fast road, it couldn't possibly be part of the fast road, because it has two circular flows at the same level, so it's crosses. However, now these legal changes will be able to win the status of a fast road in the future because let's say that's good. But then in designing it was supposed to think differently already at the beginning if that was the case. In that sense, some of the solutions we have today on Croatian roads are not good. We had and were bringing some, Croatian roads actually brought a traffic restriction for freight vehicles, so our carriers objected strongly that this affected the economy. These are things we need to solve to make the vehicle safer on Croatian roads. And once again, Secretary of State, I invite you to come to the D2 state road, here you are from Virovitica to Orahovica, you can continue towards Osijek, so you'll see all the problems, from motorcyclists, tractors, these cameras, I don't mind some cameras set up, some units of local self-government paid and, of course, they don't stop, they'll pay for the electricity that these cameras spend. So it's been done that the MUP is represented as the only protector of security, the local self-government units are being neglected right in that part of the dialogue, there's no working together, there's no trust. I'm asking you again, what about the prevention councils? They'd do a lot more. And in the end, if we go back to our car schools, I believe that car schools educate our drivers, I hear that some people pull out their hair, 7-8 times fall on a driver's exam, and on the other hand we say we have the worst drivers in Europe. It's not good messages, then something deep is wrong. And I'll tell you one thing. Return the technical culture 2 hours a week to school so you will have far less of these accidents in traffic than you have now. More than with these repressive measures. And here's the end that, I'm going to refer one amendment to the secretary of state, if you accept that amendment I'll vote for the law because then you'll show that you're actually not for repression but really, really in the spirit of the law you're just about to punish the greatest, greatest offenders. In Article 8 of these amendments, the following paragraph 7 shall be deleted in Article 53, which shall punish the speed, overspeed in the settlement up to 10 km/h. Because this excess really doesn't have to be dangerous by respecting tolerance, it can sometimes be simple to be human, visibility is good, conditions on the road are ideal, in Slavonic villages now you don't have any more residents, everything is empty and really a man can go over speed, don't go ahead, at least make a concession, don't punish those people who don't go by saying low, low speed. That would be a good sign. I deeply hope and believe, as you do, that these changes will lead to the goal you want, however, I think that, I fear it will not be so, and I want to warn you once again, I heard from the secretary of state, and I heard here at my colleague's office saying that the repression is actually prevention, it's not, it's not, it's two different things. The repression and prevention don't have much in common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147012	I thank my colleague, Sagar. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147013	Thank you, dear Vice President. State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues of this law have already said almost everything in the first reading, but no changes are very important until the second reading and there is no, and I could say that this law, which is called the Road Traffic Safety Act, could actually be called the Security of the State Budget, given the drastic increase in penalties proposed in this bill. Penalties have increased in some other former bill proposals, but the number of deaths on Croatian roads has not been significantly reduced. Unfortunately, this government believes that the repression of financial, media, or others will keep the people in subjection. The pressure around the Croatian people's neck is getting stronger, but you know what's going on, you're wrong if you think it's a good method. The people simply leave you, they leave, they go to countries where governments take more care of citizens who pay taxes, who create new values, which produce, which maintain the pension system, which pay essentially those who come up with a grip and strengthen the grip around his neck, in this case the Ministry and the Croatian Police. Interestingly, MPs, some ruling majority MPs disagree with the many provisions of this Road Safety Act, but they will still vote for such a law on Friday. I ask you what is the purpose of this Croatian Parliament if we are just discussing here, if you disagree with what is being brought and then Friday comes and you vote for that law again. Why the Croatian Parliament? Then let the government lead and take all responsibility, not give the people i.e. The citizens make fun of themselves, make fun of Croatian MPs like the worst people in this country and receive the highest salary in this country and do nothing. That is what you who do not agree with the law contribute to, and on Friday you vote in favour of such a law. If the goal was really to reduce the number of deaths, then some other measures would be launched. Last year, there were 317 deaths in traffic, 60% of which were approximately killed on site, and 40% died in transport or in the first 30 days in the hospital. So if you truly wanted to reduce the death toll, then you'd be dealing with that gold watch, as fast as you could transport the victims to the hospital to survive anything greater. We've already talked several times about emergency helicopter transport, an emergency helicopter service that would essentially be worth it because that golden hour would reduce the cost of treatment and recovery of those who were killed in traffic, and normally those other people who needed urgent transportation to the hospital and whose time it means whether they survived or not. You didn't make an effort here because this state would have to separate itself from the budget and not think that this way will be saved in the budget, but in this way it tries to choke and the people squeeze to the fullest extent possible. How long do you think you'll be doing that? I don't think you're going to be too long because trust me that one day the people will blow you away that you didn't even hope for how fast. In Croatia, the penalty paid in Germany will be EUR 10 per 1,000, don't you think Germany is thinking of reducing the number of people killed in traffic. I think that they and how they think and that they care about it very much, but that they have dealt with this urgent helicopter transport and that very briefly the unhappy are arriving at the hospital and that it is a far greater percentage of survival than it is in Croatia. It's absurd that we've imposed a fine for the belt on 1,000 kuna with a non-binding driver that driver is not jeopardizing anyone in that traffic except himself and this undermining of the penalty we think we're going to make them bond. It's one of the proofs that it doesn't matter whether it's tied up or not, it's important how much money you put in the budget. A far greater prevention would be if we were all equal in front of Croatian courts, so we're all responsible for the same offence roughly the same, that we all answer the same for serious violations, but that's not the case. You show it every day with examples, so here's Minister Grill who hasn't extended her driver's license for three years, we don't know if she even paid the fine, I doubt it. We know of many members of the golden bride who have to say such powerful parents, good relationships that unfortunately took lives in traffic, were not adequately punished, and even sometimes even cash, did not respond, they received only some parole. Well, until we get to that, gentlemen of the Croatian Police to make sure that everyone is equal before the law, that our courts look equally at the rich and the poor, until then there will be no respect for the laws of traffic, i.e. Some will respect them, some will not respect them. We are not talking about Croatian highways being too expensive, that many people here at the time of the tourist season avoid the highway because approximately toll is almost fuel, if you take the old road. If Croatian roads were accessible, many people would be driving and there would probably be fewer traffic accidents, especially those with the most difficult outcome. And unfortunately, this law does not respect that we human beings are prone to error, to sin, every one of us is wrong, and so are you who wrote this law you are wrong. And in law writing, but also in traffic. I bet you guys who came up with this bill and you're defending him that you're also wrong about traffic, but I don't believe you're paying a fine like the rest of us. Because I know very well that many people manage, even today when these cameras are directly transmitted, but most people can't afford such luxury to have someone solve his sentence, and they don't have to pay the fine, but they have to take it out of their pocket that's pretty empty anyway. Carjacking, today vehicles are no longer a luxury, they are a need, many have sick parents, children, or are themselves sick and taking away vehicles for them means far more than that penalty they have to pay. I agree that those who repeat the offences, who commit the most serious violations, and especially alcohol that should be sanctioned, but there are other ways of taking away the vehicle, and also the time when that vehicle will be in some kind of wire someone will have to pay the cost, its value will fall, and they will not be able to use it, so I wonder how much it is and constitutionally to behave like that. Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling majority who do not agree with these provisions of the law, which you consider, and you have expressed your views here, that these penalties are too high, here I appeal to you not to vote on Friday for this bill and it will not be passed like this. They're gonna go to work, and then there's a new law. But I know you're not supposed to do this, unfortunately, that you have to respect the party's discipline because you're blacked out if you don't do it, but this punishment won't reduce the number of dead, at least not significantly, unfortunately, and we'll see in a year if this government survives for a year, in a year we'll see that no matter what you've charged more penalties, the better you've filled your budget, the more you've wrapped up many families in black because you'll be blocked and you'll get the commission to charge them this kind of punishment, or because of an unpaid punishment, won't be able to register your vehicle, so they won't be able to drive their children to school, kindergarten, to take medical examinations or no God in the hospital for the disease. You've put a lot on your conscience, unfortunately in your first plan is to charge the state budget, and you simply don't see how the Croatian people live for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147014	Thank you, colleague Lenart. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147015	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, so here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, and we heard a lot in the debate and in the first reading, but we heard a lot of it in the opening presentation and in the presentations in front of the representatives' clubs. There are differing opinions, and I would personally refer to the fact that even during the first reading, but even between these two readings, a lot of controversy, a lot of stories really were about the level of punishment, the amounts of punishment, whether they were too large or not, and whether they would pull certain effects or certain improvements? And the answer to my question, Secretary of State Katic, you said that our sentences are somewhere in the middle, somewhere in the middle between the amount of penalties in Western European countries and the countries in the environment, and we are all here as agents, especially at this time of year, aware of what is happening on our roads, because of the nature of work we are almost daily on our roads, on the roads, on the fast roads and on the highways and in fact we see what is the condition, and I must say, certainly, especially now in these touristic crowds we are witnessing that, especially on the highway road, we are driving certainly, these are speeds and over 200 km/h, driving on the roadways, crossing from one lane to another, without giving blinkers and so on. When it comes to foreigners, we can actually ask ourselves one question, what happens to these people, what happens to these drivers when they leave their countries and actually go to the Republic of Croatia, those people who actually in their countries are strictly adhered to traffic regulations and rules that are pretty strict and we've heard that the penalties are bigger, but not only to talk about foreigners, we can look back on our domestic drivers, too, what happens to us when we cross the border? We don't have to go that far either, it's enough to cross this border into neighbouring BiH, into the Unsko-San cantun, why are our drivers driving through populated areas by the border and 20, 30, 40 km/h more than the permitted speed, crossing the full line, when they cross that state crossing suddenly become conscious drivers? Well it's not because they've experienced a certain,... Enlightenment or become conscious drivers rather than precisely because a large number of radar boxes and cameras are present there, which, of course, draws punishment for such offenders. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we here today can, of course, discuss whether these penalties are too great, whether they could be less, whether they could be more and always be supporters of both options and other solutions. I personally think and I will repeat this, and I also said in the debate in the first reading that human life has no price, and it is obvious that despite the great prevention, despite the great education and effort that both state institutions and the MUP and all others who are involved in this process in traffic, it is only when, as we say in the public's opinion, they are struck in the pocket by a wallet. And so I will repeat that if any of this punishment, whether it is charged or because of the threat or the possibility of punishment, it has come to pass that certain offences have not been committed, if one of these proceedings is saved, one of the only human lives then this law has fulfilled its purpose, of course I welcome it, but also I welcome the intention that in the near future, and we could see this in the announcements from the MUP that our roads, our highways with cameras and radars will be further equipped, and that, at least, I hope, will achieve the same effect, the same effect as drivers and participants in transport and in other European countries and in the environment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147016	Thank you. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147017	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lipovsjak, you have mentioned a good part of the debate precisely these fines and how much they increase, whether they will get a certain effect, we know that even from the National Road Safety Programme, we have not received the results and objectives that we have drawn up and that we have 316 killed and that we want to reduce this by a minimum of 100 less, and you have mentioned yourself that normal human life has no price and that we hope that these changes and supplements will contribute to road safety, but once again we are not all equal, not all of our citizens of the same income, do you think that this system is better, or that we introduce personal income punishment as courts have in determining certain penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147018	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Lipovsčak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147019	Here, as you yourself have said, I believe that this is a proposal that could in any way be considered, not only on the level of penalties relating to the personal receipts of the offender but also on what Mr. Secretary of State mentioned and depending on the course of such a violation, whether it is the first, second or third time, so that I agree with this one, but I also believe that these penalties should not be reduced to some sort of banal amount so that, however, through not only prevention but also this repressive part can affect traffic safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147020	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147021	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, in your debate, you said that you yourself doubted whether this increase in fines will bring the results we want as few people to die in traffic and that I agree with you and I think that in relation to the income and income our citizens have in the Republic of Croatia and most of them work for a salary of between 3000 and about 5,000 kuna and 6000 kuna, and that these penalties are certainly too high and that they should have considered imposing penalties towards income levels. It is sad to hear that the state is not prepared to do so because there are no quality records that could be done but the fact that a large number of people will not be able to pay those penalties and that surely because of that some will be blocked and that this should not be the purpose of this law, of filling only the state budget, it is much more important that... Prevention and I said that why, in the season, the biggest traffic on highways is being performed, couldn't the works have taken place sooner or after the tourist season because it also endangers the safety of road traffic and unfortunately Croatian highways and Croatian roads are now most intensively performing works on the planning of roads, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147022	My colleague Vlaović, thank you. Please be careful on time, reply to Liposchak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147023	I did not say, first of all, that I doubted the implementation of this law, but I hope, and I really hope that this legislative proposal will take one step forward and that we will get some things in a positive way. As for these penalties, these great penalties that we talk about often and actually mention the dangers of blockades and so on, I agree partly with you, but let's not be distracted from the mind that exactly the greatest amounts of these penalties are intended for those reluctants, for those who represent I would say a constant danger to traffic and for those who are primarily focused on all traffic participants, and I don't think that there should be too much understanding for those who do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147024	Thank you. Next debate, esteemed colleague Ante Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147025	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues from the Ministry. Here's as we've heard from the Secretary of State himself but here's a series of debates of colleagues about these changes and additions to the Road Safety Act, in the second reading there are no major differences except for a few amendments that are accompanied by individual colleagues and from individual clubs but the whole debate is actually the whole intensity of how I view these changes and the additions are related to the national road safety programme. So just something that we wrote, something that we've brought, some of the goals that we've outlined aren't fulfilled here in 2019, were planned until 2020 that we'll change certain statistics, we know how many lives the road carries, we know how many problems and how many injuries and material damages come out of all of that. A number of colleagues have just mentioned that we have 316 people killed on our roads and that in fact the goal of the national programme was to reduce that number from 316 to 213 maximum. That's almost 100 people killed less, and I hope these changes and I hope that these changes and supplements will definitely contribute to that. It is neither good nor that the fourth country in the EU is by the number of deaths in transport, the average of EU countries, with 77 people killed per million, while the European average is 49 people and there we can also understand the normal intensity of the ministry that it must move towards certain radical changes and amendments to the law so as not to turn that statistics to the benefit of all our citizens normally. Here are the defeated data related to the safety belt where it has shown that about 61% of drivers and passengers are bound in Croatia, in the rear seats only 13% and we know that when they fall out of the vehicle, more than 30 people die annually due to non-binding. If we had met all the requirements of the national programme that we have set out ourselves, the ministry believes that this figure would be 10% less than it's not a meaningless number. It is alarming and related to children in traffic, especially when we see that 60% of children in car accidents suffer precisely in the capacity of passengers in vehicles, precisely in vehicles driving their parents or loved ones, and that most of the unfortunately of the deaths of children just as passengers were due to improper binding or because children were not at all bound or not used child seat in the car itself so that it is one of the defeating facts and defeating figures to which these changes and additions definitely warn us. In this we will say a new era i.e. in this last decade when the use of the cell phone is and when there are growing functions of our smartphones are in use, not only mentioning telephones, social networks, all possible forms of correspondence but also using cell phones for the purposes of the Internet but also GPS in vehicles, we also see the analysis and statistics that the ministry also carried out that 91% of drivers phoned during driving, 33% even the cyclists phoned and used mobile devices during their participation in the vehicles, but it worries that a large number of traffic accidents just caused by crossing or inexplicable tape or unexplained deconcentrated vehicle crossings are not only in the opposite lane but also uncontrollable movement of the vehicles themselves, which probably means the ministry in its analysis assumed that this is precisely the reason of using mobile devices themselves so that this problem past the connection and other violations, I think is one of the biggest problem. The problem that will be most difficult to face in these changes and additions, but tomorrow and through the actions of our police officers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3581 infringements were recorded where a driver’s license was withdrawn, which showed normally that the existing system of withdrawal of the driver’s licence and did not show any special and strong purpose, so that it is understandable to tighten sanctions and tightening and fines, but also the conditions for the withdrawal of the driver’s licence in certain infringements. As regards the suspension of the driver’s license and the obligation to re-seat the driver’s test, I personally believe that it is one measure that will definitely intimidate drivers and related to the collection of negative misdemeanor points, will raise a certain awareness and will warn drivers that they do not persistently repeat certain forms of violation and this controversial, alleged disputed decision regarding the measures of temporary withdrawal of the vehicle, which has been considered by many colleagues as to whether it is contrary to the law, other laws, I think it is correct because it will be applied solely to drivers who have repeatedly repeated the most difficult forms of traffic violations. We also know that technology is moving forward, that our police are increasingly equipped with new technological systems and achievements, so that there is also a violation of non-compliance with the safety gap between vehicles on the road i.e. Not only is it introduced but it will now be measured in a different, more quality and faster and more efficient way, but it is important that the whole of the Republic of Croatia has a uniform process of passing the driving test itself and obtaining a driver's license, so it is good that the ministry will control both audio and visual interrogators, just to see whether there is some difference in the number of violations and the number of repeated misdemeanors in certain counties or in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia in order to see if there is any difference in the performance of the driving test itself. I'm not going to point out for which all violations are increasing fines, that's for most of the violations that are, under quotes, the most popular among drivers in the law, but we know that here and the biggest debates were precisely that the fines for certain violations are submerged, even three times bigger. We will see what the effect of the law itself will be, and very quickly, probably over a year, so I appeal to the ministry that as soon as this law comes into force, and quality statistics and quality analysis are already big changes and complements, and I think it is time to pass the final bill so that this doesn't have to be a sacred letter on paper in the sense that this will remain forever, but in a year's time we see how many of these changes and additions have been achieved and whether we have met all the goals and the whole purpose of the National Road Safety Programme, and in the final bill proposal tomorrow we can also reduce these penalties, but we can think about introducing what we have several times repeated, especially here and myself and in the first reading itself, and this is modeled and on Scandinavian countries, that tomorrow we may also introduce fines and by personal income, what we are doing better in our new and we would have a much better sense of common interest, which we would have a much better sense of common interest, which would have a much greater value, which we know, which would be much better than the most of good, which we know, which we know, which we have a lot, which we know the most of good, which we know, which we have a lot of good, which we know, which we know, which we know the most, which we know, which we have a lot, which we have a lot, which we have a lot of good, which we know, which we know, which we know, and we know, and we know, and we know, and we know, and we have a lot, and we have a lot, and we have a lot, and we have a lot. All in all, I think we have a year of analysis, the effect of these changes and additions, and I believe that through that period the final bill will come when we see what the effect of this, which changes, so maybe tomorrow and thank God and reduce certain fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147026	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. We have replicas, a respected colleague of the Professor's. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you mentioned that last year there were 316 dead on the roads and a clear point that we should take all measures to reduce that figure. However, what we need to keep in mind is that 40 years ago. There were 1600 and something dead on the roads, so over 5, 5 and a half times almost, and that's in the last 20 years. Road mortality decreases by 3 on average by 3% per year. What's the problem and what we're talking about here is that the ministry wants this percentage to increase to 5% by taking just a subjective factor on the roads, and not those other objective circumstances, and it's actually a key misunderstanding on how to get to one desired state that we have as few accidents, unhappy and dead on the roads as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147028	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147029	Thank you, Vice President. Prof. Tudjman absolutely agrees with you and it is good that you have just mentioned statistics from the past and today, but we need to know normally that they are even better standards, that this is changes and supplements precisely for this subjective part that is related to drivers, and normal road safety is not dependent on drivers, depending on the quality of the road and on the quality of normal and vehicle, but it is also good that the MUP and lifts the ladder, that it wants a better standard, that it wants better statistics, that it wants as much as possible safety. So I believe that these changes and additions will definitely contribute to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147030	Thank you. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, I have one question, so in particular that I met, I may have been driving three or four times in this parliamentary term with my official driver, and I was first shocked when they said what their salary was, and on the other hand, in the conversation with them I learned that very often they must exceed their speed because a certain parliamentary representative must arrive at a certain time, at a certain point. And also the government official, it's not their will, it's their will, and then if they exceed the speed they pay the penalty. It would make sense to me that their punishment pays or the parliament or government because it is not their free will, so they do not drive quickly because they want to arrive but because they simply have to obey that command.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147032	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147033	Thank you, Vice President. I don't think I agree with you that the driver should always pay the fine, but this problem, if there is, and I believe that there is, now the difference is normally vehicles official or vehicles of the MUP do have a rotation or have no rotation, do they have any reason to overstep speed or is it just out of some obsess because someone gets there a little faster, but I think it's a problem that needs to be solved internally. In the sense that if an employee of the Croatian Parliament or if an employee of the MUP is that person, we should protect that person so that he can refuse immediately at the beginning such a request by an individual official to exceed speed and deliberately violate the law. So I don't agree that an institution or that official should pay, but a driver, but we need to protect the driver from being forced into violations and violations of the law in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147034	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147035	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, here we have today the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. Every day, we all meet with news of the dead and the victims on Croatian roads. Of course, those killed and killed on the roads are not only the problem of the Republic of Croatia, but they are also the problem of the world. Thus, 25,100 people died in the area of all 28 current EU member states last year, which is the size of one city. So a million, and the average in the EU per million people is 49 dead, the average in the Republic of Croatia per million is unfortunately 77. So 77 people killed per million people. As it turns out that the number of most dangerous traffic offences has increased, the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act has been approached, and they have coincided with the severity of the consequences of traffic accidents. Such a measure aims to increase the awareness of transport participants, from the necessity of compliance with traffic regulations. 4 The main factors that are the biggest causes of car accidents are alcohol, speed, belt detachment and mobile use when driving. Every 4 tragedies in traffic are caused by the influence of alcohol from last year's 316 killed on our roads here we've already heard as many as 158 killed in traffic accidents was caused by a speed that wasn't adapted to road conditions. 61% of Croatian drivers or passengers are only tied in traffic, and in the rear seats this figure is defeating it is below 14%, and we saw only in the last year are 30 people killed due to non-binding belts, and the goal is essentially only with this measure we can achieve as many as 10% less deaths in traffic. Traffic experts have noticed that more car accidents have occurred in the past few years, often fatal, whose cause is almost inexplicable, and it is said by a sudden turn in the opposite lane or landing off the road, such accidents are due to the use of smart phones and in some studies, in the studies, almost 91% of drivers have been telephoned on the road, and of course phone calls are not as dangerous as writing messages or viewing emails, or we call it mobile surfing. And if we look at the violations and sanctions in this law, or the increase in those sanctions, we see that they are actually directed towards those who often, who are in fact significantly breaking traffic regulations by, they are so-called. The recidivists are precisely groups that actually make the most serious violations and repeat them. In particular, for overdoing the speed of moving in a populated place by more than 50 km/h, passing through red light, refusing alcohol and drug testing, driving under the influence of drugs and alcohol above 1.5% of the promo, driving before the driving test, driving at a time when the driver was deprived of the driver's driver's license and we see that instead of the milder fines that amounted to a range of 5 to a maximum of 15,000 kuna per this new offenders would pay 10 to 20,000 kuna. We're all sensitive when fines are increasing, but on the other hand, when we hear that particularly retreaders, so those people who often repeat and commit violations all sorts of different things like we tell mom and dad's sons when God doesn't run over someone on the street, then there's an alarm, we all wonder what the service is doing, what the state is doing, what the police are doing. Why didn't we stop it and then it all becomes unimaginable to us? How to prevent it and how to reduce the number of deaths might be one way, we'll see maybe in a year when we have some effect on this law. If we look from the perspective of those who, who have lost perhaps their loved ones because of someone's blasphemous driving, then no sanctions, no punishment certainly such, such families will be large enough and I understand them. And so that's that one perspective. The second is, of course, the opposite, the perspective of a person who is in a position to pay a fine if she broke the law. Of course, that's where the problems arise, because she'll object because every height of her sentence is great. Of course none of us are for any repressive measures, I personally don't, they don't like anyone. I'm always for that second element that's education and prevention, to increase the culture of driving and drivers in traffic. Of course, we need to work from those earliest days from kindergartens, primary and secondary schools and to retirement homes because we see that there are also large, large participants, a large number of participants and the older age of traffic. Of course, what the predecessors here have brought out in their debates and I wonder what we will do with cyclists and pedestrians, they are, of course, great traffic participants and every day all of us who are drivers meet with them. And how to distinguish those who break the law because of a random mistake means and those who do it on purpose. It's going to be maybe a little harder to judge cops who, of course, work at their jobs. And all of us have recently met with those who, even on our roads, rule a law stronger, I feel that on our roads if you have a better and more expensive car, these people think that they have and that they are worth some other rules, so here I welcome this provision that we have in the law about driving on the highway because all of us here, I personally come to Zagreb at least once or twice a week, or I come back home so that we are all aware of what kind of cases there are on our roads. And here we see this new proposal in amendments to the Road Safety Act, its effects will be seen within a year, but if this law prevents the death of at least one person on our roads we've done a lot and here we all expect from it means maybe a reduction in the number of victims in car accidents. It is up to you, of course, to give it to the police on the ground as much as possible, but all of course, traffic participants to prevent the number of people killed in traffic accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147036	I'd like to thank my colleagues Maximchuk. We have a few replicas. Dear fellow Professor Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maximchuk, in any case, the number of dead is too large. However, you mentioned these statistics that in Europe the average is 49 per million people and I think if I heard 97 well in Croatia. It's... 77? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, then I'm sorry, I heard wrong because then it's one entirely different ratio than I heard. But in any case, these figures should be taken into account, and it should, when it comes to statistics, still refer to the years to which it relates. Is that last year or some other part? And on the other hand with these statistics when we already have, there's one thing about tourist countries where you have big traffic of foreign vehicles and foreign drivers, and the other is when we have, when there's not. And here, in our analysis, we have never said how many dead or involved are in the traffic caused by the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147038	Thank you. Answer, colleague Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147039	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, fellow Tudjman number, this statistics means since 2018 77 is our number, which is significantly more than in the EU where that number is 49, of course we have that other factor, is not only human when it comes to traffic accidents, that is, of course, our roads, these are technically invalid vehicles that are involved in traffic, all of which, of course, are traffic cultures that are not affected by such a large number of deaths. It is up to us, as I said, and on this bill, to reduce the number of people killed on Croatian roads and make these statistics significantly smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147040	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Liposcak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147041	My colleagues Maximchuk mostly and most actually talk about using smartphones and actually the consequences of using these phones in driving and actually affecting the very safety of traffic. I would also mention the use of travel computers that are in almost every car today, in fact, which becomes part of what we can say and the basic equipment of all newer cars via these travel computers and we use them for road planning, GPS, navigation and many other functions such as listening to music and the like and precisely using these travel computers sometimes distracts us much more than using the phone itself or that smart phone. Unfortunately, this law cannot or cannot recognize such a situation and I will repeat the use of these travel computers is sometimes much more dangerous than the use of the phone itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147042	Thank you, answer. My colleague Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147043	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, here's a colleague of Lipoščak we've seen that, according to some studies, even 91% of traffic users are using smartphones, computers and everything else. Of course that's not good, we see that in those first four countries, we're by the number of people killed and killed. We should do and do everything, the fact that here in this law we don't recognize these smart computers and pills used by some traffickers. I'm sure that, of course, we're going to make the next new one, maybe the law, and we're going to see if we can put that provision in place, but here we are, trying to bring as many people as possible through education and prevention. So you don't even use cell phones, smartphones, pills and all the modern technology we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147044	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147045	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maximchuk, you've made a very nice point today to one of the great truths, that alcohol is a major problem in traffic and the cause of many deaths in traffic, traffic accidents. Recitalism and relapse is also a problem and this law is trying to solve it. But how is he trying to solve it? By increasing the sentence. Did the increase in repression prove to be the most correct way to reduce alcoholism in transport? I don't think so. Now, where are the preventive measures? It would be much better if we had them. Let's imagine the situation, that the Transport Safety Act or some other law that's in charge of it, requires that every car has to have a sensor to detect alcohol money. And if he feels at the driver's liquor, it just blocks the engine and you can't turn it on. So you set it to 0.5, as far as law is allowed. Would such a preventive measure have had more effect on saving lives and less alcoholized people behind the wheel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147046	Thank you. Thank you. Answer me, colleague Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147047	Thank you. Well esteemed counterpart Klisovic, yes, every 4th traffic accident was caused by signs from people who were under the influence of alcohol. Of course I agree with you that maybe these aren't the most effective measures, if they weren't the best measures, I agree equally with you that prevention and education may be equally good or better, but here's the thing that you said about these smart cars, and maybe for a year some of the car manufacturers install a system like this that would certainly be commendable, but I'm afraid some of them wouldn't be able to avoid some kind of catchy game, as it usually does, we always do, before some law is passed, watch how we avoid it, so here I'm saying, it's up to us all to work to reduce the number of people killed in car accidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147048	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147049	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maximchuk. And I'm going to refer to the question and the replica of my fellow Liposcians, which is precisely about the use of a cell phone, which you've mentioned is that we have a large number of accidents because of the unexplained reason for moving into opposite lanes, but now the question is, I think it's a big challenge for the MUP to regulate these things, because today's smart phones make us, as soon as we get in the car, to connect to GPS, to sync music, to use, to make as much interactions from the car and the driver himself. All of this distracts attention and all of this can be the use of a cell phone and the use of certain devices in the driving itself, and now the question is what is safe to use mobile devices and smartphones in the car, and what is insecure. I think it's a new challenge that's going to challenge, not just Infringement of a large number of accidents. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147050	Answer me, comrade Maximchuk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147051	Thank you, Vice President HS. Yes, an esteemed colleague, it will be necessary to essentially distinguish it, so that's what's safe and what's insecure about using such devices on the ride. It's best of course, we all use navigation sometimes, or GPS, it's best to use it at the start of the ride, but here, it's going to mean the Ministry of Obligations that, I don't know, by regulations or any other tools that can distinguish the use of a secure device and navigational or mobile devices in the car, of course, we don't use them at all, but here we hope that in a year when we have some kind of statistical information about how positive this law has been, we might have an answer to that question as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147052	Thank you. The next replica, if you're finished, colleague Misic, you can replicate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147053	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maximchuk. You were talking about the speed of the highways and the speed of the ride we see every day, the ones who travel is you, from Slavonia. Of course it should punish certain people, but we see our interceptors doing, I would say, quite well. Of course, I can't do it all, but if there were, there's, like, a lot of it. And that should work, and as for the fines and the price of the fines of those who rise from, say, 500 to 1000 kn and something like that, maybe it's too much, not maybe, but certainly. It should have been, we were learning a little bit of ourselves to go, and the penalties were even now high and were now high, but looking at European penalties and around, maybe we could get a little coordination down. Our citizens have, of course, lower incomes, but those who regularly commit crimes, they need to be treated drastically and young people die in cities, that's what young people should do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147054	Answer, colleague Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147055	Thank you. Dear fellow I agree with you that for our standards this may be too high a penalty, but here, and in my debate I said, if we're going to save only one life in traffic, we've done a lot, we'll probably see its effects soon, maybe within a year, and then we can talk about whether I don't know about any other measures, whether they're being reduced but here, let's try and see the natural effects and effects of this law soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147056	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague, Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't think it's disputed here in the assembly that we're all in the best interest to have as few accidents as possible, less unhappy, less dead on the roads. Where differences arise these are in these assessments of this bill, these are the causes of these accidents and how to prevent us from getting to a reduction in the number of deaths. I think we could say that the objective reasons of these accidents that have led to the reduction of accidents are that in the last almost 40 years, the quality of the road is much better, we haven't had highways before, the quality of the car from year to year every generation of new cars is getting better and safer and the third factor is that it's an emergency, what the medics call a golden watch, most people took care of within that last golden hour, and that's why the number of dead is much less. I've already said since 1600 and some dead 40 years ago, today such a number has fallen to 1/5, or to such an old number that we can't reconcile with. Speaking of these things, it is not said or indicated that vertical signalling did not follow these road quality changes, car quality, I don't know but I think it was about 8 or 10 years ago, journalists were driving by the rules, although the old road from Zagreb to Split took over 8 hours. After that, they also drove from Zagreb to Rijeka, and it lasted about 5 hours. In other words, under such a signalling, you can objectively punish everyone on the road because none of us drive that much. I'm not talking about going crazy around the inhabited area right now. I'm talking about the open road. Now we come to what we might call a subjective factor, which is said here, is alcohol, speed, belt, and cell phones. They are the cause of the accident, but the question is whether it can be dealt with primarily by repressive measures or by preventive measures. In my opinion, this law has taken the wrong philosophy to go through repressive measures rather than preventive action, so that generally all penalties are increased by 50% and at least some 200% and I don't think that's a good solution. However, I agree with those measures that go to re-depositees who simply objectively said probably one part of them didn't even deserve permission to be in that procedure or medically or in the course of the exams eliminated but I think that for those key things when it comes to the belt and the cell phone that you don't need and there's no excuse to raise them. For the same punishment with us today, for these fines are offered 1,500 kuna, in Germany or Austria, in Austria I think 100 euros, in Germany 130 euros, means twice as much as we do. It just doesn't make sense. That's why I've handed over three amendments, two to this one, so that these penalties for non-binding belts and cell phones remain exactly the same to prevent the third amendment that I've given, which tomorrow, which we're all going to declare tomorrow, is to make this sign that the radar has been set up and that the cameras are being set up. It's just that today you have in most European countries, when you use this GPS and maps, they're already warning you on the roads you're driving through Austria, through Germany, where the radar is set, where the speed is limited, and then it just makes sense. You're not going to make people sick because they're going to be warned and that's what we should be doing. The same applies when it comes to these interceptors, they should exist in order to deal with those who have committed other crimes and here on highways and other roads should be marked vehicles because by the very existence of roads, what people see is keeping certain speeds. On the side I'm not saying it right now because of these other tags take it to Germany, there's no limit on highways, speed limits, and when these limits are set, then it's... Respectful but they are of the fact that there are no restrictions on making a big tourist investment because these people come with fast cars so they can enjoy those speeds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, the speed itself is not a cause, I'm talking about this speed on the highways and the time when it's allowed because if the conditions aren't such, if traffic is too dense, you put restrictions immediately and you can't admire the roads. Therefore, I think that these amendments, which we are talking about, should be accepted in order to highlight the preventive action rather than the repressive methods which then cause any interpretations that simply do not have to stand, should not be attributed to the promoter, and that is precisely why it would be good for the government to accept some of these amendments, which I and some others advocate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147058	Thank you. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147059	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, I'm just a replica to support you in practically everything you've said, absolutely, 100% agree with everything you've said and here I actually think that the key difference that needs to be done is to regulate what's going on on the highways and what's going on on on the unquality, bad, so these regional local roads, and there's that key. We can't brag about having a highway, it's not just for a more comfortable journey, it's for a faster journey from point A to point B. And that's why it can't limit. Here I am a lot, really many miles through on these highways, and basically you out of season have certain restrictions on these highways all the time, it's no longer highways, I don't know why we pay or why citizens pay 200 kuna if they're going to drive 60, 70 an hour. I'm saying other than driving is easier and more comfortable, simple highways have to give people the opportunity to get to a point faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147060	Thank you, reply to the line, dear fellow Tudjman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147061	Thank you. Thank you for this support, but clearly, it has already been said that it is absolutely pointless to punish this for over 10km more than it is prescribed on highways, and besides this defined law obliges road officers to punish people when that punishment is completely pointless. You drive alone on the highway, it's prescribed for 130, you drive 150, no one, if you have to be punished. I mean, meaning and limitations and punishment is completely different. With a law like this, we just make people do jobs that they don't believe in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147062	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Felak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147063	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Tudjman, so here is the teaching of this replica of Mr. Greek, I support what is said, I think that the penalties that will be prescribed by this law are generally too high except for the rectivists and those who repeat the works but for ordinary people and for these ordinary penalties, which is a belt, it's a seat in the car, and I think we're going to go to one extreme and I'm not sure we're going to get some special effect by doing it, and we're going to poverty people with regard to the receptions they have. Also, this on the highways, I think you should consider that outside of the season when there is no traffic one speed limit is introduced and I agree, when traffic is on the highways, it's mostly these two, three tourist months, that other rules apply. Do you think that would bring a certain effect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147064	Thank you, answer, Comrade Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147065	Thank you. First of all, as far as these phones and belts are concerned, it could have been dealt with in a different way, it could have been said for one who hadn't attached to the belt, damaged himself, therefore, would have borne the costs of health insurance in the event of an accident or completely, or otherwise. The mobile phone could be solved by prescribing that cars are expected and these medium-quality cars have these devices, handsfree, I don't even know how Croatian it is said, therefore, it was possible to go and not just into this. On the other hand, I don't see any reason why we wouldn't have the freedom to drive on the highways at times and circumstances when they allow it, a clear thing, when you have big, dense traffic, when it's season, then it's not possible but that's why there's a signalling to limit that speed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147066	Thank you for your response. The next replica, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147067	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, I also agree with your arguments presented in the debate and thank you for once again pointing to this causal link between quality and technical conditions on roads or roads and cars that are trafficked by them, modern cars and regulations that we have, which are from long ago, long ago. This discrepancy between regulations and driving conditions in today's day is the main thing that encourages anxiety among Croatian citizens who drive cars and I think we should do absolutely something there because citizens have the impression that when something needs to be done, let's first hit the citizens' pocket with repression and penalties and we won't invest in infrastructure, in roads, to rebuild them, not to be filled with holes because if you go in a hole with 100 per hour or 40, of course it's not the same thing, you can lose your head here with 100, but if there are no holes then things are completely different. Therefore, investment in infrastructure is crucial to saving lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147068	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. Answer, Comrade Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147069	Thank you. My colleague Klisovic, when I was talking about radar, I think they should be marked, but they should also be used in those places for knowledge that are critical situations but it is for internal use and not for punishment if it is not marked. As for the quality of the vehicle, one is the quality and ability of the vehicle to stop at 100km or 50km per hour of today's vehicle and the one from 20 or 40 years ago. However, with us in the law or this signalling has not changed any of that. On the other hand, you have another problem that has never been discussed. This when they put on, set up ambushes or place a sign that you need to reduce the speed of time it has to be allowed for you to come to that concern that you don't have to stop suddenly and the police are standing behind you at 50 or 100m and punishing you for not slowing down from that sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147070	I thank my colleague Tudjman for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147071	Thank you, Vice President. Pro. Tudjman, in your presentation you said about the penalties that you can agree with, they're too great, for our citizens anyway. And as for the limitations, the speeds on the highways, we have to start changing ourselves. We look at Germany which is rare and they didn't all allow on all roads and have penalties with them, we look at Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia and other countries, I think there must be a restriction. We need to know that the car is a weapon that kills people in people who are unconscious and we know how many people die, we need to know in the least possible way. In my opinion, the restriction that in all modern world states too is a restriction. I have to say that the tolerance of our police and of the highways, of 150 you are not punished, and that's what I would say for praise, but over 160, 170, 180 miles that it's time to punish, maybe punishments are too great, and there, you can work on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147072	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Comrade Tudjman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Misic, you see what I miss is one precise analysis of how many of these accidents are when the vehicle is 150 and under what conditions it is not. So we're here on personal impressions or experiences. And that's something that I think is primarily a matter of a serious analysis and then this. However, these restrictions, both today and on highways and on cities, are no longer primarily due to accidents or accidents but for environmental reasons, and we have not yet reached that level at all, we have not come. And yet for that, we need a far more serious analysis that we do not have or at least analysis that did not come to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147074	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147075	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's colleague Tudjman I'm going to refer a little bit to this when you mentioned the restriction primarily on the state roads, I guess you were also thinking about the county roads that were probably at the level I was sure of in the '80s and the fleet that existed at the time. And I believe that before adopting this kind of really repressive law, we should have done a single analysis of the MUP in collaboration with Croatian roads, with the county road administrations, with local (regional) self-government units and make certain adjustments in these restrictions. Because we always have an example of the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia where when we all get there, then we respect the limitations. But I can say from personal experience that there are limits much more adapted to today's real moment than Croatia. So a little more should also affect these state institutions of the county to work more on maintaining and improving the system and not only... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147076	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147077	Thanks, buddy. I agree with you that merely vertical signalling does not follow these changes in ability, ability of the vehicle and that this should be changed. The Ministry will say that what, the M.O.P., that it's not responsible for it. So that's why the law should oblige us to reach a common standard at the level of the entire state that this signalling is regularly valorised and changed according to today's opportunities. A clear old man must not be abused and say that he should now be savaged in populated places but rather vice versa that if those speeds are increased on certain shares, then restrictions must be strictly respected where schools or other buildings, or residential areas must be kept.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147078	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147079	Thank you. Dear Comrade Tudjman, I see your argument as a discussion of a man who ran a lot of miles in a car, someone who knows what it is to drive a car. And you basically set two principles. The first one is transparent, visible to the principle in which the police are in line with their message of security and trust says we are here, following you, watching you, controlling you. And the second principle is this principle from the bush, from an ambush that you don't know that someone's filming you, that you don't know when a cop will jump out of your bush. And these are really two different principles. I see you're up for this first one, and I'm up for the first one because here's an example of an interceptor. You drive through the settlement, you come out of the settlement, you suddenly see behind you, you stick the car, you think a man is in a hurry, maybe someone gets sick, you squeeze the gas, and it squeezes, and the gas, at the end of the stop says you were driving fast. Is when you pushed me, says no, not you were driving fast. In that sense, and in the examples of practice, we see that it is not good that the police are not marked, so let the one who drives quickly and in that case should be really punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147080	Thank you. Comrade Tudjman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147081	Not only do I have a lot of miles, but I have over half a century of driver's license, which is quite unfortunately not to brag. This is a matter of principle of how the police act. In my opinion, if you put a sign on the radar, that there's a camera, that there's the police, so you drive fast, then you're on your own for punishment and for everything. And if someone's waiting for you in an ambush, then it's just another message and I don't think we need that kind of philosophy, we don't have to support it, and that's why I think these things should be changed how, as proposed. And there's a provision here that I don't think today was a word about, that these radar detection detectors can't be installed in the vehicle. I guess that provision is still about those criminal groups doing something else. , and not that provision can then remain if the radar is marked. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147082	Thank you for your response, Comrade Tudjman. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Katic and his associate, respected colleagues and respected citizens, first of all, are discussing the proposal for a road safety law. A rare area of life is so recognizable and in which we can recognize the mentality of one nation, one nation, in which we can recognize the state of justice as a road traffic. Why am I saying that? Here we see that road traffic is a kind of battlefield where there are positives, so all happiness is the highest part of the traffic participants and there is one smaller group of bad guys that creates disorder and unfortunately takes the lives of innocent people. So how to treat this group that's always causing problems, which is obsessing, which drives too fast, and really when you're driving on the highways, then you see that both foreigners, Austrians, Slovenians and others not to pick up, they're dusting here, forgive this expression, 200 km and more next to you. Why? Because they know they've come to a state that doesn't work, you know. Why? Well, because repressive measures, even though they exist, will not be implemented, and in their countries they must not do so. If you've been driving around the U.S., I've been driving a few times, you see that country over 320 million people, there's not there, there's no such thing as these hoodlums, they're really unfortunate phenomena. Why? Because the law put fear in everyone's bones in traffic. In what way? Not only for punishment, the fines are of course financial, the prison sentences are even more important, but why? Well, because on the spot there, it's working. If you're a hoodlum, and you drive, you can tolerate 150, but if you drive 200, then you need a gun-speak cop, and not a good day, please show your traffic, with your guns, hands on your car, handcuffs, to prison, to a quick trial, and to jail, and another great punishment. This in this consolidation of political power in the Republic of Croatia as it has been HDZ, SDP, it will never be, and that's why the laws don't apply to us, so we have and now we have a lot of good laws. Why don't these laws apply, and why, unfortunately, why is Mr Katic going to miss out on the front of the government, you're also representing the law in this law? So, we welcome the good intentions of the Party to change Croatia, there are good proposals, but this high-prison repression will be a repression against those who have low wages, have no property, and it will be a joke to those who have a lot of money and political ties or local ties to avoid this punishment or prison punishment and how this already works in our judiciary. So it was missed on two sides and projected and executed. You see, when we come with the support of the citizens of the next government and take some responsibility in that government, and we won't behave like this, you know, then on the road they'll solve, there won't be 50% of the payoffs right now and there won't be a call on this, to get out, to replace the sentence, I asked you before at the beginning of your exposure how much of those who are sentenced to jail for repetitive and the grave meanings of the heavy parts, the crimes in traffic, how much a prison sentence has been sentenced, how long it endures, and how much is replaced by some other kind of punishment. You didn't know how to answer me, maybe you don't have that information, I'm asking you to answer this question of my own, otherwise Mr. Vice President here has already raised the number of days here, it says here that on an average of 215 days I haven't received answers to my representative's questions, now it's 225 days and now I'm going to ask if as a representative of the citizens here, does it make any sense to write to anyone, first of all to the president HS when he sees no one at all, let's say so to us MPs, I hear and these others say that they're not responsible and so on. But we go back to this topic, so we change Croatia in this way we will not access it, the law will be implemented consistently, and especially according to those meanings that move a certain kind of relationship, here, because this society is woven so it's capillary, capillary clientelism, corruption, and it starts all of it. A cop on the road, he's the law, but intimately I'm sure that after they catch someone and break them, they see no punishment for that man, he sees that the law is not the same for Ivan and Peru, so he loses his motivation, you know, he loses his motivation, and so he pays him little, and now he's got something better equipped, before even his clothes were bad, his shoes are better, he says there's no money. You see, there's talk of ambush cops here, so what will they be ambushed for? So now technology is so developed, it sets up powerful electronic devices, but it says there's no money. Why isn't there any money? Because Croatian highways are not up to their throats, but over their heads are in charge. Tens of billions of kunas have so far been paid interest only means these debts. All we could solve means, Party Change Croatia we have a clear concept of restructuring of Croatian highways where we will free so much money that all electronic devices that are meant from radar to this one will be set up wherever it is necessary and it should not be harassed by the police, not in fact will be necessary so-called. The ambushes will be taken and all will be made clear. You've been driving the video 200 an hour and you'll get home this card, and then if you don't pay, then of course the processing goes on. So, it's no big deal, she's got that good old smart saying, which is more laws less justice. See, that's our problem. We have quite a lot of good laws now, but only the dear God knows himself in these great laws, because you can see about road safety at least every year for a few additions, so he comes here to the Assembly, but what's the key problem, it's not being implemented, it's not being implemented. That's the problem, as the state doesn't function here, here's the key problem, so we're not all equal before the law and we're not law enforcement. And that's what this is about. And these systems, you all learned that because you ran the state for 28 years, 29 years. And now I expect you to make a salto mortal, so it's impossible, such a mental set, it's all connected, no one touches anyone, you don't touch HDZ, even from HDZ today people argue that this isn't a good law that's too restrictive, but tomorrow they're going to vote for it. So, this says that the political system in Croatia, it is completely upside down here MPs do not act on their conscience but on party etc., etc. I'm going to end by now just say about another kind of threat, endangering security, and that's the detour of freight vehicles from the highway to the local roads. Why? Because it's too high, too high a toll price. And not only that, it was raised by 10% during the tourist season, and we all pay another 20 lips per litre of fuel. So are you normal people? Well, you've crushed citizens with VAT, excise duty of 20 lips, 10% during the tourist season, so I was in Hungary a month ago, they rose terribly positive. There's not even those vignettes that are beautiful that are disgusting, you just pay the bill, you get the code, and he checks you out. They went above Austria and Slovenia, etc. Therefore, we in Stranger Change Croatia everything is clear, we only invite citizens that people who have a clear concept, knowledge and determination to implement the law, to support us, and then we will very quickly solve these things that have been problems so far. We'll figure out a lot in the first year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147084	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147085	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, in your debate, I've detected a few things that I'm interested in making more clear. One of these things is, of course, I agree that repeaters of those who frequently violate traffic regulations, speed, that there should be even stronger punishment and that there should be no repression on whoever does it once or for a little excess. But I find this thesis that you said you'd handle on the street interesting. What does that mean on the street? Secondly, in order to make it even more appropriate for those who are inclined to pull strings, I am now interested in how would you determine who is the one who tends to pull strings and how would he be punished even more? And the third, you said you'd take every technique possible. Now I'm curious about which techs are specifically involved because apparently our police don't know, they're not educated, so give them a proposal, so they know exactly what to get. to avoid ambushes and to make the best of [[Intruder: Thank you.]] as Hungarians controlled what was going on on the road. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147086	Comrade Maras, I'd like you to be careful on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147087	Thank you, colleague Maras, for your questions, you have a lot of questions, you've answered a little bit when you were leading the country, but I'm glad you had this, you've been giving a few answers, but I'm glad you have a lot of questions and you should always learn. You asked what would be done on the street, so maybe it's a better expression on the road, is the street always having such a negative sound. Whoever drives a colleague Maras 200 or 220 doesn't have anyone sitting in there, it's very clear that he's not normal under quotes, so he's so threatening the lives of others, that he's like you're on a battle line that he's simply shooting a target in your head. You think Americans are crazy, obviously, when they come and go, it means only to those, the most aggressive. What would you do? You'd reward them with a brain? As for the technique, the technology for which you speak, so it is generally known, Slovenians have already announced in 2012 2014 It could mean training the police anywhere, that's not the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147088	I thank my colleague Lovrinović for his reply. The next replica, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147089	Dear Vice President and esteemed colleague, here you were talking about, yes, I understood you at least so here's a little clarification, that repression can solve this big problem. My opinion is that it can't, that all countries that have extremely repressive systems like that. The United States that did not solve this problem, you cited it as an example. In America, almost 3 million people are in prisons, every 100 Americans are in prisons, and 50% of Americans have someone in the family who's been in jail for a while, and violence on the streets is very much and there's not a problem with traffic safety. I think the solution to education, raising awareness, and the repression in the end never gets the success that we want. Here's a little comment I want.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147090	Thank you. My colleague Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147091	My colleague Zekanovic, I very much repeat a very precise, repressive attitude towards that one, so that's not one percent of the people, you understand? Of course, kindergarten education, so we all know that already. But I agree with you what repression means in a financial sense. This is repressive to people, extremely repressive who have low wages, a minimum of 3 to 5 grand, 6 thousand kunas, these are terrible punishments for them. And what is the penalty of 30 thousand kuna for one who has a salary of 40, 50 thousand kunas like those of a people's bank or property in millions of kunas? What does that mean for them? It doesn't mean anything to them, it's not repression. So this law is really repressive just so I don't tell the poor. The education program, of course, but according to these loaves. You know, you now know exactly who can't lose in a court of law in this country, whose cafe you can't enter, you can't enter a section of the settlement code, so you know what I'm talking about. That's where the state has to show its teeth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147092	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147093	Thank you. Dear fellow Lovrinović, you mentioned one important thing at the end of the debate. It seems to me that she was neglected and in the debate, you see, a little man's heart tightens when he sees so-called. TGV, a train that, say, goes to Paris to Lyon in an hour and a half, that's 400 kilometers away. We've consciously left all these years HH. Railway transport is among the most reliable, safest, most economical transports and when you talk about freight transport, that's why such freight transport is driving our roads. It's the same thing in passenger transport. Simply the railroad lost that battle with road transport even though it's far safer. What should be taken into account in the future from both economic points of view and certainly developed railways, because then these laws would make less sense. So the economic aspect also depends, in the economic aspect and development of the country, on the safety of transport and of course the type of traffic and speed that people come from point a to point b.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147094	Thank you. My colleague Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147095	Thank you, colleague Sagar for asking. Well, we must have blown up road traffic. And now what? But now you've made me, thank you for reminding me of one thing. We see that the mammal refinery is shut down. Do you know how many thousands of tanks will drive towards Rijeka every year, especially during the tourist season? Well, that's my people's terrible, terrible increase in uncertainty and danger on Croatian roads. That is why we fully agree on the need to, that this river-Zagreb railway should already be built and further the Hungarian-Serbian border, but that is not the point,... A lot of affairs, nothing comes, you just have to save ministers, so I say here we have to make a general so that the law and the state finally works and people are proud to live in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147096	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said your colleague Lovrinović, punishment, repression, that's the key word for this law. The only happiness is that today there is a new executive law at the government's meeting, so the costs, the new costs of the execution that will be tied to these penalties will be something much cheaper. And that's a good thing, here's the only good thing in this whole story. And this second part you said you're always trying to level the SDP, HDZ. I've always had access to listen to what people say and if they speak at least from HDZ and from the position at this point, what seems kind of acceptable, quality, well, I'll always support it as I'm going to criticise and what seems to me to be bad. But don't make the wrong conclusions out of it that we don't know the same, the same, or that maybe we're in some silent coalition, etc., it just doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147098	Thank you. My colleague Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147099	Please, dear Greek fellow, of course not all people are negative or just negative, that means there are both. There's a big problem with you that, as many as 8, 9 people have already come out and already supported this government. And I support some of the solutions of this law, I said that at the beginning of the speech, really which are meaningful in terms of phone calls, this one, that one, there are always good suggestions. But look, you were yours, actually the ratio of responsibility 2:1, so 2/3 HDZ, 1/3 SDP. So you've been in power, you've been able to sort out some of this stuff and detach Croatian highways, solve it. It's a horror. Tomorrow we will have a Party Let's change Croatia's press conference right around the highway and we will present some new knowledge. It's a horror, it's my people's barn, it's a threat to the state because of HAC, not just us driving the roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147100	Thank you. Next debate, respected counterpart Damjan Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147101	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, The living wall, of course, is to increase the safety of all road users. But this law is a simple blow for all citizens, for most drivers. You must be aware of 90% of the drivers of the current traffic participants are people who do not have high pay opportunities. These are people who have 4 to 5 thousand kuna salaries, so average citizens. Such an average citizen when a fine of 1,000 kuna comes, it's a terrible blow to his standard and budget. Well, he doesn't know how to tell a woman at home, so I got a fine of 1,000 kunas we have to pay for what we're gonna eat this week. It's his week's pay. You would double the fines with this law, some fines and triple the fines, so how are people going to pay for it? So, you're going to do a direct repression and a blow to any normal average citizen, and I have to say the problem is maybe 10%, not all, 10% is problematic. There may be a punishment for someone, and it's a terrible blow to them, and you have to understand that. One more thing I have to point out is that the prime minister, and his minister, this is just a way of filling the budget, so only the state budget is empty, only this is used to charge that budget, this whole law is one smokescreen to go ahead and fill the budget, and to prove it, I can prove it with cops who were actually just sent to the field to collect fines, going to the ground with a quota of how much punishment they have to collect that day, not to prevent. Instead of being around the school and making sure there's no accident there, they're forced to go to some stock where they know that drivers will pull 20 miles higher and, of course, they'll meet that quota and have those 10 or 20 fines to pick that day, so is that normal? It's not normal, of course it's not normal. You politicians, and also tycoons and their sons, they don't mind paying a fine of 1,000,00 kn, you have money, what is it to you, and what is it to a citizen who has 5,000,00 kn, so that's his blow. I'll just read you back here a few years of what all the politicians have done on our roads. Here's your 2005. Vesna Pusic flew off the highway, you have the Rijeka head of the Vera Begic Blecic's drunken guilty accident, killed a man, which is the worst that's already the third or fourth drunk accident, you have a Bandic who's drunkly blamed the accident, flees the police, what kind of message did you send? That cop was eventually punished, be careful. Cacic, who killed two people, likes to peek at you in a cup and former Varazdin Mayor Goran Habush, he's probably a recordr of how many six mills he's had in his blood. You've got one SDP guy Frank Vidovic, drunk on a motorcycle, shooting himself into a foothill in the Sibenik coast. Edi Stifanić's IDS Mayor, Poreč, 1.7 alcohol in the blood, landed off the road. I mean, you have a lot of stuff like this, and now you're thinking about what kind of message you're sending to the citizens. All these people are allowed to do such a thing, the punishment is nothing, they'll pay for it without a problem, they walk free, they have good lawyers, and on the other hand, you hit the citizens very, very well in the pocket. I've already said about what I think cops are forced to be just tax collectors, I think it's terrible, that first they have to get rid of some of that crime stuff in our country. I must also point out that the fleet is in the Republic of Croatia, the vehicles are 14 years old, you have to know people don't have money, that's why they drive so old cars, you'd still hit them in the pocket, it's, I mean, it's not right, this law, like all your laws of this government are actually aimed at the weakest, the weakest one who's going to have to pay those penalties, that's the worst. There's one more thing I'd like to say, here's some time for that. So the problem with some companies in some cities and municipalities is that they are directly connected to mayors and mayors, there is a very large corruption in the recovery of roads. Namely, some companies that do business directly with cities, as well as the state, which have a turnover of 100 million kuna a year, steal on the material. Here, you won't imagine stealing more, but their jobs have been overpaid three to five times, they're stealing material, they're having asphalt deposits, they're paved by asphalt, you've got, one piece, one piece of the road, and three times a year they've been paved up. What's going on? Except for the damage to the vehicle, that's where the accident happens. I talked to an inspector from Portia about a company, I won't mention a name, what she was putting off the Bezovica road without a valid permit. So that's where it happened in those few months to four, five accidents, the asphalt went down 20 centimeters, that's your share of over a mile long. I mean, there's everything that's going on, you're looking at this crime, not only are you looking at it, but you're directly involved in most of it, and here's nothing moving, nothing's happening. Nothing, thank you very much, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147102	Thanks to my colleague Vucelic, I would just like to remind you of a colleague, Vucelic, using a personal exchange of "you politicians", as far as I know you are elected as a politician in HS, so use "we politicians". Thank you very much, we have replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147103	Thank you very much. Comrade Vucelic, in this discussion of yours, a few things have made me very interested. So one thing is that in the debate itself, you have appealed that the penalties are too high and that it goes in the pocket to those who are going to break the law, and then you have cited several examples of those same ones who have violated and appealed to them to comply with the law or do I not understand whether you and these people, these politicians, would be reduced or sharpened by them? So, it's a little unsaid there, on the one hand, you're trying to keep the fines milder, and on the other hand you'd sanction, sanction one part of the offender probably harder than it's ever been before. So you have to be consistent, you have also entered the public scene, you have politics, you have developed responsibilities, you seem to be the deputy for the new European representative Sincic here who was also our fellow politician And I'm wondering how you'd solve that problem, if you'd go with [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Stronger punishments or would you, or would you ease? [[Invader: My fellow Maras thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147104	Reply from fellow Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147105	Thank you, Mr. Maras, for the replica. For the average citizen of this sentence are too high, but the current penalties, let alone to increase further. But for these troubled ones, especially those who think they're untouchable, which is, again, I'm going to tell you, most of the people who are in senior positions, or are that golden mole or are directly these tycoons, corporate executives, and they think they're above the law. To them such punishments are too small, they should be punished more harshly, but this law, as it is now designed, is not good because they are punished to the maximum, it means nothing to them. It would be best to punish the evidence of their property and their pay. That would be fair. That someone who has four thousand kunas, we don't punish the same as some tycoon, like a Horvatine or I don't know who. So we have to keep an eye on these things, we have to be socially sensitive, we have to consider, we actually have to think about that most people of normal people just happen, we have to be careful how we skin them in our pockets. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147106	The next replica, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147107	Dear colleague. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to set you up with a replica similar to that of my colleague Maras. But I understood. So it's not all the same if the penalty is going to pay someone who has 15 grand plus kuna or someone who's going to have three thousand kunas. The only just punishment is prison, prison is for everyone the same, although those who have money and influence, they will get better housing in prison than those who have no money and influence. So, I agree completely with you. This law is actually discriminatory because whoever has a lot of money, he doesn't have a problem paying 5, 10 and 15 thousand kuna, unlike the one that's done, who doesn't have money, who lives on a minimal, he literally throws this punishment on a beggar stick, and that's the important difference to point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147108	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147109	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic. Yeah, that's exactly what I was thinking. One of the biggest problems in this country that we live in a highly corrupt country. So every guy who has money, who's in some position, so he's gonna call his best man, his friend, he, or he's gonna take one of the other good lawyers, he's gonna come out free. So justice isn't the same for everyone. Such a man who tramples someone, kills someone, kills a man. Well, he'll walk free. Whoever has four thousand fines, a normal citizen, he'll end up in jail. So now they're not the same punishment for everything. So that's the biggest problem. The penalties aren't the same, and they won't be until we change things, and we all know how we're gonna change things in this country. That doesn't even have to be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147110	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vucelic. Now we will temporarily stop to discuss this item of the agenda and the foundation of the article. 249 and move on to the club stand. Since there is no one more registered for a position on behalf of the clubs, we are moving to the agenda point, and before that, I am reporting to you only that after this point we will have the agenda point Report of the mandate-immunity commission. Next to the debate, the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj reported, please welcome fellow Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147112	Thank you very much, Vice-President, distinguished secretary with his deputy, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us this final proposal to amend and supplement the Road Safety Act and, of course, to look at several segments. If only repression and sanctions are enough, that is the question, the government has decided on sanctions, the greater the penalties, however, I think the triba from several aspects to watch. I can talk about what we witness every day, every day we testify that the roads that are the most burdened in the Republic of Croatia such as the D1 State Road are simply not adequate for such traffic and that the government, having turned to the greatest sanctions now, should turn to the security arrangements i.e. Optimisation of road safety conditions. The secretary mentioned that co-operation with competent institutions dealing with roads, road construction, road safety, that this cooperation is good, but the fact is that, here I will mention another critical point where the safety and pedestrians and drivers and all traffic participants are simply at risk, it is a circular flow in the city centre of Sinja. The circular current on D1, where from D1 goes down another state road towards Han, where through Glavice no footstep, you'd like to look at it, it's a channel along the road from Han through Glavice where simple when you land you enter an open canal where there's huge traffic, it's just open road to Livn... That direction from Sinj, Sinj and Han, Livno, and in particular I am talking about this roundabout in the mornings where thousands of people drive to the vehicle through this circular course where there is a walking crossing on the state road, on two state roads that connect and where children, thousands of children in high school, primary school, from the bus station leave the city, in the mornings there are columns a few kilometers away and I have proposed that the amendment to solve this case with an underpass or superintendent when the budget was exclusively due to road safety, it is the centre of Sinj. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would ask the secretaries to check this information, and mainly in the mornings where police officers stand, but it's such a mess at this circular flow in Sinj that it's impossible for this trafficler to ensure traffic safety, it's from the smallest children to the biggest children in the city of Sinj. Without a follower or a superior, it's a disaster. Recently there was a traffic light here a few years ago, and then a roundabout solution was sought, and now immediately a few hundred meters away, 200 meters away we have at the municipality building in Sinj immediately we have the meaning of the centre of Sinj, we have a traffic light, and again a traffic light, but that roundabout is a catastrophic is the walking crossing of two state roads, I repeat to you two state roads, the state road from Sinj to Han and D1 means Split-Zagreb in the morning are columns, you don't know who's coming in, who's coming out, of course walking ahead, these children are in advantage, people rush to work and in this chaos is absolute uncertainty. For a great miracle, it's amazing how no greater evil has happened so far, but here's to preventing you I would ask you to check this circuit flow and see how this problem is solved. According to all the experts who deal with the area and who gave, there is no other solution without a guide and a superior. There is simply no other solution. I also warned this, it's a very important thing to collect and expensive highways, highways are the safest, they're safe enough to have and it's not by investing but by directing people who don't have funds and money mainly and transport traffic and drivers because simply too expensive roads go in alternative directions, alternative directions are of course state roads, county roads or some local roads and highways are mostly empty, mostly empty years. So I don't know what that meant was building a road to drive a population in alternative directions. Because I believe the highway is cheaper to be more secure in traffic, mainly on these state roads and local roads or countyally irrelevant that categorization and that would be the same traffic, that would be the same and even cash to be the same. And safety, because life is the most important thing. And the road because highways, so much money, so much debt, the question and the way it was done could have been cheaper, but it certainly could not have, about it should not have spread the story, mostly expensive highways, simply endangers security, increases uncertainty in alternative directions because of the inability to pay most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia financially go in alternative directions. And so transport and it threatens mainly through populated places because we know that state roads, county roads are through populated places and in these parts endangers, especially if there are no footsteps and at schools, code, I simply can't believe that some highway collects and that its citizens can't use that highway. I don't know who we made the highways for, like it's not a landing runway. Here I'd like to make a suggestion that this government, you mentioned that... There are only these repressive measures that we can agree on or disagree on, whether or not it is necessary and who threatens itself or someone else if it doesn't tie the belt, the phone probably endangers each other by research, cell phone, and going through red, in all these things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mostly those who repeat these acts, who endanger other lives, of course, need to stop all the shops to stop the great mortality on the roads. But why not use safer roads and cheaper for our citizens and use highways, highways. I don't see any reason, here, I don't know why all winter the highways are empty. I am now a parliamentary representative and I use meanings from Split to Zagreb, Dugopolje-Zagreb so there is literally no one on the road. They're all going in alternate directions because it's just cheaper. He pays for the highway from Dugopol to Zagreb so much fuel he spends on this alternative road D1. And that's a huge problem, so the busy roads are alternative. So think about cheaping for the safety of our citizens, for the cheaping of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia highway. Here's to sort it out, there's definitely going to be more people on the freeway, and it's definitely going to be the same financially because it's not going to be used. And as far as traffic safety is concerned, it would be possible to speak about local self-government itself, regional self-government, Croatian roads, Croatian governments, police at critical points, police are probably doing their job based on statistics, based on that. But I think we should get more involved and deal with critical points because our roads, or highways, do not meet all standards and pressures obviously as I mentioned. Here's an example we have meaning from Han, Sinj and Han, Livno, Billy Brig – Livno, simply through the Head of State Road is, it's a big settlement, the school, the children go, the canal, so we have no foothold but a huge channel that is essentially, taking water, which is not covered. And here if you happen to land there you can't stay alive, it's your tomb right now. So simply Croatian roads should analyse together with you possible critical points because already critical points I don't know how in this direction through the village of Glavice which is a huge village that has nothing to do with anyone, and the state road, that nothing happened to anyone. The same problem is this road from Sinj state towards Muć, where it is through villages... in the cemetery simply a disaster, these are all alternative routes of the highway used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The houses are on Muća in the hamlet... Right next to the village, they're right by the road of these villages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, I don't know how analyses can't get to the point that for the sake of traffic safety they need to be meant to solve these directions. Probably the police are doing the job, but since you're here in front of the government, I'd like to ask you to analyse these data I've been making and find a solution to traffic security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147113	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Next, that is, we have one replica, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147114	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Bulj in your debate, you emphasized one of those critical places. However, there are such places I will say hundreds in the Republic of Croatia. I am also pleased that as part of the National Road Safety Programme, the MUP also has a specific tender through which it grants funds to increase security, to resuscitate such places. What I have a grudge is that these funds are being allocated to millions of kunas in a very transparent way. First thing, the announcement of competitions often hidden on the ministry's page. After that, you never have a clear, transparent publication according to which criteria certain local units have received funds, i.e. roads in their area. That is why certain units of local self-government or county, where they know which party in power is always getting those funds and some cannot get. So a little more transparency here in this area, and yet it's about state budget funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147115	Thank you. Buddy Bull, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147116	Well, I would agree with you that it is obvious that it is necessary for leaders who in power have the same identity as those who are at regional and state level. I'll just give you an example, let's say in Split-Dalmatia County, when I was a candidate for mayor, you can't go through certain places, just to take out a sample of asphalt, you see exactly election cycles, when there were any election cycles, it's a little bit thinner when the Presidential, a little thinner when the European, a little bit thicker when parliamentary, a little thicker, simply election cycles, so that money is spent on asphalting the pre-election, so it's pre-election asphalting, which is really not correct and is allocated in that way. The critical points know the MUP, I believe that Croatia's roads should be analysed either by county roads or by the competent authorities, but here, obviously they have much more important pre-election asphaltation, so we have literally somewhere in the country that's now 30 years in power since there are municipalities and that more up to the stakes are paved when the elections, more chickens don't have di... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147117	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Next debate, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147118	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Your goal as you presented it, my goal, and I believe all of these parliamentary representatives who participated in the debate, including those who are not there, is to ensure maximum safety on Croatian roads and as best as possible to protect the lives of people involved in traffic. You bring a certain experience, certain statistics, certain things from the field that the police do every day and here we try to find the best measure. But the question is whether we have found the best measure in what we have discussed so far, which is between preventive measures and repressive measures. We have not yet received a clear picture of the impact on drivers, on citizens, on traffic participants having preventive measures and which preventative measures, which have repressive measures. So what I advocate is a comprehensive solution to this problem that will count all preventive measures and repressive measures and give us some analysis in order to see what their impact is in practice. And we know that citizens who break traffic regulations don't do it for the same reason. Sometimes we have some distracted citizens who, like, go through a red light or have a family trauma or trauma at work, yeah, they broke the law and they have to bear the penalty. That's what we've got those citizens doing it on purpose. We've got a so-called. Russian roulette that was known to be held on the streets of Zagreb where a group of hooligans were found, sat in cars and deliberately passed through red lights so who will pass through more. Now, that is, in fact with intent done, not only a crime but a threat to Croatian citizens. So there are different categories, and we have to have some way to figure them out. There are those who drive 160 on the highway and those who go crazy like mad, put others in danger, who drive over 200, or drive an uninterrupted zigzag. There are also those who drive in the opposite direction on the highway. Therefore, there are citizens who do this consciously and who don't care about regulations and there are those who do and I'm very sorry and are already very traumatized for breaking it and they don't need to be further traumatized. In that sense, I see two fundamental things we must work on. It's a matter of infrastructure and infrastructure primarily of our roads and equipment on those roads. We live in digital times. The EU has a tremendous investment in road equipment and is doing so. smart transport systems, mechanisms that connect both road and rail, aircraft and all others, all that goes through satellites. In this way they try to reduce the crowds, direct traffic to ensure the flow and the greater safety. What should, apart from lifting the fines, work more with other restoring ministries just to raise the quality of Croatian roads and their equipment. Mostovi, we had a recent opportunity which is also part of road infrastructure, but we have the opportunity to be in a ruinous state in the city of Zagreb and what we would say in Bosnia, free of all regulations and penalties, if the bridge collapses and threatens the safety of our citizens. Cameras have proved to be quite an effective means of prevention, especially those of cameras that need to record cars that drive too fast. They're on the wrong track. Sometimes we don't even know if they're really in those camera boxes or not, but they're doing a very good job on people, and there's already been a philosophy amongst the citizens, driving like a local car registration board, meaning locals. If Split's, too, when the Split is on the road, you have to, too, there's a camera somewhere, if you're in Zagreb, it's the same thing. So this is a preventive action that is far more effective than the punishment itself, which must exist, I agree, but I think we need to work more on prevention. counterpart Ostojic said when he spoke on behalf of the SDP Club that there are about 12,000 cameras that are out of use in this sense of security. It should be true, if anything else at least preventively might show where they are and it will already affect citizens to reduce speed and thus ensure greater road safety. We also mentioned police vehicles on the highways, as a good precautionary measure, I personally drove behind one, so a marked police vehicle, the vehicle is 130, 140 an hour, so here around the limit. No car dared threaten him. Thus, such a couple of vehicles do not have a more preventive effect than punishment or high penalties. As far as the regulations themselves are concerned, I think that they and a lot of this has been said today, should have been brought into line with modern technology and that technology must be taken into account. You're probably aware that even I don't know, from Google on, large multinational companies are developing a new generation of vehicles with sensors, we don't have such a accompanying infrastructure, but we should start thinking about it because all these regulations, tomorrow they're going to be pretty out of date regulations. But today, we must prepare ourselves for a new generation of transport technology, and we must not simply let it out of our minds. When we talk about illogically, many in Zagreb, let's say, we have a new road to the new airport Franjo Tudjman, right, three lanes on Heinzel Street, the limit is 60, and now that there's big traffic, you can't even drive anymore because it's big and dense traffic, but when there's no traffic, it's really like this, you're pulling a car, three lanes, no security threats, so those regulations should really be brought into line with the situation on the ground. One more thing is very important to me, and it's a matter of safety in the traffic of all participants, and so are cyclists who also use roads, and I usually do triathlons, and I'm often on a bike, and I see the culture of our drivers' non-existents, as well as the culture of drivers in Western Europe and Switzerland. So according to regulations, there is a driver's obligation to wait for the car to pass from the opposite direction to bypass the cyclist because it has to go around it at least a meter apart. I don't know if we have such regulations, I haven't read it anywhere, but it would be good if we could protect those traffickers with this or similar law. What is also important to me is the question, I know that the police are dealing with this issue and fighting, but how to ensure that a police officer is unsuspecting, so when we increase the penalty to this extent, it automatically opens up the possibility that he will release and unpunished a certain person without taking a certain part of that punishment to himself. I know it's an eternal problem, I know the police are dealing with it, but I'd like to hear if we have any papers on how high-tech technologies might be used to prevent this kind of corruption from being a traffic cop. We've heard today that there's a possibility that a cop has as much as they have in America a camera, when he's acting in car accidents or violations to see if he's keeping the letters of the law as the citizens are being asked. When I sum up all that I have said, then I share the opinion of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security that this law is still not in the enough stage of development that we can adopt it, that it should be more comprehensive, include many preventive measures, and in that sense I, on my part, suggest the withdrawal of this law, the completion of the law and the return to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147119	Thank you, and for your exposure we have a replica, the first respected representative of Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Klisovic, I heard from you because you encouraged when you spoke about the importance of modern equipment and infrastructure in order to improve traffic safety. Today, a meeting of the County Council on Road Safety was held in Rijeka, where unfortunately the data are not very happy because the number of people killed in the past 6 months. Compared to last year, it's certainly a little bit more worrying, but what I'm reporting about is a pilot project in Rijeka called the Automated Control System of Disrespecting Red Light. As far as I know, the first such case in Croatia will automatically detect the violation of the crossing through the intersection to the red light, the crossing of the stop line at the moment the red light is lit, the turn at the intersection in the forbidden direction, the misrestructuring and movement of the traffic lane intended for public transport vehicles. The project will last three months, based on it, to see further improvements in transport security.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147121	Thank you. Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147122	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, that is precisely what the bright examples of which I also thought, I didn't know about this one of yours, but I think that the very activities of Croatian local authorities or national authorities will contribute more to the security of traffic and less violations of traffic itself than exclusively and only the lifting of penalties. I'm saying, penalties must exist without further ado, but the criminal won't solve the problem and we want to solve the problem. The problem will be solved precisely by innovative solutions, whether national or within the EU and of course not by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure should also be connected with the European Commission which is really developing very high-quality transport management systems including roadways where we can rightly solve these key problems that plague us, we will not only solve them with increased penalties, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147123	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147124	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here I agree with you, what you mentioned in your debate, certainly this law has elements of repressivity in one piece even if here's what we heard today, many times here in the debate, is that citizens who are really, really going to have to agree with it, have too little pay, pay these dragon sentences, but my question to you is whether, in your opinion, we should think about introducing a certain income censorship in paying the fine, so to see and the full property status of the one who commits the violations, there are such examples in Finland, where you really look at it and think that Croatia is ready for such a single model because in my opinion, it would certainly be much fairer than this to pay everything equal to one proportional rate to express myself, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147125	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147126	Thank you very much. This system I believe would be difficult to introduce, there would be discrimination by income, therefore in criminal offences, it's not just an accident that happened to me, it's very often that it happened to me on purpose, or it didn't happen to me, but part of the intention, if it's part of the intention, then you have to be willing to pay the penalty that the law prescribes and not ask for some discount on punishment. But as I said, I do not see that the solution to the problem and the problem is to increase safety on Croatian roads and in traffic, punishment and repression. I see she's only part of the solution but not the dominant part of the solution. The prevailing part of the solution is therefore a new innovative way of managing traffic, road management, driving. Let's go use these new technologies, let's go describe the law for the good that's ahead of us and not for some past tense, let's actually get good information about how things work and go, and here I think we'll solve the problem, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147127	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147128	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor. There is an agreement here that everyone is for greater safety on Croatian roads, that offenders should be sanctioned, and that this law is somewhere on the trail to increase penalties, increase repression and that fear of punishment actually increases safety on Croatian roads. I think it's only a partial truth, or only a partial goal can be achieved. So, I think it is much more effective if it invests in education on raising citizens' awareness of the importance of behaviour in accordance with the regulations and behaviour on Croatian roads rather than only by repression. Because when we talk about repression, where's the end? Shall we bring in, for example, tomorrow? Here, I'll... just a hypothetical death sentence for a traffic violation? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we were to introduce her, I'm sure no one would even consider committing a crime or a fine of 100,000 kunas or a full payday. Is that the point? I don't think that's the point. I think that these penalties that are now really dragonous especially for citizens who live on a minimal, citizens who have a salary of 4.5,000 kuna, I think this just isn't right, plus it's about one big discrimination. This is about someone who has a salary as one parliamentary representative, state secretary, minister, salary 15, 16 thousand kuna, and more is easy to pay, or relatively easy, but someone who has a salary of 3 thousand kuna, 3.5 thousand kuna, 5 thousand kuna is much harder. So I think that this law is not equally effective for everyone, that more laws will again be followed by those who are, who will be more afraid and those who have less money, those who are poorer and those who are richer, will not care because they will simply be able to pay the penalty no matter how much they were. I don't know which model to offer but I don't like this model, here, generally I don't like it. A colleague Varda here spoke at a pay phone as he drives 150, 160 km per hour on the highway, we all know that on our highways is enabled, that is to say 130 maximum, but I will ask one hypothetical question again, today we allow every Croatian citizen, a citizen to buy a car that will be able to go 300 km/h and more than 300 km, and I think that the slowest ones today go at least 150, 160 that are on the market for new cars. And the maximum speed permit in Croatia is 130 km/h. Why we allow the purchase of cars that we cannot use in the way their performances allow. What's with the cars? As far as I know, Germany has no speed limit. Let's make nice limits, limit all cars. Let's put the limiters on. Why would someone have the opportunity to drive 140, 150 when there is no road in Croatia on which you can drive 131 km/h. For what? It's like letting everyone buy cannons today, hoodies, and with full hoodies going around town but they can't shoot, they can't shoot. Let's make it possible, i.e. make it impossible. Furthermore, here we talk about shooting, today we live in a great big black society. So here's the ministry boasted, just before, these days to set up, I might be wrong about a number of 122 new cameras that will mean monitoring traffic in the Republic of Croatia and already have several hundred and there will be hundreds more. And then we'll happen to have thousands of cameras in a few years, literally every inch of Croatian roads will be covered with cameras. And who did I let film me? Can anyone, meaning, who gave the state the right to film every single person anywhere? Here, Bandic will now set up several thousand cameras around Zagreb, soon cameras will be placed in the halls in the port. Will the cameras be coming to the homes tomorrow? Where's the border? Where's the border? Because I would make it easier for the ministry, or the state, why wouldn't every car coming to Croatia have that famous tracker. Let's be the first in the world so every car we follow, it's not expensive, it's not complicated, for 100 kuna can be done today so one software and we have today all software will be able to track every car in real time where it is and there's no problem. Or better yet, we all have these gadgets in our hands, in our pockets that can easily locate where a citizen is. Let's follow people, let's follow cars. Is that the company we're after? I'm not for this kind of company, I'm not for control society, I'm a society of repression, I'm a society of fear, but I'm for this huge money, and one camera says, it costs, you need to check out 380 thousand kunas in raising citizens' awareness. Furthermore, there is another problem very sanctioned here, meaning one behavior through driving that use of mobile devices. And now every new modern car has a travel computer that's sophisticated, that takes even more attention than it takes away this miracle. So someone can literally watch a movie on a travel computer because they're television and on the other hand if they call someone on the phone they'll be punished. Is that a clear rule for rules or do we want to talk about safety on our roads? Finally, I would point out here that here we have a very restrictive Law on fans, the Law on Transport Safety, and when we talk about economic crime, then we don't have restrictive laws, then the laws are extremely mild, and then it's looked through the fingers, and then there's no cameras, and then there's no surveillance devices. I'm not for the big brown society, I'm not for this surveillance of every corner of our country, especially I'll say without permission. If that's where we're going and we're gonna be followed everywhere, watched, because we're gonna be strictly sanctioned, I don't like it. I'd be a little off topic here, I hope the vice president lets me because I don't have any other business opportunities. Here, one day ago, there was an event that no one was or rarely who, I'll say, commented in our homeland, and it was about shutting down the aluminium bridge factory. Nine hundred workers on the street. What is interesting, and is not said, 12% of the bridge factory in which the Croatian state invested 9m euros in the year 97 is owned by the Croatian state. I haven't heard from Prime Minister Plenkovic, I haven't heard from President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic that she said about this big loss for the Croatian people in BiH, namely Mostar. Everybody's quiet. And it's about economic cataclysm. I want to know who's to blame here. Who's to blame, why nine hundred people are going to the street. I come from Sibenik, and Sibenik had the same experience on September 18, 1991, when JNA rocketed the light metal plant in Sibenik with its fighter aircraft and then 5 thousand workers were out of work, went to the street, and at this point I deeply sympathise with those who lost their jobs. But I'm looking for an explanation. I demand an explanation or comment, the reason for those representing the Croatian state, is the president and prime minister, the Prime Minister. Let them say what happened, why no reaction? What about 12% stakes, Croatian stakes in the factory and what about 9 hundred jobs, Croats, masha hrvats, in Mostar? Shall we look for them, i.e. Will the prime minister ask to vote tomorrow for HDZ or maybe not, I'm not sure after this. But it's a very difficult situation that nobody's talking about, and it's got to be talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147129	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas, just please, not about the Aluminium from Mostar. The first is the replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147130	Thank you, Vice President. He's a colleague of Zekanovic's. In your discussion, you mentioned that the repression in you would never get a result and that you were not in favour of repression and that your education was much more effective. I agree, in part, with you, however, there are situations where obviously education itself is not enough and when repression is needed to actually turn the most radicals on the right path. You mention the death penalty, and you wonder if that's the goal, of course, of course not, and it's not the punishment for the citizens who live on the minimal that you're talking about, these are the penalties, especially for those who are hard on the relapsers and those who are involved in traffic, who are really the most serious offenders, and in fact those who, when we're talking about the death penalty, are those who sign the death penalty for all those who are on their way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147131	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147132	Dear colleague Liposchak. I was talking about the principle of one. Look, tomorrow when there are 10,000 cameras in Croatia and every millimeter of Croatian traffic is covered by surveillance cameras, I would like the ministry to introduce me tomorrow then a limiter in the car and a device that will limit me at the maximum speed of driving. Because it simply won't be possible to drive from point A to point B to the shortest relations, so as not to violate any traffic regulations. And punishment, it means, and that one constant fear of punishment, if you've crossed a five-mile-an-hour limit, if you're any, I don't know, if you've touched a cell phone in a car or anything else, I don't think it's good. Let's get this straight. All those relapsers that you've made very nice, should be punished, and it's extremely harsh, but generally, my view is that the repression won't get the result we're expecting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147133	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's a colleague of Zekanovic's. As for this application of new technologies in traffic control, I agree with you that we are not going to have some big girl on the streets and in the city and in the cities and on the roads. However, there are some critical, critical places. First of all, there are intersections and traffic lights. So you have a mass of examples where people just go through the red light are definitely a place where they need to install cameras and they need to be controlled and not only in terms of preventing someone from going through the red but even when people go through the yellow or the penalty angry, that they can see and determine the moment when we happen to have a policeman there who will then argue and prove that he went through red or did not go through red. So it goes in favor of everyone and that kind of thing certainly needs to be preferred, here, it's mine in some way and a message to people, responsible people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147135	The response of the respected representative Zekaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147136	... Please turn yourself in. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Well, I agree with you. So, I'm here for as much traffic security as possible. However, I have one, I suppose many others have one fear of that too much control. Today in China you have software that is already in function, cameras, like these on our roads, just a little more sophisticated. Who recognize the face of a man. These cameras of ours can suddenly recognize registrations in various situations, these cameras can be five hundred people one camera recognized where they are. And today in China, in major cities, at any moment, someone from the Ministry or the Secret Service knows where you're talking to, what you're doing, and we're going that way, and they were here where we were 10 years ago. I don't like it. I just don't like that much control. So the big brown on the Croatian streets, I don't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147137	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dabor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147138	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Zekanovic's. In your debate, you pointed out a difficult... in the case of a camera. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I come from an area where from Starigrad to Pakostane, or Biograd, there are about 10 cameras that have given extraordinary effects in the traffic of the entire stock and respect for certain restrictions and all other rules that actually traffic requires and therefore I welcome the ministry's decision in this case and Croatian roads to place as many such aids or cameras on all shares starting from state roads, county and highways. Thank you very much. Because all the other preventions won't benefit as much as I can give these exactly the things I've been saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147139	Thank you. Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147140	Dear colleague Lonchar, I will repeat, I agree that fear of punishment from the dragon penalty is very effective, very effective when a man is afraid of something, then he is afraid. But then when you let him off the chain a little bit, then when he goes where there's no cameras, and he knows where there's no cameras, today there are, today we know where there's no cameras, and then he's gonna get loose, then he's gonna drink a little bit, etc. So, I also think it's wrong, that a lot more should be invested in this other way, means another way, and that's education, raising awareness, a lot, a lot more because by repression we're just going to have a real situation that these things are going to happen not in that place but somewhere else. It's gonna happen, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147141	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147142	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, here's a very short one. So today we talked about this subject and from the point of view, me and my club were both critical of this law, especially in part because we think it's quite repressive, of course, given that these penalties are still moving in certain ranges. So, what's for example? So far, between 5 and 15,000 will now be from 10 to 20,000, then there is the possibility that in a regular procedure and the judge for the offences determines the penalty lower, but here, as we see in many cases, that penalty will be the lowest one twice as much as the one so far. There may be an eye, a dispute over whether the punishment should indeed be so great. Here, today, we have now also had a board session and a proposal to mark October 21st as the day of not using a mobile in traffic, without a mobile in traffic, and there are penalties raised quite significantly. Here, distinguished secretary of state, and for the public, why do we react to this law? So we represent the citizens and we're the only ones involved in traffic, and now look at this example of cell phone tickets. So what's the point of the problem? Croatia's fleet is older on average than the EU countries and then a man, so a man can't stand what to do with his cell phone, so he has to put it in his ear. Today new cars have the opportunity to technologically you when you get in the car to connect on the bluetooth either way and practically talk to the car, no longer with that device. That's just the point. So, we can't just repress, people would buy a new car if they could, they couldn't buy a new car, they had to drive in old cars and then call it a random kid, he'd answer his phone, there'd be problems. I agree with this, above all, security, but many will, many will be punished dragonically even though they did not objectively cause danger. And now in the end, why did we answer the most for this closing word? We now and now have a large number of Croatian police officers who care about road safety and traffic, who are doing their job, and I wanted to point out that this debate is in no way directed against them. I have never personally had bad experience with the Croatian police, they have acted professionally, even when you are in violation explaining what the offence is and I believe they will respect the law. However, if we determine such a rigorous law for them, they will have to implement it so rigorously, and let us not interfere with the idea that it is they who meet with living people. They meet people's fates. Someone here said if a man gets a fine of 1,000 kuna if he's going to have that week for bread, that's why a Croatian policeman has to give him that sentence. And that's the problem. That's why we think the repression isn't by itself a solution and we think it would be, now it's over, another reading, I think it would be good if you accepted some of the amendments. And I've set up an amendment that's especially on this weakest speed overrun, so that a cop doesn't get to punish, of course, by respecting tolerance, to say you drove 51 miles an hour and a penalty. In the future, the ministry needs to pay attention to prevention, but prevention costs much more than repression. But now that we see the prices and the cameras and everything, we're still wondering if that's what it really is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147143	The next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinic will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147144	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, namely when reading this Law on Road Safety, or amending and supplementing more or less by looking from the driver's point of view, we are all in some way present daily in traffic and we, our club, the HNS Club as liberals are not very prone to over-repression. But the question arises, however, how to prevent certain things from repeating themselves, and it is primarily about the works of what the law seeks to sanction from traffic safety, from belts, from cell phones, from speeding, so I say that even though we are not in principle for repression, we must agree with this bill and with all the details it writes. But first of all, I would like to warn you of one more thing, even though it was during the debate and on behalf of the promoter, it is primarily the situation on our roads. Although it is not directly within the jurisdiction of this ministry, the categorisation of roads from unclassified local, county, state roads, highways I think is also one of the key factors, although traffic signalling is largely covered and regarding visual marking, I also believe that from an increased number of vehicles, looking back statistically, 10g. I also believe that as regards the transport infrastructure itself, certain categories of traffic should be re-tegorised simply because they are not adequate for today's conditions and the amount of traffic on these roads. Especially as far as county roads are concerned, I think you can all confirm that by looking back at how few years the funds for regular maintenance are reduced because it is not a problem once a year technical examination. However, when you look at the number of traffics that are most trafficked during the day, month, year, how many impact holes there are, how many other factors, it means by looking at the very quality of the wheels directly affecting the safety of the vehicle itself. So that a large number of accidents or material damages, don't let God of Human Victims can be seen in part of the quality of roads, not to mention unclassified roads that are exclusively financed by local self-government where they don't get any June, no fuel base, no other laws that regulate road financing. Of course, it's not the subject of this law, but at the HNS Club, we wanted to stress that part of that segment because I think it's a key prerequisite, a key condition and a safe transport and quality, the quality of the roads it traffics on, respecting both the increase in the number of vehicles and everything else. I say we will support these amendments and additions to the law, but I would also like to, and that is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior, although it is a question of how much in practice and can be done given the lack of time to pay greater attention to the quality of the stakes themselves to the extent that it is the jurisdiction of the direct traffic police. Of course, I believe that it will improve the many conditions so that in that part of the traffic police can take part in their responsibility under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147145	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Katic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, I think the purpose of this debate is that one question is whether this law has found the best measure between preventive and repressive action. I pointed out in the opening section and some MPs talked about it, I think it's clear to you that prevention and preventive action cannot be prescribed by law. Unfortunately, the law remains that repressive act that no one loves, but sometimes it's inevitable. In this case, the Proposer believes that it is necessary to increase sanctions, therefore increase repression, but prevention remains our first choice. The preventive action of the police does not abandon it, it constantly works, promotes it, and we will give the future an even greater emphasis on preventive action. I pointed out, not to be repeated, in my opening statement which are preventive actions and what all police are doing to prevent the most serious violations from taking place. However, there was also a complaint of course about the level of sanctions. How to sanction or how easier to sanction someone who goes through a red on purpose, who drives in the opposite direction on a highway or road intended for the traffic of motor vehicles, who drives with more than 1.5% of blood alcohol spills, I think for such people and even those who do such works or better words of the misdemeanor repeat, I don't think there is, can be no justification. I mentioned in the last year 39 entering the car road and driving in the opposite direction, so you know that such a violation cannot be committed by a person who, along with that offence she was certainly very heavily drunk or had some other problem, so it is difficult to be confused and get in the opposite direction on the highway, but if you are dead drunk, it is of course possible and so happens most often. So, very often there is also the acquisition of the offence, so in one store there will be more violations or sometimes criminal acts, and as we know, the ride has been since 2011. and in the Penal Code in Art. 226. For an obstinate ride, jail time is scheduled until 3rd year, and in the description of that crime, it is stated, in fact, that, crossing the column in untransparent places or bandages, going through red, driving in the opposite direction on the highway, driving under a considerable influence of alcohol, so more than 1.5 prominences, and so all of what we are essentially trying to prevent here and here in this law through criminal sanctions, we therefore have a crime here where they can arise and when even more serious consequences of human suffering occur. There has been talk of, therefore, that this prevention would be as effective as possible about marking and informing citizens that certain shootings are being done, that there are certain cameras somewhere. Speaking of camera words, it's actually speed measurement devices, stationary devices and they're quite different from what we call a camera, so these cameras that are on highway tunnels or in various other places that are intended for a particular video recording, and these special cameras, in fact, measure speed, and they're designed to measure exactly the speed, to record exactly the driver's registration mark, etc., while these cameras that are used for video surveillance in tunnels, for example, are not so precise and they can't usually serve us when determining the perpetrators of the offence. The provisions on traffic signs, signalling and equipment on highways are being prepared and some new signs will be provided, such as a sign for recording surveillance, where traffic speed control or for these cameras etc. will be recorded. So, as technology, technology and legal regulations are advanced, it has to be followed otherwise not all of these advantages that new technologies give us would not benefit, and in any case there have been talks about using new technologies if it is possible to monitor it financially, and new technologies will be constantly introduced that will be cheaper, more reliable, so it will rule out that human factor and possible mistake that any man, so also a policeman, and so the driver of course can commit. It has been mentioned why our drivers, when they drive in other countries, follow regulations, and they do so much less and vice versa, so as soon as they come to our roads, they don't immediately respect the rules, so they adapt to some condition here. So, the reason for that is certainly the height of punishment, but even more, I agree with you, even more certainty of punishment, if someone is sure that if he had certain criminal behavior and sanctioned as the law says, then he will very easily turn away from committing such offences and crimes. So, the police must do their job in quality, but the whole system all the way to the judiciary must also do well because some, and unfortunately, we all know it, and then it will not be, and the purpose of the punishment will not be achieved, and such examples will also affect others not to comply with the rules. But with an indignity, I would say no here, for example, Mr. Damjan Vucelic, who says, I will only mention him here individually because I think he spoke in a way that shouldn't be spoken in this home, which he believes is because of their social, property or other origins that they are destined to commit the offence, and some of them because they are poor, they are not foreordained. I don't think we can talk about people in advance, but about their actions, everyone can do the work regardless of its origin, the status in society or the thickness of the bank account, both the poor and rich and the high and any color of the skin, so let's talk about behavior, not the person and think in advance that some person will commit crimes, and let's not or that some person will succeed in exculpating what some people know, and others won't be able to do. And that's what you're saying here, so here it's said in front of all of us, you're not only looking at this crime, but you're also taking part in it, but it wasn't just about this theme of road safety, but in general about the state of society, so I'm refusing to do it with indignity, and I believe the vast majority or all of you here, we're involved in some crime, and we're not encouraging it, and in our duties, we'd have to actively prevent it, so we don't even turn our heads so we don't see anything. So, such sentences, I must make clear here with indignity and detestation. There have been a lot of talk about encouraging the use of highways, it is certainly being imposed as a logical question and it will take more detailed talks with concessionaries, but we can see that, say, highways or Croatian highways or highways Zagreb-Rijeka offer an ENC device that allows you to drive cheaper, if I remember well for 21.5% and avoid crowds because it is usually on those roads to ENC much less crowded than on this other one, but therefore very few people benefit from how much I have been able to see. So already one offer for 21% cheaper driving does not go to a large number of citizens, but definitely there is this problem, our highways are a little bit used, surely the reason for this is in one part and the price and it definitely needs to be done more. Finally, there were talks about sanctions that would be imposed towards the level of the perpetrator's income, again I return to what I said at the introduction that this is, mainly not exclusively, about hard-core perpetrators, reciprocated, ruthless persons who do not care about the endangerment of other lives, and often people who ride with them and those close to them, let alone others, and that would not be appropriate. In addition, it is difficult to implement this, it is necessary to reform all of our legislation, therefore criminal and breaking legislation, and often it would not be fair to be honest because we know that in very expensive vehicles people drive who, when they look at their receipts, do not correspond exactly to each other. So some countries know that they have, primarily, the countries of northern Europe, the Scandinavian countries, but that should therefore be the root change in our legislation, which I personally don't think would be fair in many cases. This is how much I believe, I believe, with the measures provided for in this final bill, we will improve the safety of road traffic, but there remains a continuing, grueling regular work of the police and all others who have been mentioned here in this debate that the safety of road traffic brings to a higher level and to prevent the loss of the most frequent young life, the life in the tension of power that we know people are missing, every life is precious to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147147	We have one replica of the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147148	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, so the debate that took place here today in the Croatian Parliament went to the point that a lot of MPs opposed the increase in fines and that it was demanded that the very ones who spoke earlier should be punished more and more significantly. So one thing is when it happens to you once and when you're driving normally regular and the other is when you have frequent penalties, etc. And as far as I understand the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, they are for the more rigorous punishment of those who often, and even to the extent that the penalties for them are increased, to make it difficult for them, to get their driving licenses back, etc., compared to those who do it for the first time. So on that side, I've come to understand a lot of debates and it can be logical and maybe if some amendments were submitted until the vote itself could be accepted by some of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147149	Thank you. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147150	We move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 616. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Miroslav Tudjman, MPs Petar Škorić, Ljubica Maksimčuk and Josip Djakić, Legislator's Committee, IDS, PGS and RI Club, respected representative Vlaho Orepić and Club of Independent Representatives. The review of the amendment was submitted by electronic means. We are moving to the 1st amendment of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Secretary of State, Mr Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147151	Thank you very much. The first amendment is accepted. It's that technical expression that makes this norm more clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147152	Thank you, it becomes an integral part of the law. We move on to the second amendment of the Independent Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147153	The amendment is not accepted. The adoption of the proposed amendment would endanger the safety of traffic in settlements. It is generally known that by increasing the speed of 10 km/h, the stopping path of the vehicle, the consequences of the traffic accidents, as well as the material damage. Similarly, it should be pointed out that, when measuring the speed, the measured speed is already reduced by the safety difference which is 10 km/h for the measured speed of up to 100 km/h, therefore it is not possible to sanction a driver with a speed of up to 60 km/h.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147154	Thank you. Please plead, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147155	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a while ago I was driving a neighbor to buy a man's paprika, and he's a little older so he sees and hears weaker. A car ran right past us, he came to see us, it was in the neighborhood, I was driving somewhere a little above the speed limit. He passed by and the neighbor grabbed the doorknob, and I said, "Where are you going next door?" He thought we were standing, going outside the man. The intensity of this law, you said it, was punishing the greatest offenders, the worst forms.../incomprehensible.... Look at the waist says I agree with you if you say that a 10-mile-an-hour speed gain significantly increases the stopping path. But look, you have villages that have 80 km/h limits just like on some kind of bypasses. Whoever determines that, I don't know why. But I say again, take now the cameras that are placed in the settlements. A man who drives something above the permitted speed with tolerance, of course I understand that can then be 11 km/h above the permitted speed, telephones on his mobile, which is not allowed and is one of the strictest sanctions, he will be recorded with that device and will be punished. The one who phones at the same time, puts his finger in his ear, drives around, you don't know if he's going to reverse, where he's going to drive, he won't be punished, even in that part it seems a little bit unconstitutional. It's not an intensities, you said yourself that the repression is going towards the weakest forms of this violation of the law, but it should be done by prevention. But right now by refusing this amendment, you say it's not like that. So we want to fill the budget and we want to do it this way like, forgive me now for being a little chicken-freeze, 300 kuna, so we're going to be 150 because the man was driving 1 or 2 km/h above the limit. Or so I don't know what the police are, so let the cameras then move to a higher level of speed measurement because in many villages they are set up and there will be a lot of significant penalties about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147156	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. We move on to the Third Amendment of Honored Representative of Professor Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147157	The amendment is not accepted. A total of more than 85,000 misdemeanors were found in the last year for non-use of the safety belt, and this is also the frequency of another infringement after overspeed. The current National Road Safety Programme is one of the objectives set is to achieve 98% safety-belt use by drivers and passengers in vehicles. However, research has shown that only 81% use it, 61% of drivers and passengers, and only 14% of persons and passengers in the rear seats. Decommissioning from the vehicle due to non-connection of an average loss of 30 persons per year and with reliable certainty, it can be said that if the safety benefits were 10% less fatal in transport, we cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147158	Thank you. Here you go, Professor Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147159	Thank you. The numbers say something else. 500 kuna for, the existing 500 kuna is 8.7% of the average personal salary in Croatia. This increase to 1,000 kuna would mean that the fine would be 17% of the average personal salary. I think it's disproportionate to the fact that the non-binding of the belt does not endanger other traffic participants, but damages the one who hasn't tied himself up. That this philosophy, that it goes to sanction, and not act preventively, I don't think it's good and I don't believe there's a country in Europe that, with 17% personal, the average of personal income, is being punished for non-binding belts. So if it really wanted to prevent it, then it could be solved in a different way, so it would increase the rate of payment of health insurance in case of an accident, so it would be another message and people would be more responsible when it comes to belting. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147160	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. We move on to the Fourth Amendment of Representatives Petar Škorić and Ljubice Maksimčuk and Josip Djakić. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147161	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147162	I thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. We're moving on to the Fifth Amendment, the respected representative of Professor Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147163	The amendment is not accepted. A previous amendment has been accepted to reduce the proposed amount of fines from 1,500 to 1,000 kuna and we think that's the maximum that could be done at the moment. We know that driving attention is extremely dangerous for road safety. The biggest distributor, or what draws attention today, is certainly a cell phone and research has shown that in Croatia 91% of drivers use a cell phone and even 33% of cyclists, and 55% of them would not use a cell phone if the sanctions were stricter. We therefore remain under this prescribed or reduced penalty for accepting the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147164	Thank you. Please plead Professor Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147165	Again, we must face facts. The penalty ratio for mobile phones in Europe compared to the average personal income goes from 12% to 13%. Rarely the country has over 10%. Three countries are over 10% who have a fine relative to the average of personal income that is Portugal, Great Britain and another country. If this proposal was left with you, which you are, the original proposal without this amendment, Croatia would have 25% for a personal income mobile ticket, this is how it will have 17%. So again we will be not only at the top, but above all others in Europe by punishing for this. This is not about contesting the danger of using mobiles in driving but simply about inappropriate solutions because the penalty, the increase in the penalty simply is contrary to those countries' policies which have much less mortality and have much less penalties for using mobiles in driving. So the solution could be to ask for these devices to be installed so that without these handsfree devices, that you can use your mobile without using your hands in driving or other solutions, and not this kind of dragon penalties, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147166	Thank you. We move to the 6th Amendment of the IDS, PGS and RI Club, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147167	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the passing of the examinations from the class of vehicle management for A1, A2, A or AM category shall be carried out by means of a candidate for passing a controlled vehicle test in front of a category B vehicle with an authorised interrogator giving instructions to the applicant by means of headphones in a protective helmet. The audio-visual recording equipment shall be located in an authorised interviewer and shall be conducted in the vehicle in which it is located, so to vehicle B category. The recording process itself will be more detailed by means of a sublegal act or by the rules on the conduct of driving tests.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147168	Thank you. Dear colleague Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147169	Thank you very much. I do not agree with the argument, in fact, the proposal for this amendment itself was of a technical nature because it was more meaningful or not clear enough in Article 35. the moto-categories, the one who passed the exam, are on board the vehicle outside and therefore we added this interpretation to bring them closer to the mark or explain that it is within vehicle B of the category to monitor the conduct of the exams, so that it is not unclear, so that we are asking of course for a vote under that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147170	Thank you. We move on to the 7th Amendment of the Honorable Representative of Vlaha Orepic, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147171	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted and the reasons are the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147172	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147173	We don't accept that position and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147174	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. We move on to the 8th Amendment of the Honored Representative, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147175	The amendment is not accepted. The marking of locations where the vehicle speed measurement devices, fixed, mobile and stationary are located is currently not possible because the traffic sign, signalling and road equipment which is normally in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which prescribes the way, appearance and significance of certain traffic signs, does not provide such a sign, however, changes to that Regulation and are currently in conformity and are envisaged in the working version of the appearance of these characters, so a sign showing speed control and video traffic surveillance. So otherwise, in order to prevent heavy traffic accidents that cause speed, the ministry has publicly announced the location of all fixed speed measurement devices and also in the use of other measuring devices, so these portable devices, the public is regularly informed through radio stations about the shares and time of speed control on certain roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147176	Thank you. Prof. Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147177	Thank you, sir. So what you said is that it's being published in contradiction with the refusal of this amendment because if it means publishing then it should be something that is marked by signs because we can't all follow everything, remember all the locations within Croatia in the area in which we move, and in particular this information is not available to foreign drivers who are particularly in the season more participants in traffic, therefore there should be a commitment here, and only it is said that this obligation and only it is said that the obligation exists and that this information is available because the purpose of it being a preventive action and we know it itself, and you know that the number of these cameras and radars is generally 50% smaller, thus already increasing traffic safety and sending one other message, and then this context is such a provision, and then in those other cases that we have been talking about, that it is not waiting in traffic participants's ambushes, but that it is already increasing its presence in traffic and this context. Interceptors or police vehicles are acting on traffickers to respect the signs, requesting a vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147178	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment, thank the Secretary of State, Mr Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147179	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 616. The promoter is the Government, the debate is closed, and the amendments were submitted by MP Miroslav Tudjman, joint representatives Petar Škorić, Ljubica Maksimčuk and Josip Djakić, the Committee for Law, PGS and LRI, Vlaho Orepić and the Independent Representatives' Club. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. Let's take it in a row. The first is the Legislative Committee, he is accepted. The second is the Independent Representatives' Club, he's not accepted, so we have to vote on him. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number three, Representative Miroslav Tudjman, he's not accepted, let's vote on him. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number four, MPs Petar Škorić, Ljubica Maksimčuk and Josip Djakic, the amendment was accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment number five of the representatives of Miroslav Tudjman has not been accepted, so I ask you to vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number six of the IDS, PGS and LRI Clubs is not accepted, so please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number seven, representative of Vlaha Orepic, did not win, no, the government does not accept it, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And the final amendment of MP Miroslav Tudjman, who the government does not accept, so we must vote I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. [[Intruder: HDZ versus Tudjman votes.]] We will now vote on the final proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. Please, let's vote. I find that for the majority of votes 75 for, 25 abstentions and 12 votes against the passed Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have just passed the law, it is essential to vote on the proposal to vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the GLAS and HSU Club which has proposed not to adopt the final proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147180	I would now suggest that we unite the following two points and that the debate be united in accordance with Article 247. Rules of Procedure, here's a proposal from Honorable Representative Dark Taritash and I hope we'll all accept it. Do you agree with us to include, to discuss two points together? Okay, thank you very much. So now we will discuss together: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, first reading, P.Z.E. 659 and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, First Reading, P.Z. Number 661. Both laws are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed Željko Uhlir, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147181	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the representatives, chairing both of these laws, which will be discussed today, were thoroughly processed in 2015 and arranged by them among other things, the Law on Jobs and Activities, the conduct of professional affairs of spatial planning, design or professional supervision of construction, the operation of construction, the operation of jobs and activities, the management of the project of construction, and the operation of the business and the activities of studies and previous research. This law also provides for the provision of services in the capacity of responsible persons under the task of professions, the obligation to pass an expert examination, responsible persons in spatial planning and construction, professional training and conditions for foreign persons performing the activities of spatial planning and construction in the Republic of Croatia on a temporary or occasional basis or on a permanent basis. The purpose of the adoption of this Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction is to administratively relieve professional business services, which is part of the government's current economic policy. It shall be implemented in accordance with the measures laid down in the Administrative Discharge Action Plan 2019, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in January '19. A year. Namely, the measurement of administrative burdens for construction engineers or workers by applying the standard cost methodology has shown a significant administrative discharge for cca 5,500 chamber members who would replace mandatory membership in the chamber with an optional register in the chamber directory. At the average price of the annual membership fee, savings from cca 10 million kuna per year were estimated, and this cost was partly poured over to the employer. According to the OCD methodology, the Croatian market for professional services is at least 1/3 more regulated than the European average. The World Bank estimates the potential for growth in the productivity of the Croatian economy to about 5% if a certain level of reduction in excessive regulation is implemented. The European Commission's indicator of the restrictive nature of professions also shows that the Republic of Croatia has at least a 10% higher overall level of regulation of professions than the EU average. Furthermore, regarding the commitment made under the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the government is on 10 May 18th. adopt a strategy for the introduction of the EUR as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. Joining the European EREM2 Course Mechanism and the EU Banking Union is one of the steps that confirms the consistency of the implementation of reforms that contribute to economic growth and already shows positive results. The following recognized the need for mandatory membership in the Croatian Chamber of Architects, the Croatian Chamber of Engineering, the Chamber of Engineering Engineers, the Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineers for Construction Engineers or Work Managers to be replaced by an optional register in the chamber directory. Engineers of construction sites or workers according to the law governing construction are not involved in construction because they do not carry out these tasks professionally and economically independently, e.g. they do not buy construction material and no contract on construction has been signed, and therefore cannot take responsibility for the performance of the contract. Since engineers of construction sites or workers like all other performers are responsible only to the employer, and not to the investor, professional insurance is not needed, and in this context cannot even be talked about the need to edit this profession as a regulated profession. Also, the emphasis so far on the special benefits for chamber members in the form of favourable or free access to Croatian norm repositories is not a decisive factor for these two professions because it is generally known that they do not need more frequent access to norms. According to the Croatian Institute for Standards, the Croatian Standards repository uses only 22% of total chamber membership, and it is known which professions are required to regularly monitor norms, designers and supervisory engineers, and it is evident that they are not even more users of the said service. As indicated above, by equating the right to perform works of construction engineers or workers registered in the chamber and those not entered in the chamber, the professional name as well as its formal supplement authorised becomes unnecessary. The right to use a professional name is the right to be bound by applicable legal provisions by the law of the prescribed membership in the chamber. Therefore, the need for further enforcement of the right to an professional name will cease, and this right will be exercised through the fulfilment of the law of the prescribed conditions for the performance of the work for the benefit of all construction engineers or workers who are partially deregulationd i.e. This amendment corrects the excessive regulation introduced in 2015. Because until then construction engineers and workers were not mandatory members of the chamber. Therefore, the mechanisms which existed until 2015. remain in place with the additional possibility of membership if an individual engineer would have been able to do so in an opportune manner. These two engineering professions must continue to meet the same essential and legal requirements of professional and professional competence, and on the basis of these essential rather than formal administrative assumptions, they exercise the right to work. Furthermore, these legislative proposals are subject to the transposition of the provisions of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, and the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the Regulation on administrative cooperation through the information system of the internal market, the applicable law provides that in the first provision of services and requirements for the one-year exercise of professions over the past 10 years. the excluded applicants for the Member States whose profession is regulated but not the applicants from the Contracting State of the European Economic Area where education, professional training, training leading to that profession, is regulated, which is proposed by this law to be corrected. It is also not pointed out by the applicable law that the earlier verification of qualifications excludes the professions to which automatic recognition applies, and therefore this law also makes it more clear. The relevant law stipulates that experts involved in the activities of spatial planning and construction belong to the security sector and is therefore required of them at the time of the first provision of the service for impunity even though the Republic of Croatia does not require their own citizens to do so. The relevant law lays down a national requirement for insurance against professional liability in the event of temporary or occasional provision of services by a natural person in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, rather than providing the service provider with detailed information on any insurance or other means of personal or collective protection. It is not pointed out by the relevant law that a party may start providing its services immediately after a statement or delivery of complete documentation, and that the confirmation of the chamber is not an authorisation for the temporary or occasional provision of the service. Furthermore, the Chamber Act partially changes public powers and the framework of jurisdiction and a correction of expressions has been carried out in the part in which it has proved inadequate in the present application. The proposed laws therefore implement 3 essential elements, hence harmonisation, further compliance with the provisions of the Directive, reducing administrative barriers in the performance of operations in activity and spatial planning and construction and ensuring implementation of the action plan. In addition to the multiple benefits described, we note that the adoption of this law will not affect the reduction of the level of responsibility of professional persons and will ensure a certain administrative discharge in the performance of jobs and construction, and encourage chambers to raise professional responsibility. During a public debate in the preparation of this legislative proposal, the representatives of the engineering chambers expressed strong opposition using all available means, however, they failed to comment on their comments once. Such a reaction by the chamber representatives on the one hand is not surprising because it is a reform measure, and the reforms serve to regulate society and remove the anomalies that are obstacles to faster development, and to make the country more competitive in the international economic environment and more favourable to life for all and its citizens. On the other hand, as it is still about chambers that have their ethical codes, they surprise their unargumented loud protests against the proposed reform. As you know, the HS recently passed amendments to the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning, thus creating a more efficient, faster and cheaper system of issuing permits, and for the benefit of citizens and investors. These measures are already in place and we continue to develop both the digital system and additional red tape and parafiscal loads. This government therefore, responsible and intensively implemented reform direction for the prosperity of the Republic of Croatia and better tomorrow, all of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147182	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147183	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, we have read a lot about this law and the media these days about how many chambers are against this law-making. I realized, you're going to confirm or deny that this is just about the next one. That what was now mandatory, which is membership in the chamber, is now becoming voluntary. So, if an engineer or construction manager wants to continue to be entered into the chamber, it may be, but it is no longer an obligation, it is no longer a parafiscal imposition that must be respected, and that nothing reduces neither the quality nor the control of construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147184	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147185	Thank you very much for asking. So, just like you said. In these proposed amendments to the law, we try to make our engineers willing to recognize the benefits they might benefit from membership in the chamber, if they do not recognize them, if they do not benefit from membership they simply will not be members of the chamber because their work can also be done in the prescribed legal manner or competences they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147186	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147187	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State you said in your opening statement, which is also in the text, that you expect a discharge of about 10 million kuna per year, given that membership in the chamber is at a level of about 800 to 1,000 kuna, I wonder how you got to 10 million kuna per year that there will be a discharge. I suppose you've gone a little further, so it would be good to understand, because I don't understand how we got to 10 million kuna a year, so it would be good if you could explain to us how you came up with that information or that assumption, because it's hard for me to see that it's just a discharge whether it's a member of the chamber or not, but I guess some other resulting analysis has been made together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147188	Dear Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147189	Thank you very much. In the process, the chambers themselves showed how much this would mean for them in revenue, and we accepted it as a statement, and on the other hand, there is a different membership fee in each chamber, so the indicative price was said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147190	The next replica is the respected representative of Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147191	Thank you, Vice President. Here, I'll stick to the theme of my colleague, Dark Taritash. It is not clear to me how you, how you are acceptable to approach a part of the chamber, to give part of the current members of the chamber the opportunity to choose to be members or not, while others remain bound to do so. And while you're already talking about discharging the economy, I wonder why your party in office when we were in power together was against, say, mandatory membership fees for, in the Chamber of Commerce. Here, politically give me an answer I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147192	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147193	Thank you very much. So it's a democratic, democratic approach to our engineers that they themselves assess whether they want to be members of the chamber will also become a multiple effect to encourage our chambers to work more professionally and better with their engineers in order to interest them in being their members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147194	The next is a replica of the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147195	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, I'm wondering if anyone else, is one of those members of the membership chamber, who won't have to pay now, whether they were manifested through public debate and in what way. Because it's obvious that as soon as it's a matter of trouble or disdain for something when it comes to money, I'm wondering if it's solely the interest of certain groups it's one thing and another I'm interested in, you said in the introduction that the safety of construction means that part of the jurisdiction that the construction heads have, which are directly at that stage of construction, was it put into question by this question if someone is going to be a member of the chamber or if someone isn't going to be a member of the chamber?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147196	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147197	Only 10 persons who have had certain comments and suggestions on these legal solutions appeared in the prescribed, prescribed public discussion period of one month. Of that, one Law 3 which referred to the issue of membership in the chamber, and all other questions that are regulated by law, and the other Law 4 persons who have come forward. Others did not show such an interest in these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147198	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147199	Thank you, dear Vice President. I think it's very clear here that, and we follow government decisions at the beginning of this year on redundancy of the economy in general, both tax and parafiscal, it's something that we've been up to for years, and we can say in a certain way that we're correcting some of our mistakes here, and it's clear that if I can read this, the only ones who are against it are the ones who are the most benefit exactly the leaders of these chambers, or the chamber itself, and their members are not. And I think this is actually one good example and how we should keep working on all these regulated professions, namely we have them if I'm wrong about 300, the average is 200. So this is a good step, and surely when we start reforming that there are always those who will be against it and whose right it is being abolished, we must certainly be able to justify and remove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147200	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147201	Thank you very much. In these changes, the Ministry and the Government led, both traditional aspects and security aspects in the amendments to this law and, as was said in the introduction, one and the other aspects have been respected and there will be no change in tradition or security in that installation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147202	And the last replica is the respected representative of Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147203	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, although we really welcome every discharge administratively completely of our entire economy, especially in this section of construction, but let's say that now in these three chambers there is a membership in a way that voluntarily does not have to be mandatory members just to sign in to the chamber's directory, and you say that we are not questioning a reduction in quality or responsibility. And then why say here with a colleague as we talked, why designers and surveillance engineers must still be members of the chamber and in this way, does that matter and why would any of them be a member of the chamber if they didn't have to and had no advantage at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147204	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147205	Thank you very much for the really interesting question. So, after 20 years of the draft chamber being placed under increased work, it's a good question what you've asked, actually, what brings us membership in the chamber. The fundamental difference between these professions that remain mandatory and those who are on their good will is that those who will be chosen voluntarily in the chamber, they do not do their job on their own and are not responsible for their work, but the company does so, as it is known who the participants are in the building, is not the head of the construction site, but is the contractor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147206	Okay, will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will speak to the respected representative Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147207	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. Here we have a united discussion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. In December 2018, I will only remind myself that we voted and adopted the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, which has been implemented in accordance with the provisions governing and regulating the professional activities of spatial planning and construction with the 2005 Directive. The team has ensured the implementation of measures under the Action Plan in the field of regulation of professions in the Republic of Croatia, reduced administrative barriers in the performance of business and construction activities by particularly regulating the manager of less complex works with reduced special working experience in the past 10 to 5 years and legal persons may use a business-technical cooperation instrument for certain purposes and not necessarily have all the necessary expertise in the work relationship. We also voted then on the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, which was intended to ensure the implementation of the Government's conclusion, which was adopted in August 2018 on the reduced number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, commercial companies and other legal entities with public authority and which we plan to attach Croatian spatial development to the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning and that the tasks carried out by the Institute will be carried out by competent bodies within the Ministry with the date of start of 1.1.2019. These legislative changes continue to introduce order into the system and dissipate the economy from imposing which will increase competitiveness in construction and facilitate the profession of their work. The additional value of these amendments will be seen in more positions on Doing Business, which is the best indicator of the competitiveness of a country and often the main parameter for investors in the decision in which the country will invest its money. Amendments introduced to the construction engineer and the work manager shall be lifted from the obligation of membership in the chamber and the monetary burden resulting from this. Voluntary membership and normal follow-up to the same professional principles are allowed. Croatia today has 300 regulated professions and the EU on average 200. So if we want to be a competitive country, we need to implement reforms, and these amendments to the law are part of the government's reform plan. The purpose of amending the law is to administratively relieve professional business services, which is part of the current economic policy. It shall be implemented in accordance with the measures set out in the action plan for administrative redistribution of the economy in 2019 and the measure for the liberalisation of the market, services and the measure drawn up in the context of showing the intention of joining the ERM 2 European Course Mechanism. By subject administrative discharge, it is proposed to enroll in the chamber for about 5500 construction engineers and workers, which is a commitment of about 10 million kuna per year as we have heard to replace the optional entry into the chamber directory. This also corrects the excessive regulation introduced in 2015 because until then engineers of construction sites and workers were not compulsory members of the chamber. This enables voluntary membership and normal follow-up to their work under the same professional principles. The new legislative solution facilitates access to the profession as well as the European Economic Area market such as the freedom to provide services across borders, following which they come into a more market-friendly situation. They also improve their financial position because they do not pay annual membership fees and professional insurance they do not need because they are only responsible for the performer. The professional position of these professions remains the same, the free choice decides to enroll in the chamber and free access to the repositories of Croatian norms. It is worrying that according to the Croatian Bureau of Standards, the Croatian Standards repository uses only about 22% of the total chamber membership, so mainly designers and supervisory engineers. In addition to all of this, the conditions for the contractor remain regulated by law and the fulfilment of these conditions on the site is controlled by the supervisory engineer as was the case in 2015. Many say that professional works in construction cannot be carried out without professional examination but it is necessary to say that the expert examination is a condition for performing the following professional tasks, which are spatial planning, designing, professional supervision, construction and construction. However, it cannot be a condition for foreign experts from the European Economic Area who carry out these tasks on a temporary or occasional basis in the Republic of Croatia. It should be pointed out that the right of a foreign professional person to carry out a job on a temporary and occasional basis in the Republic of Croatia without having passed an expert examination does not exempt those persons from the strict responsibility and professional control and knowledge of national law of the Republic of Croatia. The two legislative proposals will be supported by all of the above and by the teaching on the basis of the proposal of the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147208	Thank you. The next club is that representative of GLAS and HSU on behalf of whom the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147209	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In our first reading, there are two amendments to the law, one is the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction and the second is the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. Since both laws define the same subject, or you have to change two laws, it was logical to have the debate united and I think it was the only right thing to do. We at the GLAS and HSU club will not support these two amendments, this time we will somehow manage another fact when you have parliamentary committees you have thematic parliamentary committees that are on a particular topic so that with these two laws it was also on the parent council committee that did not support them, neither one nor the other which signals us that there are a number of things that need to be improved and that need to be done. When do you make the laws? So you do the laws when you find out that in the sector you're dealing with you have a series of problems, and then you try to solve these problems, when you see that you have, so we have chambers of architects and chambers of engineers who participate in the design and construction process. When you see that there really comes some kind of imbalance and it's absolutely regular and acceptable to decide on administrative discharge. And let's say that it's decided and said we want to have our chambers created in a way that's free, someone wants to be a member of the chamber, someone won't be a member of the chamber, that it depends on all people, I'd say, OK, that's some new wind, some new story that's about it. I remember well when certain legal proposals were being made especially when Croatia became an EU member then on several occasions it was said not to be a stepmother to its people, let's not for people working in Croatia to be much bigger, to have more restrictions than some other countries have. At that time, I was very happy to use the example of Poland where there was only one leadership, I was talking about a study of architecture we had, or we had one in Split and now we have something in Osijek and something is happening in Rijeka, but with a relatively small number of people, then the leadership was incomparably more. And I said they're gonna end up coming to our market and our people are absolutely not gonna be competitive because these guys have some other ropes than we do and we need to take care of it. Now the situation is not like that, but whatever the situation is, we really need to know when you're passing certain laws why we're doing it. Do we work to say here and we have now made some fictitious administrative discharge and this 10 million kuna is not clear to me because it refers to 5.5 thousand people, these 5.5 thousand people will not be administrative if some of them decide to continue to be and if the annual membership fee of some and 1,000 kunas, I think it is very easy to calculate what amount it is. And I didn't get an explanation from the secretary of state, but I didn't expect to get it, so it doesn't surprise me. We've got designers in the process at all, we've got surveillance engineers, we've got performers. But the performer isn't much of an imaginary one. For this artist, someone does a job, the job is an engineer at a construction site or a construction manager. And no matter what public debate there was no objection to, very little objection to this law, all of us MPs only if they were misinformation we got that 2,000 engineers signed a petition and said why you're doing it, what you need, why leave it the way it is now. In the construction system you have designers that design, to simplify, you have performers that work and have supervisory engineering. When something happens, so when everything's okay, it's never a problem, but when something happens to you like it happened, and it was a picture that went all over Europe and the world that viaduct above Genoa and when the first one collapsed, the responsibility of a surveillance engineer goes down because he's responsible for it. And then behind that goes the responsibility of the performer and the same and responsibility of someone who ran some business in that performance. So as long as it doesn't happen, it's all right. So here you should have carefully decided why exactly those who are building, why exactly they decided, and somehow in the memos that you probably got, all the clubs got, so I guess there was, says there was no cooperation between the resolution ministry, between the chambers. I always think we should talk, no matter how much we talk, everyone can go their separate ways, but it's not good not to talk, and it's actually introducing some kind of uncertainty. And I don't get it, so if 2,000 people signed and said don't do it, why would they do it? It worked to make the law? It's been working to make a regulation, which is what this is for you who, I think. I have to admit, I really don't understand why we decided to do this. The more there is another provision, which is that all those who are members of the chamber, insurance against professional responsibility for their members pay the chambers, which was convenient for everyone because you get a policy that actually serves the investor. Always, which is the point, is to protect the investor, the point is to protect the investment, the purpose of the law to ensure that all those involved in the construction process protect themselves from being a protected investor. I'd still have to admit that, if it had decided to do this, that it had decided to do something about the project's leaders, but see wonders, the project leaders remained. So let's say, in accordance with the provisions, I'll read what we got from the observations, says a project to build municipal infrastructure and drain water on the island of Krk is worth 511 million kuna, for the project manager goes 8 million kuna. Then says the agglomeration project Varazdin amounted to 684 million kuna, the project manager is, will receive 6.9 million kuna. Then agglomeration of the River 1.7 billion, project manager 23 million, agglomeration of Umag 530 million kuna, project manager 7.8 million kuna. And now that you're these, the millions that the project leaders are going to get just add up for these four projects, you're very simply coming up with one 50 million kuna. So why didn't it decide and say in the process, we don't need project leaders anymore. That moment we have a reduction of parafiscal loads, that moment we have a release, that hour, if only on these four projects we will release everything together. What's a parafiscal concoction? This is something that you impose on the investor in some process that is not regulated by other ways. The parafiscal inducement is, to me it's a good example, because we watched once when parafiscal charges related to gas stations, I always say, let's say all gas stations must have a once-a-year visual inspection of the fuel tank. Fuel tanks are underground. I haven't been able to figure it out, maybe I'm a little too painted on blue, so that's the reason, but I've never been able to figure out what someone in the visual examination of the fuel tank, which everyone's buried and you just have to look outside the shaft, but it's an obligation for every gas station and that obligation costs. So it's a parafiscal load. If the ministry had decided about the work of the chambers, about the jobs that are in the design and construction process, to see everything that is a burden on the investor, which is a burden on investment, to write them down, and then they said this is the set we decided on, and that's where we're going to move them, I'd say okay, you're pretty brave, the question is whether we're ready for it, but here's a new policy, and that's what you've decided. But no, only one profession has decided to tell the engineers of the construction site, or the builders of the works, as you will, and these others, that even until the last drop of blood, we protect the project leaders because it's extremely important to us, but we don't care who's going to work for us. When changing the regulation, especially when it comes to construction, we need to be a little more careful than we do, you must always have some limitations and a little more careful. Is there a house beautiful or ugly? Change the facade or someone's pretty or someone's ugly. Is it the planer's decision, now that you can see it in space as I absolutely think it is determined that our highways are therefore Zagreb – Split, excellently routed highways which have added added value to the space. So, it could be some wrong decisions like our mayor Bandic decided to turn the pituitary into skyscrapers and as he had a long time fetish they were his fountains, and now he decided that his fetish was skyscrapers. But when someone does it wrongly in the building, it's only enough to be lucky in this earthquake zone, we haven't had any big situations like that, and that's good. That says something, says we have good colleges, well-educated people I'm talking about at this point about this high school, that we have good colleges, that we have good construction firms. I said on purpose in the past tense, the good construction companies that did it, that we had good regulations that were regulated by all the security conditions. If we've decided to give it all up, then we should make it clear, but it should be the same for everyone. Don't do this, the people who are members of the chamber who do this, say don't do this to us, why you've made up your mind, what it is that we are. In conclusion, we won't support it at the club, we won't support it because we don't see any reason why it went into this except to formally say that parafiscal intrusions are lifted, and basically it won't be because today a construction manager is a member of the chamber then gets his insurance policy and it's some security for his investor, and in the future someone will be able to be, someone won't be everything else. So that's where we're going to do we try to introduce order, now instead of that order we're going to introduce a mess, but let's take a look at the whole area. You're letting us see what's going on with these project leaders, why they're staying with us with such large amounts. Imagine coming in front of this, to this tall home, and at some point you say we've given up the project manager, and we're taking off parafiscal duties for a billion. That would be a nice move, but we certainly won't see that move. Otherwise, our committees, as we all know, are drawn up the way the Parliament is. So on committees you always have a relationship between the ruling and the opposition and the relationship on committees and it's interesting that on the parent board where such a relationship is not passed, which says something about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147210	Thank you. He will now speak on behalf of the club of representatives, respected representative Vedran Babic, and will share the time with the respected representative Vinko Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147211	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is as counterpart Mrak Taritash found, on the parent board of these two legislative proposals, meaning the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction and the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Arrangements were simply not accepted on the Committee and failed because they were for both streams, 5, 5 votes were for, 3 abstentions and 2 against, and thus was also sent a message to this legislative proposal which is at least here we can say double, ishitren in all these arguments that we have heard so far, and even with the promoter is simply illogical, discriminating for certain members. We, like, all the club representatives also got a doips from all four chambers in which it is visible that there have been many failures and that it is easy to see that there is less and less and less hearing and good communication between the professional chambers and the ministry, which I think is a very, very bad message and for all the new legislative proposals that come to us on this topic. And I think the ministry just does it wrong every year and we just don't see any positive shifts. Citing the dispensation under the dispensation of parafiscal duties of the economy, administrative duties or whatever they would call it, abolishing the obligation of membership of payment, the obligation of membership in the chamber for part of the participants in the construction is absurd in itself. This more if you have any knowledge of the whole process, i.e. the process from designing to using permission to put the builder even in this situation in a subordinate position relative to the designer's supervision and not to list further is almost unserious, inconclusive because it shows that you simply don't understand construction, you don't understand what situations the most mistakes occur in. The biggest mistake is in the human factor, in the human, when in the human factor are the biggest problems and the greatest hawari happen then. They're not regular, they're not so much in the project itself, they're doing it. And now you're transferring it to the company. I can answer the same, and even when the design is negotiated, you don't negotiate with the architect, you deal with the firm, then why didn't you remove the architects, the statisticians, etc., from the chamber? It's just that from month to month every legal proposal you make hasn't gone too far. I asked you why when you had the opportunity to fight to end it, to be a voluntary member of the Chamber of Commerce, you didn't answer it, and you always choose which question you're going to answer, which you won't, and that's how it's over every time you come here. I'm sorry that, even now, you're singleing out construction leaders and I can also find out if the building leaders are going on hand because it's as if we're discharging them, remember just how much it is, that the construction process itself has accumulated. It means that on the income side, it's the easiest thing to pay them. Or those companies where the contractors do the work. You know for sure, look at all those tenders you're funding through your ministry and see for the million kunas you've been doing on the project now that five years ago. Disperse only part and approach, and this is selective at least inconclusive and doubtful. You also have an opinion, we have been given the opinion of a member, the Judges of the Constitutional Court, who is also critical of this legislative proposal. It would be good to read it, to think about what is a chamber, which is an association, and thus to approach the writing of any other legislative proposal. Not to hit on this one all the time, which is what we're talking about the most. I will also remind myself that at the meeting of the parent committee, it was also discussed that, by accepting that EU directives are being adopted and that EU designers are also allowed to work on spatial plans on board is also generally negatively accepted for the very reason why colleagues who are dealing with spatial planning have not been doing much work lately, so here I call on you to think about it a little bit. Here's to not debting my colleague Grgic will continue and the SDP will not support this first bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147212	Thank you. A respected representative, Vinko Grgic, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147213	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I will begin with a quote from a public debate where the company of construction engineers says that one of the biggest problems of the Croatian economy has been the change of laws that directly affects the legal uncertainty of business entities. The purpose of each law, the new law, is of course optimization and simplification of the previous one. As regards the proposal of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Chamber of Architects, Engineers, etc. I'd say that we can detect it or see it around, divide it somehow into 4 segments, which leads to certain changes as such. The first part that regulates the work of the chamber, its bodies, where jobs are established, chambers, all in order to level the work of the chamber. As regards the second point, i.e. the second part, it is more about the quantitative reduction of the existing law, which already comes from 61 items or articles, and it is also about the correction of certain items in the form of not listing members of the chamber, architects, builders, etc., only the members of the chamber are mentioned. What is third, which is very important to me and, ultimately, has upset the public, the professional public, which is part of which concerns authorised construction leaders and workers who, in accordance with the measure, I stress from the action plan for administrative redundancy of the economy in 2019, compulsory membership in the chamber is replaced by optional enrolment in the directory of chambers. By 2015, construction engineers were, there were a lot of riots in that, there were a lot of problems, and then the chamber opened up, opened their hands, and about 5 and a half thousand engineers went into the chamber and became members of that chamber with all the rights they had, which is personal security from professional responsibility, legal and professional assistance and necessary consulting, of course, information across the pages, via web pages, through e-mails about all new laws. First of all, that's where the problem opens up. The issue of insurance against professional liability which is much more favourable than when contracting individual insurance. What does that mean? Those 5.5 thousand people who gave membership fees, I think that 1800 kn is payable in two wars per 900 over the year, they had insurance policy for their work covered up to some million kunas. If it's more associates, it's up to 3 million kuna. To be honest, that shelf isn't what we all wanted, because it's about 15 grand of all the members of the chamber that get that policy and ultimately have certain rights to it. Now, regardless of the quality of this existing policy, we have a situation that these 5.5 thousand people who will no longer be members of the chamber will have certain problems, which is how to protect their work, or their professional responsibility, because the value of these policies will no longer be the one taken on the basis of 15 thousand people. It'll be individual. And the chamber is based on that day's first assessment. In fact, there was a public record that so far the 1,840,000 kunas that have gone to these shelves came to a value of 101 million kuna. So 55 times bigger. Now, what's going on here? The problem is, someone's going to be looking forward to, of course, insurance houses that open all over the door to people. But the problem is the biggest one, someone has to pay for it, right? It's left to engineers, it's left to company owners or most likely investors. So we come up with a big and high cost that's a question of how they're going to reflect on society. The second is, the heavy control of the building participants. So so far, people who were members of the chamber have been legitimateized with their ID, stamp, if you would like to check, you have entered their number and have come very easily to the situation that, to see that the members of the chamber are not punished and are actively working. However, now that the supervisor is checking it out, it will be, or should be seen how it will be done. Whether, as a member of the chamber has to pass a professional exam, he must have a satisfactory school, he must have 3-5 years of training, whether the documentation will be carried on each construction site and shown. And now I'm going back to that question, that is, the story of the action plan for administrative discharge. That's a big question, are we coming up with a discharge? Secondly, the rights and obligations entered in the register of the chamber are not listed anywhere in relation to those who have not entered them. Their professional work and professional training will not be supervised, unlike so far. It's an interesting situation, if you stay in the chamber and you're severely punished, you can get a certain period of time to get a labour ban. Those people, those builders, but also construction heads who are not members of it, they will not be punished. Or whoever's a member gets punished and says, "I'm no longer a member, I'm leaving independently." It's a question of how it's going to be regulated. I'm very interested in it. And finally, on the one hand, we have an administrative discharge, and on the other hand there is no new administrative burden that could, in which it could be multiple more and that stems practically from these things. What's the fourth part that I've detected as a very important change, and that's a solidarity responsibility. It's about an existing article. No. 57th and the new one that's going to be 33rd. Namely, 3 items are, the first remains, namely, the word is if you are an authorised architect, designer, urbanist, etc., and if you have a joint office, you and equally mean you are responsible for certain failures within your house. That stays. However, you have one news. If a legal person is registered for design, who employs designers, who are authorised designers and members of the chamber, the situation so far has been that they are equally responding. Both the owners, both the company, as a legal person, and these individual designers who re-consume their insurance policy. Also, the 3rd paragraph applied to performers because their construction heads and construction heads were also equally and solidly responsible for certain errors. The Proposer casts paragraphs 2 and 3, I have to say that it's a little strange to us, given that it's usually a company, I'm not going to tell the family companies, but companies where they operate on the basis of partnership, cooperation and ultimately trust. The people who will work in these companies will be kind of upset. What does that mean at last? So any mistake will have to be taken over by someone else, and it's a company or a company owner. So I'd like to conclude that, uh, investor opportunities are shrinking to realise their claims in the event of damage. Because by now you could have sued not only the company but the designer, today the designer is abolished. However, the solidarity of several persons in similar cases is provided for by a number of regulations in the Republic of Croatia such as the Maritime Law, the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport, the Law on Lawyership, etc. So the question is, why does this matter want to be regulated differently? In addition, under the general rules of civil law, the Law on Mandatory Relations and under the Labour Act there is the responsibility of the employee to the employer for the damage he has done to him in carrying out his work duties on purpose or out of extreme negligence. Therefore, it narrows down the possibility for the investor to, to collect his claim but remains the possibility of the employer to make a revolving claim against the employee who has done the damage and the question of justification of the proposed provision to the law is raised. In the process of public debate, e-consultation means one of the complaints of refusal with an explanation that reduces excessive regulation for a profession that does not carry out professionally and therefore cannot assume responsibility for fulfilling the contract and is solely responsible to the employer and not to the investor, and will ultimately result in one discrepancies between the cooperation and trust between the owners of the firm and their employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147214	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS and time will be shared by the respected representative Bernarda Topolko and Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147215	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state, respected assistant ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing two draft laws, a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. For both laws, first reading. As regards the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, it should be pointed out that this law goes towards amending laws which are necessary not only for the implementation of an action plan for administrative redistribution of the economy from 2019 but also for the further arrangement of the area of professional affairs, spatial planning and construction, as well as for foreign persons performing the tasks and activities of spatial planning and construction in the Republic of Croatia. According to the action plan, high levels of administrative burdens are one of the main obstacles to the implementation of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. So the purpose of adopting this law is the administrative dispensation of professional business services. In line with the measures set out in the action plan, mandatory membership is required in the Croatian Chamber of Architects, the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Engineering, the Croatian Chamber of Engineering Engineers and the Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineering for Construction Engineers or Work Managers are replaced by an optional entry into the chamber directory. As regards the implementation of the action plan for administrative redistribution of the economy for 2019, the suspension or simplification of administrative processes and obligations resulting in financial savings and the reduction of burdens on the part of the economy and particularly on the professions of construction engineers and workers. The law harmonises provisions governing the performance of spatial planning and construction professional activities with two directives on the recognition of spatial planning and construction and services and those on the internal market for the purpose of facilitating access to the single market for European economic space. Our market is also interesting for other builders, i.e. construction companies in the EU area, but also vice versa. We need free access to the economic operator market and, on the other hand, the necessity to achieve public interest. But without further ado, what we need to take care of and what we need to have is quality. The aim of this law is to regulate the conditions for performing spatial planning and construction activities and to ensure the right to provide services and the right of business established by Croatian economic operators and individuals within the European Economic Area in accordance with the rules for the cross-border provision of services and for the recognition of foreign qualifications. Foreign engineers of construction sites and workers from a Contracting State of the European Economic Area in which there is no mandatory membership in the chamber can already cross-borderly carry out construction operations in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the conditions they meet in their country. That's where we don't have the national influence. This is regulated by the proposed legislative amendments to both legislative proposals. What is crucial is that, it will not affect the reduction of the level of responsibility of professionals. The relevant provisions of the law have not properly transposed the provisions of the two Directives mentioned and this is corrected by this law. With regard to the part of the provisions, the law in force which is prescribed to carry out professional activities is considered non-economic activity of general interest to be deleted. The conditions for the supply of data by an authorised natural person from the Contracting State of the European Economic Area shall also be prescribed to the appropriate chamber prior to the start of the occasional or occasional operation of spatial planning, design and professional supervision of the building of the responsible person. It shall also be prescribed to carry out the procedure for checking the foreign professional qualification in the submission of the first statement by the professional party and to ensure that the exemption is made from such verification by architects concerned with the autonomous recognition of professional qualifications. The certificate is no longer required to wait, but services can be provided immediately after the declaration of the chamber with the delivery of all the necessary documentation. All this shows that this legislative proposal reduces administrative barriers in the performance of spatial planning and construction activities and facilitates access to the European Economic Area market on cross-border provision of services. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, the purpose of the adoption of this Act but as far as we have heard and both of these laws is the administrative discharge of professional business services in line with the amendments made to the Action Plan for Administrative Discharge of the Economy. Therefore mandatory membership in the Croatian Chamber of Architects, the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Construction, the Chamber of Engineers of Engineering and Chambers Engineers of Electrical Engineering, for builders of construction sites and workers, should be replaced by optional enrolment in the chamber directory. The measure represents only a continuation of the objective which is to introduce order into the system and remove parafiscal burdens and these memberships are exactly that. It should also be pointed out that this measure and opportunity to professional chambers to raise the level of quality of their services provided to their members. This is also an opportunity to motivate potential members to join, these amendments to the law allow voluntary membership and normal work under the same professional principles and responsibility. So what is most important, the adoption of this law will not affect the reduction of the level of responsibility. I'll leave my colleagues to Curai, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147216	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. ... Here, I'm sorry, I forgot that you've shared the time, of course, here you go, colleague Curaj. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147217	Thank you... The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, an associate, co-worker and colleague, I will briefly simplify this by making it as simple as anyone who is not from this profession, but someone who has seen it this way, has no personal or any kind of relationship, interests, or political problems regarding the proposing himself or what it brings from the HNS Ministry itself, the word is very simple, we remove one imposition that the vast majority of employers paid for their employees, I cannot accept right away to say the argument in which it is said, so now construction has recovered, so I can pay for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, they better pay that money more to the workers so that the workers have a higher salary, I can't think of it, especially when it comes from the SDP, it's absolutely not clear to me, so don't pay the workers, but let's go pay the chamber. And for what it's worth, people will keep paying. It's just that we all here today the speakers who spoke know this isn't worth the money. And that the question of survival might be that chamber. And that's why everyone got mixed up somehow, I don't know what the interests are. I'm assuming you went into arguments, you didn't support then the suspension of mandatory membership in the Chamber of Commerce, so we're not going to do this to you. Watch out, that's one roof. This is Czech. Or go and watch her now, the clear ometic has given some interpretation, I suppose, which she was also ordered to do, in which she fenced herself and watch how now. He says, "Professor." The restriction, therefore, is no longer a member of the Constitutional Court, the legal system of judges, is not allowed in any way to bring about the outcome of any constitutional, judicial, administrative or other legal proceedings, etc., etc. In which chambers and in any legal relationship are involved, it is specifically fenced and then listed, not accepting this because others are not here today, and then we won't accept it. What's that, or all or nothing, there's no individual, there's no gradual, but we're going to cut it so we can make it happen. We should probably have abolished the obligation of membership and architects, if that's what Mrs. Anke the Dark Taritate, I presume. Or maybe it wasn't accepted on the board because the vote was 5-5 because two members of the position didn't come, and then maybe that's the most valid reason why they won't accept something. In 2000, a petition signed, a petition to which the minister must react because he requested the erasure of incorrect allegations. It has been observed that the chamber, in its invitation to petition its members against amending the rules, clarifies incorrect data relating to the membership of authorised construction heads, etc. And then they haven't even collected half of their own to sign, and now that's some argument. I'm surprised for the fellow GLAS colleagues we've been together and together we are, we belong to a liberal option, which has always spoken loudly, so harshly about reducing the role of the state, liberalization, especially as far as tax duties are concerned, that now this is very important. Or there are some reasons for that because it was 5-5 on the board. Or because the other chambers may not be advanced, so neither, or because that chamber says it has 10 million kuna income, so we put it in the material, but it's like it's not exactly five and a half thousand times, five and a half million times, and then again we're surprised at the SDP that says not the money given to the worker, but give the money to the chamber, because you didn't get us through the knee like that from the sky into the ribs on the proposal of an esteemed colleague Maras to abolish mandatory membership in HGK, skip hundreds of Czech under the association, and immediately bring everything down from above to the tower of cards, and that's what I said at the beginning, as the greatest layman, what people will pay. Complementary health insurance isn't mandatory, do they pay people? They pay if they see their benefits here, what's the difference here? Well, probably because someone thinks it's possible and it's a mea cult if we're talking about HNS is it during our term together and it's done and it's seen that it's not good, and it's the first one that's going to say on behalf of the party, so maybe we're wrong, we're going to fix our mistakes, not be petty, not be petty people, who are doing this and wrong, I guess, no matter who was then, but such arguments and get into something that's the subject of the law, but it's not the subject of these changes either, it absolutely doesn't make any sense. Finally, we're shrinking, and tomorrow the same people will come and see you there on the Doing Business scale you've fallen into the not-know-what place, you're fine with nothing, you've got parafiscal burdens, then when you're going to do some reforms, there aren't any, there aren't any here, be careful not to reduce parafiscal burdens, so maybe it's not 10 care is 7 million, so 7 can pay, why would someone give a warm meal to their worker, better let him pay the chamber, God save it. I think something like that that I'm expecting will generally be accepted, because like everyone else here we swear on, in a million debates are looking for some of these reasons, I see the only reason that what comes from HNS is probably, even if it's the best if it's not right. This may be the only reason that I can read here, please, petty political or not know what interests or this, so that someone doesn't accidentally say something sees what to do through their mouths or better that we're not in the assembly, so I won't even come to vote or anything just so it doesn't vote something that we all see is good, but that's what we're going to do for someone, you're not going to give anyone the right to what's there, just doing what might not have to be in the beginning or just helping out and doing a little step maybe, not too big, but with this we really want to encourage the rest of the ministries to get involved and to go into a more serious discharge of parafiscal duties, because the excuses don't work any more, so we won't even this, we can't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147218	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, we will be told by the Honorable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Željko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147219	Thank you very much. Well, I answered the word after these club presentations because I noticed that those who generally objected to such legal decisions were architects, and on this side surprised me that they either did not read the law well or did not have time or understood it, but then it was even worse if they did not understand, especially since the former minister had shown full rhetoric of our chambers which, of course, had the interest of 10 million kunas to object to such legal decisions that she had made possible at the time and it would be interesting to hear what were at the time the reasons that these 5,000 people were forced into the chambers and to pay for the impose when Mrs. Taritash cites the example from Genoa and the bridge that collapsed, and we all know at least who we are dealing with, that this investigation is still ongoing and that it is directed towards a concessionary or towards a freeway, and not towards a contractor, nor according to the head of the construction site, means a completely unargumented debate. The same argument of benefits and chambers, 2,000 people signed a subsequent petition that did not take part in the public debate, that they did, but the question is what they were reporting and the ministry reacted and asked the chamber to take down the pamphlet that had been placed on its pages with incorrect data. Therefore, it should again be recalled who the participants are in the construction according to the Construction Act, counterpart Babić does not know that the head of the construction site is not involved in the construction under the Construction Act, that is the company, the contractor. counterpart Grgić, further membership fee himself says that 1.800,00 kn per year, Mrak-Taritash is wondering if they are 800,00 or are 1,000,00 colleagues has denied 1.800,00. High insurance costs that could arise for people who leave the chamber at their own free will, so if they find interest in not being members of the chamber, then they will obviously put into balance what the chamber gives them and what they would have to pay for themselves, but from those earlier views that the construction heads or construction engineers and workers are not involved in the construction, there is no need to be secured because their responsibility takes over the company that performs the works and signs the contracts. As for the insurance costs of individual, not group members, it is also questionable and we have discussed this on the board, what such insurance offers to the individual, we have seen contracts by which insurance companies do not provide chamber members if they do not work by design, if they do not work by law, if they do not comply with the rules of the profession, so from what do they provide such favourable insurance? They're severely punished if they're members, and what if they're not? Well, that's exactly what chambers don't do. Does anyone know, has anyone heard, especially colleagues from the profession, that someone's ever been in these 20s. A license taken? So there's no continual punishment by the chamber. Solidarity responsibility problemed, and it was resolved through other laws and it was also explained already in the debate, so the Law on Jobs and Activities, Art. The 22nd century 3 is a new addition, so look also at Article 3 that has been abolished in this law, and in the Construction Act Art. 55th is elaborately elaborated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147220	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147221	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here you have said yourself that on the board there have been words related to insurance, or payment secured differently if it goes on its own or if it goes... Just tell me, have you ever done a simulation, what is the difference or offer of insurance companies if members mean members of chambers or if they're just going to be a register? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147222	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147223	Thank you very much. We've been asking around how much insurance they are and of course they're insurance, if they're working on thousands more favourably. But it's just a question, of those thousands as much as it's agreed, which they contain, I just said they contain nothing, so they're just about to cost 1 kn, if they don't cover you, it's completely meaningless.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147224	The next replica is the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147225	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State. It's obviously the money that's slow. Someone will run out of money, someone expects something to profit from it, however, looking at the position of investors, I don't care who's the head of the construction site, the head of the work. I'm interested in the company, the legal person and the person with whom the contract is concluded. I'm interested in a surveillance engineer, and if the project is worth it, I hire the project manager myself. Who's gonna run the construction site, the works, so why do I care? But it's extremely important that the employer, the company, takes care of it because it bears responsibility. If something isn't done and she's in her best interests and she thinks she has to be that member of the chamber, so let her pay him, she can join him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147226	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147227	Thank you very much for these words. Of course, that's what this is about, so it's about assessing the opportunities of the engineers themselves, whether they're going to be members of the chamber or not. If membership in the chamber gives them nothing, then why would they be members of the chamber? If it provides them with protection, if it provides them with a quality of service to keep them competitive on the market, they will still be members of the chamber. But right now, the situation is such that it just doesn't make a difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147228	Thank you very much. We move on to an individual debate and will be the first to have a respected representative, Nika Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let's get out of the way because this is an extremely narrowly specialized area so come to our local at the level of local administration that I come from, and we have the biggest problem of public procurement. Where it is very often we hire top consultants to get through this public procurement as much as possible, as painlessly as possible. These people who run that story really look, not every word, but every point. These people who control expertise were administrators, who were basically people who kept the story in a way that they were usually other professions than construction professions, that they were lawyers, that they were economists. That these are people who have been educated by the U.S.S.S.S., but they've had good control so far, and I believe and in the future, people's expertise because if you get the wrong assessment, you get the big competition going. You know what that means, for the next six months you can't start certain investments that's the first, and second, and if you get some co-financing from the state funds, the ministry and everything else, then you have a problem that this will go on for a further period and if you get that money, it becomes questionable. For this reason, I say that we care very much about this very public tender and public procurement. However, we are coming up with one fact that precisely because of this, we have here a chamber of one that has been checking the expertise, which has been checking the diplomas, which has been checking the work internship, which has been checking the expert exam, all of which has been archived with them, and even punishment, whether the man has been punished, has not been punished, etc. And based on that, people who controlled the quality of the expertise of people who were written to represent one company that won that contest, they were very simply getting this kind of confirmation, here. If a man were a member of the chamber, had these and those schools, had not been punished and the people who were in the administration, they just put it on, they put the cross on and we move on. What happens now? How will these people control the expertise of the building manager, the construction manager, especially if these people come from abroad, from the EU? In what way? That's the question, here. And then that, that starting point in, which is the moment of the main moment of this whole law and which are in the public debate everywhere as promoted in response to the ministry is in line with the measures of the action plan for administrative redundancy of the economy in 2019. It might not be anything, it might be great, but trust me, public procurement will show the real results of that. We don't enter whether they have to be chamber members or not, but this document is unique, legal, you check it very quickly, by phone call or by one click on the website, and a bundle of paper we're going to get, I believe there's going to be a problem. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147230	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147231	Thank you, dear Vice President. So let's say a brief sublimation of things I may not have mentioned yet. In fact, I also said in the replica that this is the beginning or actually something that we brought in, I think, on January 3rd, this government as a programme, a reform package, a redundancy of the economy and the abolition of parafiscal burdens, and this is the first of them. We have sent this as part of preparations for the euro, i.e. meeting certain conditions of the European Course Mechanism, and I hope that in the autumn we will get other proposals for other discharges to meet the plan. A plan that we have repeatedly announced that at least as far as ministries, education and construction are concerned, or, if we talk about withdrawing funds, it's bigger than planned. And that's something that we certainly owe our citizens, we owe them the result, we owe them that they feel the discharge, not that we're telling them, and then we'll know that we did a good job, and this is certainly a small part, but an important part in that segment. One wheel that certainly those 5.5 thousand people will feel, those companies will feel. Less or more, they will be able to make use of these funds if they decide not to pay for their workers by increasing certain or giving workers or working conditions or whatever they demand on the market. And that is, in fact, all the sense of such things, that all that is not necessary, all that is our own purpose, and unfortunately we are masters here when we talk about Croatia in inventing certain and warm water, as the people would say, but also certain regulations that eventually double, accumulate, one body sends you to another for the same thing, there is always one paper missing, etc. And I think we're on a good track when we're looking at certain legal changes that were just once and for all to stop being such a state-of-the-art case where there's always going to be one piece of paper and there's always going to have to be something to pay for, because imagine, cancel the tags, but through the system of e-citizens, there's no recognition of the mark, and then we still have to buy it somehow or so on, etc. So, for things that one body should absolutely have all the particulars and that's the meaning of this decommissioning, these reasons why I can't accept, I haven't heard any valid reason as to the particulars of this imposition, and I hope that by the second reading it will be possible that something bad or that it wants better, I would hear suggestions here, constructively, as well as not that sentence, perhaps some other, not so, perhaps something in the transitional provisions, we haven't heard at all. No constructive proposal. It's just that you're not something to us at the time, some of you were against, I don't know if anyone still has any personal interests or any fees or I don't know what, but I haven't heard any constructive suggestions except that you don't need it because everything I've said before. We'll see on the second reading whether there might be an amendment, but I don't know what they're going to put in that section of the first-reading proposal about just one single thing, a release from the charge. Has anyone said less, 50%, conditionally, any meaningful suggestion worth considering? It's not. It's not. I guess that's what you should stay for, I don't know what reason. These reasons don't stand up to me. And the very thing is simple, according to the Construction Act, they're not responsible. As far as insurance is concerned, they can always arrange those shelves. Whether they will be smaller, greater, whether they will be worth it, so that people will see it, and they will be calculated on their own. No one's stupid. Our people aren't stupid. What's worth, they'll take. It's like we're saying now that we have a situation where we have to have extra insurance, so we want to liberalize it and say no, then someone's gonna come and say no, no, they can't, so it protects people, I don't know what. Everyone sees in their example whether he needs something, whether it's worth it or not. And that's the point, so the right of an individual to make decisions, and that's what we're protecting here, that's basic, so we can say, liberal principles, which is why I'm really wondering why it's being perceived, at least by liberal colleagues, because I can't believe that today when we all talk, we need smaller taxes, less taxes, anything, we're defending something that doesn't have a direct link, so let's say, when we say, we need it for providing public protection, health, cops, firefighters, any other systems, we can't do that because it's being funded, we know where these money is going. We don't know where those money's going, I've heard somewhere that they even have in that chamber, I don't know, 10 million kunas on the bill, that they don't know what to do with that money and then now that... We're having some discussion, I don't know why. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think this is something that should have been accepted in general. I expected a more or less debate to go that way, and this was rather embarrassing, but good. Until the second reading I hope to see and to come up with some perhaps constructive proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147232	Thank you. We have two replicas. She's the first respected representative, Bernard Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147233	Thank you. Dear colleague. I have the impression that the main problem in these opposition laws is to open the market or adapt the EU market, where their designers and their architects can come to our area. From what we can read on board and from these discussions, it's obviously the main problem. Competition in our area, and we're not thinking about our people working outside, and that a lot of our construction companies are working outside, and that they're allowed to work outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147234	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147235	Yes, possibly because this really increases the competitiveness of our builders themselves, certainly as far as the price is concerned. Well, unfortunately, I think the point is why the opposition is against because it might be a position, but what's even more, which I said, because it's by the CNS and God didn't let us support anything that comes here on a proposal from the CNS, then maybe we'll give them the right, imagine, that they saved the state not only from new choices and all that, but also something good they're doing, so we can't, even if they were against the biggest nonsense. Thank you. ... Good stuff. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147236	The next replica is the respected representatives of Nada Turine-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147237	Dear colleague. I will refer only to the part where you referred in your debate to the liberal views of the party whose I am now a member and that you do not understand that the Liberal Party can represent such views. The point of liberalism is not that everyone can do what they want and whenever they want, and especially with regard to the institutions that, in this case, the chambers that have been significant in a certain sense for a longer period of time, especially for the professions that this is about, and it is a little strange that the committees which are parent or interested committees have not fully supported these laws, or that you do not have the support of your coalition partners to pass the laws, something has happened here. In fact, it's very strange that committees don't support the proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147238	Dear Representative Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147239	Thank you. Here I will remember your argument when it's this.../incomprehensible/... so not everyone can do what they want and whenever they want. And then I would like to publicly and rebuke my colleagues from HDZ who did not come to the board because because of you that you did not support GLAS will not support, because they are following what you are doing and they are heartily supporting what their HDZ colleagues are doing, because if they were present at the session, it would probably be most of them, and therefore they would also have the support of a colleague from GLAS because they measure in you, not by what they themselves are, the things themselves and the things that are being discussed. So, I just said it on purpose because when you say something all the time you're declaring it, and then because of some maybe individual particular interests, you're not consistent, and you like to tell others how someone's positioning is that the meaning of it all. So sometimes we can't and always follow all the principles, but there must have been a chance here that we could.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147240	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147241	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, listening to the debate, turns out that this law removes chambers, which are tangled by construction, both by spatial and architects and builders, etc., that is simply not so. In fact, I'm going to try to look at this debate and these changes to the law from the position of investors. From the local level as mayor I signed a series of contracts, a series of contracts still waiting for me, a series of situations I've been looking and looking at, and nowhere in this document does it say that the responsible person is the builder, the construction manager, he's gone. A contract is signed with a company, with a natural person, with a legal person. So the investor, the performer, the manager of the work, is somewhere in between. Whose responsibility is he? Reading comments from the HUP that surprise me, but their interest is also evident, says the responsibility of the authorised construction leaders and authorised labour leaders will be resolved in the most favourable financial way if they are members of the chamber. I'm an investor, so I don't care. So, the public procurement of colleagues, the public procurement of what you're saying doesn't matter that there's no need for public procurement. So, procurement is concluded with a company, with a natural person, its references can and must be prescribed through public procurement, but it is not the responsibility of carrying out jobs. So there's another list that talks about the company's references, no matter who's the construction manager, it doesn't matter. Now, insurance against professional responsibility means I can conclude that a company that has a construction manager wants to exculpate or secure itself from professional responsibility or the irresponsibleness of its employee's work manager or worker. So to me, literally, I have to tell you what I care about, it's your job, your responsibility, your problem that you're showing the foundations of the offered price. The great law does not abolish either the chamber, nor the membership, it is voluntary and first when I read the letter of the HUP then it became clear to me afterwards. Gentlemen, owners of companies, natural persons, builders, if you estimate, estimate that you benefit more from membership in the chamber, pay your employees to workers of works or construction sites or, however, pay for their membership, pay for their insurance because the fact is that certain companies or natural persons did not pay for it to their employees, but they transferred responsibility to them, and it is not responsibility on them. First and foremost, it means project documentation that lye is from an idea, main project, project implementation, so it's the responsibility of the designer. Surveillance as an investor is my choice of supervision, so is his responsibility. The builder of the site should be responsible, so why, through the project, through the implementation project, he writes exactly from the brand of concrete, of the weight or thickness of the iron armature blah, blah, blah, everything. He just needs to read, read and do it like that. What my colleague Bernarda mentioned, yes, exactly. The fact is that Croatia has over 300 regulated professions, an average EU standard of about 200. Obviously, we're too freaked out, so not obviously, but we're aware of that. A very interesting one sentence, the construction sector would be burdened by additional operating costs which would reduce their competitiveness. So I can argue, we also have evidence back in two years, 1.5 to 2 building costs in the Republic, whether it's low-building, whether it's high-building, you know what, from 40 to 60% of the price went up, 40 to 60. The fact is that prices were previously underrated, that they worked at a level of rentability, cost-effectiveness, but this is certainly too much. And I know that certain raw materials are especially in road construction that have grown. We can understand, we've increased our wages. When you look at the structure, the structure when you look at the costr's participation so that 50% so you didn't increase the workers 20, 30 or 40% how much the total price is, I understand that you need to make a profit, you need to invest in refurbishing equipment etc., but let's be realistic, let's be objective and competition is always welcome. Well, I'm surprised Europe doesn't have what we have. Well, I haven't noticed that there are big problems in Europe with their heads of construction not being members of the chamber, or perhaps they are so questionable and so important. In Croatia, better financiers know, I think it's over 340, 350 so-called. parafiscal loads. 340, 350. So I think any move like this where there's a partial discharge, and that's the fact that it's a discharge, that it's more than commendable and should be welcomed with broad arms and commended, however, it's obvious that they're "tracking a trail of money and everything will be clear to you from where the wind blows". It also writes, the expertise and quality of authorised leaders,... This is authorized labour leaders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, they're mahogany engineers of buildings or building engineers who've acquired their knowledge with a degree, a work experience, a professional exam, so they've proven themselves in the business. I know that chambers work and certain education, additional training,... Anyone who wants to work on themselves and interest is lifelong learning, if they see personal interest in being involved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there's too much noise about it, the fact is that in 2015 we proposed this law but by 2015 it wasn't, there was no mandatory membership, I didn't notice that there were some problems that are now being talked about, that it would be, that it would arise in construction, etc. We're correcting the mistake because obviously the interesting lobbys were stronger, we didn't look well, we didn't listen well, so here, now we're trying to correct what we've done wrong, I hope it's not too late, but on the contrary I'm saying that I think it's more, that's a step forward. And of course, the HNS will, in the future and in its resolutes and also to non-leading resolutions, propose tax discharges because I say, over 350, 360 parafiscal duties, of course some of them have a purpose, but the vast majority of them think they could end, relieve the citizens, relieve the economy, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147242	We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Vladimir Bilek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Batinić, so I am pleased to admit that a mistake has been made and that a mistake is now being corrected, it is very nice to me, to reduce every parafiscal imposition especially in the economy, construction is really welcome and that we all here today have concluded that those who participate here are primarily responsible and that when we have an investor, primarily a designer, a supervisory engineer who is then selected and the performer himself. However, in most cases the construction site is directly contacted or most cases and supervision and the investor contacts the construction manager because most of the contractors or their owners have no contracts, and the only thing we disagree with is that there is no responsibility of the construction manager because their responsibility is extremely large, although perhaps not directly to the investor but indirectly through the contractor himself, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147244	The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147245	Thank you. Well, colleague Bilek, yes, and I said in the debate and I'll repeat what I think my experience is telling me, so as an investor you're making a deal with a natural person, with a legal person, and as an investor you don't communicate, you don't contact a construction manager, there's a supervisory engineer. Depending on the amount and size of the project, you will, if you consider or if you listen to the profession and the profession will recommend you, take to yourself a project manager who, on your behalf, controls your account and conducts your internal supervision alongside the supervisory engineer but I am saying, question the size of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147246	The next replica is the respected representative of Vinko Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147247	Thank you very much. Comrade Batinić, you are absolutely right that the builders and construction heads have nothing to do with the public procurement absolutely. But I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about the fact that we often have a big one, you know, I can see that you're doing a very good job because we often get public procurement of companies that are bad, that have co-operatives and they're asked about the result of their work. That's why we often put the conditions of different professions as a condition to get these jobs and then come to control what I've already said, but you understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147248	The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147249	Thank you. Comrade Grgic, yes, we all face such situations, however, I say whenever through public procurement as flexible as possible and a new law can prescribe a lot of things, but then you must install a fuse to say so and engage a project manager who for... Of course you know that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that some times looking at the manager, the price of the project manager and the total investment may be disproportionate, but it is true, however, the contract I say, the investor, the legal person, it is also known to the Construction Act, for a minimum of 2 years, this, for the quality of the works, I don't know if it's 10 or how much, so that he doesn't make any mistakes now, means fuses, you have a legal person and a basis and demand if there's any damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147250	He's next to the esteemed representative of Davor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147251	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Batinić, I agree greatly with your presentation, but now let me ask you a question. What do you think the designer who designed the first project, implementing the main project, etc. And take responsibility for the building, the second to take on the expertise of the building and the control of the building. Why am I saying that? In practice, it happens quite the opposite. If a contract is signed between the performer and the supervisory authority, there is a contradiction between the projector and the supervisory authority. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147252	Dear Representative Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147253	To be honest, my colleague Lonchar may not have understood. You mentioned means designer, project manager or whatever, but the fact is that certain, in practice, does not work, so they are not compatible with certain roles through running throughout the project. If you have a designer who designs logic, maybe not, but he's allowed to do a project, design surveillance. The other thing is, construction control is another thing and the third thing is the project manager that you personally hire to control everything. Because the project manager, if it's a big project, I'm going to think about 10, 20, 30, 100 million kuna, is interested in him making an idea project, hiring him in the beginning and leading him through the main project, practically protecting your interest in this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147254	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Vinko Grgic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the end of this story, I would simply try to remove this political component from this debate as much as I can because it's really about a professional law exclusively specialized in engineers, architects, builders, etc. So we can get to some, I won't say shooting and outsmarting here that are probably the fruit of former political scars, but I wouldn't just put myself on the side of the profession and listen to how and what the profession will say about it and then set up his, first professional and later political position regarding this law. If we look, if we're talking about the profession, then it's a chamber, then it's a chamber that was once unique, founded in '98, 2008 or 10 years later disbanded into chambers of architects, builders, engineers of electrical engineering, engineers, geodetics, etc., now urbanists, or urban architects of landscapes that we welcome. However, when we look at the materials that preceded this bill, when we see their public debate, then we realize that there is great discrimination between the promoters and them, which is the problem. What we can later, as at this point, turn into a political problem, which is very simple. Let's say I listen to the profession and let's insist, ask, ask first and later insist that the position of one and the other be approached in some way. And then if they get closer, if it's really close, maybe the difference in words or the score, which can sometimes be very important then we can support it, without a problem, the waist can say it. But at this point, I have to realize that it's not good. From the public debate and from this I will conclude, I will read to you only or quote only a few chambers that have declared themselves, the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Construction v, says, opposes the erasure of provisions which prescribe the rights and obligations of authorised construction leaders and authorised labour leaders. The Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineering opposes the erasure of provisions which prescribe the rights and obligations of authorised construction leaders and authorised labour leaders, etc. The Croatian Chamber of Architects opposes the provisions, noting that there could be a reduction in the quality of the participants in the construction, difficult application in compliance with other regulations, current and long-term harmfulness for the investment environment. The Croatian Chamber of Engineering also opposes and the Croatian Association of Construction Engineers says the need to leave the existing legal obligation of construction manager and construction manager. I think that's enough. And for this reason, from this place, I appeal once again to the legislator of this law and to the chamber to draw closer to their position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147256	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Željko Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147257	Thank you very much. First, I'd like to thank all the participants of this debate. That's why the debate is also serving to further dissipate some things in the last even, even if we're in the first reading and there's going to be time between. However, unfortunately I must reassess by representatives of the profession and distinguished colleagues who are... architects don't come up with arguments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a persistent position of chambers and chambers here are interested or affected by foreign reforms. If you cut someone 10 million kunas, he will rebel and fight with all means. It should be accepted because other arguments simply do not exist. HUP, for example. It was mentioned today that HUP gave two conflicting opinions, one 29.5. and one 6.6. are completely contrary opinions, one for these laws and the other against, while the chambers lobbyed and opposed. When it comes to references, the references from the chamber are certainly not confirmations and a piece of paper, the references are the quality of the works carried out and there is no word on that piece of paper. So someone could have had countless papers behind them and everything went down, everything went down, it's out of that paper no one's gonna see. So only arguments especially when engineers talk are asked for arguments and reasoned debate. The argument was not today, the arguments were not in the public debate and the views, or what the chambers pointed out as if their arguments were actually unsustainable completely and what was stressed and warned the chambers that they had engineering codes and that it should be observed in fact that the chambers amounted to their vision of the situation if the data were not true. And today I mentioned here in this hall that the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning had to intervene on the false data that chambers sent to their membership and thus seduced them into, in this survey. So, this reform measure has been carefully chosen, it has not been hastened at any point and it is fully founded, it has not, until today we have not heard another argument that would speak against these reform measures. So the results of reducing administrative and parafiscal intrusion in the construction process will contribute to the greater competitiveness of society, to the greater competitiveness of our builders, as well as to fostering chambers to more intensive professional work because they will be in the interest of keeping these 5,000, 5,500 engineers in their membership. For the time being, they are forced here, forced to pay contributions to chambers and there is no interest in taking this more professionally, or in providing what chambers must provide, which is safety for the client, safety for the investor, and not just security for their member. Because if the chamber does not do a two-way job, if the chamber only protects its member and does not protect the client then it knowingly reduces its role and honor and what should be the responsibility of the chambers and their members. Whether it's a difference today whether it's a member of the chamber or not just because you have a stamp and a card or if it's supposed to be something else, does that mean that whoever's a member of the chamber has a greater responsibility and a greater reputation in his society? That's what we all have to do. So that those members of the chamber who really have a greater reputation in their society then have reason to be members, not because they were forced by some law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147258	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on these two common points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147259	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, First Reading, P.Z.E. Number 659. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction and secondly, will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 72 for, 14 abstentions and 24 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147340	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a national sport programme 2019 to 2026. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 2. Sports law. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed Deputy State Secretary of the Central State Sport Office, Kresimir Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147341	Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we have before us the first strategic act of planning the national level in the field of sports that we have never had in almost 3 decades of our independence. On the basis of Article 2(2), The law on sport at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings it to the Croatian Parliament for an 8-year period. The national sport programme for 2019 – 2026. a comprehensive act on the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia and will be a foothold for the development of strategic documents of all national, regional and local sports organisations. Since sport is a multidisciplinary phenomenon in the drafting of this document, experts from various areas are involved. The Secretary of State had a professional working body whose members were experts in the field of kinesiology, economy and rights, and experts from other related areas such as sociology, medicine, construction and tourism were involved in the development of the National Sport Programme. All relevant stakeholders in the sport system from local sports communities to national sports associations and roof sports associations are also included. During the production of the document 7 workshops were held throughout Croatia, in Zagreb, Varazdin, Rijeka, Split, Zadar, Osijek and Bjelovar. The work included 395 sports workers from all counties, 182 personally attended workshops and their written proposals were actively involved in the process of drawing up this document. Workshops with all national sports alliances were held, for the purpose of analysis related to the recreation of citizens' activities a study was carried out on a representative sample of Croatian households with the aim of collecting data on the level and type of participation of all household members in various recreational activities. Also analyzed data from the Ministry of Finance related to budgetary allocations for sport at the level of municipalities, cities and counties were also collected as separate from the state budget. With the help of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the National Sports Federation, which is an education institution in the field of sport, collected data on the overall qualification structure of trainers currently in the system of sports while all roof sports associations provided information on their members and their sports results. During the period from 18 January to 18 February 2019, a public debate was held with an interested public during which 11 additional roundtables were held with stakeholders at local, regional and national level, with a total of about 250 participants. With the measures and activities envisaged, and in accordance with the subtitle of this document according to a healthy and active nation proud of sports successes, we will ensure the conditions for a balanced development of sport through the continuation of the achievement of the top sports results according to which the Republic of Croatia belongs to the world summit compared to the number of inhabitants, but we will ensure a significantly greater activity of the general population because in this segment, according to the analysis data, we are not standing well at the moment, and this is a kind of public health problem. In accordance with the shortcomings and opportunities of Croatian sport established in the analysis of the state of vision of the document: Croatia is a country of sport as a way of life for all its citizens and countries is recognizable for achieving top sports results. The mission of the document is a transparent and efficient management of the sport system so that all stakeholders continuously create preconditions for the development of all emerging organisational forms of sport. This document contains 6 general, 19 specific objectives which include 62 measures and 147 activities which will allow for the reduction of shortcomings in Croatian sport between 2019 and 2026 and the use of opportunities provided in all three organisational forms of sport, as well as the provision of the Sport Act or legal basis for this document. It is a competitive sport, sport in the system of education and sports recreation, or health-oriented physical activity. The budgetary allocations of the central state in these three years have increased by more than 100 million kuna and by more than 50% compared to 2016. In order to continue that trend, in order to achieve the desired effects of further investment, three specific objectives should be implemented and measures of the first general objective of ensuring conditions for the development of sport, which will ensure a more transparent and efficient functioning of the system through the coordination of public needs programmes in sport with the national sport programme and a clear definition of public needs in sport, the purpose of funds, the way in which they are allocated and their control. Clear criteria will be established for the evaluation of public needs programmes in sport, as well as for the categorisation of sports based on which sports of national interest will be determined, and to ensure a uniform distribution of resources and the development of all sports according to actual indicators of mass, results and other indicators relevant to each sport. It will also enable the creation of better quality conditions for further work, ossification and the achievement of top sports results. A system of separation coordination will be established for sport from different public sources, through the integration of different public administration bodies, which allocate funding for sport to create an effective rational system that will guarantee optimal use of funds. A recommendation will be made on the minimum allocation of funding budgets for sports at the level of units of local and regional self-government. A detailed analysis of the tax system will be made which has a direct or indirect impact on sport, both in the Republic of Croatia and in EU countries, and on the basis of documents on good practice, tax measures for sport will be defined. This will also take care of the VAT Act, the Law on profit tax, the Tax on Income Act, and the Law on Contributions. Despite the recognition of Croatian sport as an international value, data from the analysis that almost 70% of the population is inactive is alarming data and, as I have already mentioned, a serious public health problem. In addition, too few children are involved in regular sports activities through the education system, and Croatia has not used its many potentials to develop different forms of sports tourism. It is necessary to implement 3 specific objectives and measures of the other general objective, which is to improve health... physical exercise and increase the promotional values of sports, which will be continuously provided by means of co-financing of sports recreational activities at the state level and locally promote physical activity and encourage regular exercise of physical activity throughout life to improve the health of individuals, local communities and the entire nation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will ensure the training of non-swimming children through the project Croatia swims in collaboration with the Croatian Swimming Federation, thus reducing the number of non-plyers in the Republic of Croatia. Swimming is one of the basic human needs, has a comprehensive impact on the human organism and the sense of sport, sports recreation or rehabilitation contributes greatly to the quality of life, and is particularly important as a prevention of drowning. There will be an increase in opportunities for health... physical exercise within the system of education through regular teaching, extracurricular activities because it is the best way to massage sports of children and young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Conditions will be created for increasing the number of sports in the system of inter-class, inter-school competitions and will include students who do not participate in competitions in the activities of school sports companies in accordance with their needs and interests. The compensation for the work of kinesiologists for increased range of work in school sports companies will be provided, Chinese scientists will be further educated for working with people with disabilities, especially children and students with disabilities. People with disabilities will be integrated into the system of school and academic sport through the increase in sport programs offered to them and through quality sports staff insurance. One of the big problems of many athletes after the end of the sports career is the adjustment in a different way of life than those leading during their careers, and in the focus of the future development of sports in Croatia we will provide all the preconditions for a athlete to be satisfied with his position in society. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to implement 4 specific objectives and measures of the third general objective called improving the care of athletes, which will encourage the dual career of athletes through the provision of the necessary conditions for schooling during and after the completion of the sports career and will regulate the rights of athletes during schooling. Subsidising the training of current and former top athletes at high schools and attending adult education programmes for the acquisition of professional qualifications for sports work and the employment of top athletes will be ensured. A stable scholarship and care system will be provided during the career of top athletes by introducing a single state-level scholarship to athletes of first and second categories. It will ensure the settlement of mandatory contributions for top athletes of the first category. A working status will be introduced for professional athletes by contractual relationship modeling most of the EU countries, as well as improving the health care system for athletes. We will provide further conditions for the development of sports talent and the achievement of top results through funding development programs, preparation and competitions of top athletes. The involvement of socially sensitive groups in the sport system will be increased by co-financed sports programmes involving the groups mentioned because sport is one of the best ways for social engagement and the inclusion of each individual. ... the application of scientific knowledge in sport, to develop a proposal for a national model for the detection of sports talents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With insufficient funding, insufficiently outdated and poorly maintained sports infrastructure by stakeholders has been highlighted as one of the main disadvantages of sports in the Republic of Croatia, but the specific problem is the unregulated way of keeping records of sports infrastructure at all levels, and this area needs to be regulated by a new legislative framework. According to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016-2020 Programme last year and this year, the Central State Sport Office co-financed the reconstruction of 24 sports facilities of interest for local sport throughout the Republic of Croatia. And the measures of the 4th general objective will allow for an even more systematic further investment in sport infrastructure, which requires the implementation of 3 specific objectives and measures of the 4th general objective, which is called to establish a systematic and rational approach to state sport infrastructure management, which will define the process of establishing and establishing a network of sustainable sports buildings and connect the network of sport buildings at local level into a single network of sports buildings at the level of the Republic of Croatia through the national information system in sport. The conditions for construction, maintenance and safety on sports buildings will be prescribed and standards and norms for the construction of sports buildings will be laid down. The need for new sports buildings as well as the restoration and additional equipment of existing foundations will be established, which will continue to invest further in sport infrastructure and will adapt the number and equipment of sports buildings to the real needs of sport, as well as the needs of disabled people to whom we will pay particular attention. Investment of central state infrastructure on the basis of criteria and a network of sports buildings will enable the progressive equalisation of the availability of content to their children in the Republic of Croatia. It will also encourage the construction of national sports centres in line with the needs of a particular sport or a group of sports. One of the key challenges of further development of sports is the quality of professional personnel in sport. The future development of sports expected in the Republic of Croatia is not possible without continued educational trainers as well as all other sports experts who must be able to monitor the development dictated by roof organisations, a multidisciplinary character of sport, as well as its economic impacts. In order to realise progress in the field of professional staff, 3 specific objectives and measures of the 5th general objective should be implemented, to improve the care of professional staff in sport, which will ensure the conditions for lifelong learning and training of professional staff, and to identify legal persons who will take care of the system of licensing in sport that will be introduced, and which has not existed in the Republic until today, and with the aim of improving the quality of training in sport, both through formal and informal and information education. We will equalise the provisions on professional staff for all sports, similar institutions and public documents in order to make their acquisitions available to all under equal conditions. We will conduct an analysis that will identify the real needs of sports for professional staff, and will, in accordance with the above, develop curricula and programmes of expert studies and staff training programmes that will... Greater quality of professional work, standards of interest and qualifications for professional staff in sport will be developed and installed in the Croatian qualification framework and directly into the European qualification framework. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, we will confirm the relevance, quality, visibility and comparability of qualifications in the EU area, and bring labour market needs into line. We will further encourage education, training, training, and the employment of expert staff. In order to minimise all shortcomings relating to the system of management in sport, and in particular the non-compliance and absence of official registrations and records in sport as clear provisions that would oblige stakeholders to keep records, thereby greatly reducing the possibility of quality further strategic planning and carrying out performance analysis, and setting clear targets based on accurate data in individual sports. Three specific objectives and actions and activities within the sixth general objective are defined to improve the system of governance in sport, and we will define more clearly the roles and tasks of individual stakeholders in the system of sport, promote gender equality, prevent conflicts at sports sites, encourage culture of non-violence, and volunteerism in sport. We will coordinate what is particularly important and connect public registers in sport, and implement the national information system in sport with the associated registers and reporting system that will greatly facilitate further strategic planning, strengthen the management of administrative capacities of stakeholders in the sport system, improve the efficiency of work in sports organisations, encourage greater application for EU funds, and encourage the creation of strategic actions. Furthermore, we will also enable sports activities to be carried out through crafts which the current law does not recognise. Finally, I would like to stress that this first strategic act of sports planning the Central State Sport Office and this government show that they are seriously approaching all sports problems from top, recreational to sport in the education system. By means of this national sport programme, we will ensure that 2026. We are still proud of the great sports successes of our athletes, and here today is the year of one of the most likely and greatest victories last year in Moscow against England and we will ensure all the conditions for playing sports, but also to be much more active, and consequently a healthier nation than we are at this moment. Finally, I would like to stress that 3 amendments to the HDZ Club of Representatives today have been accepted by the government, the amendments refer to the recognition of the anti-doping problem, the implementation of new anti-doping measures, making the number of activities and the number of measures in this document grow by one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147342	Thank you very much. We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147343	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Shami, you've done a really nice job, summed up everything important from this national plan that we finally got and my personal congratulations that you've finally succeeded. I have only one question to continue the debate to see if there is this problem, namely reading material I saw that the largest number of objections you did not accept came from the Croatian Olympic Committee and from the Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb, and in the media we were able to read the statements of the representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee that they were not involved in the production of this material. Is this problem solved in the meantime and will implementation of the programme because implementation will actually be crucial, there are problems because of the attitudes of a part of the Croatian Olympic Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147344	The answer of the esteemed Deputy Shami.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147345	So, first of all, the head of the working group of this document was the vice-president of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the president of the Croatian Judo Federation of Mrs. Sanda blank. The members of the Croatian Olympic Committee are 85 national sports alliances that were all on round tables or all were invited to a maximum of 5% have not responded, everyone has had a chance to say this document, detailed records and all constructive remarks that could be accepted and accepted, I see no reason why anyone would not implement anything from this document is that this document exclusively contains those elements that are prescribed by Article. 2. The law on sport, and when this document is adopted, it is also necessary to pass, each year, under the current law of the National Sports Council and the Annual Implementation Programme, which further defines specific objectives and tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147346	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vladimir Bilek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147347	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, first of all, I congratulate you on a document like this that's really inside itself has summed up everything you could in the next eight years. The guidelines and everything we'd like to do, I hope we can all do it together. First of all, I talked to several of my colleagues or presidents of sports communities who were at some of your 11 round tables that you spent in January and February and really that relationship and the comments received inside were really commendable, some of the things about schooling as well as the non-swimming children, I think that, first of all, there should be a country standing on that side and making sure that, in a certain period of time, that it learns to swim and that it is the basis, but what I think is the most important solution of infrastructure in the areas of certain units of local self-government that may not be able to solve on its own, here as one example, is the small sport stadium in Daruvar which is the only such in the area of Belarusian-Belorian County except Bjevar where unfortunately the unit of local self-government cannot handle it alone, and I believe that you will have the support of all of us and in increasing budget funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147348	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147349	So one of the most important objectives of this document is the sport infrastructure, in the last 2.g. is the Central State Sport Office based on the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period '16-20. co-financed 24 sports facilities based on competitions, we will continue to do so, but first and foremost what is necessary is the process of bringing up a network of sports buildings that must give us an answer to how many sports facilities we have in which part of the Republic of Croatia, and then we need to define both standards and normative how much we need which types of sports facilities compared to the number of inhabitants, the number of clubs and the interest for individual sports in each region of Croatia. Of course, we will include in these criteria the criteria of the development of a particular area, because sport infrastructure, professional when they are absolutely the basis for further development of Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147350	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147351	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with fellow workers, excuse me, yes, first question, I think I'll join the commendations and I won't waste all this time right now. I'm interested in one important thing, here are the proposals and who will participate in front of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Education, the Central State Sport Office, but there is no Ministry of Finance. It's been mentioned 20 times in this document by the Ministry of Finance, and we know how important it is, he's gone. I hope that these amendments, which have been accepted, will not only stop at any well-intentioned proposal and possible extension of this roof document, so we are not only addressing all bodies to solve, analyse and make a solution, or what is our goal to all of us. So, and then we should really accept everything that is in that direction, and hopefully that's how it's going to be about the other amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147352	Thank you. The following is the replica of the respected representative Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147353	Thank you, Vice President. A nice welcome to Mr Shamija and his associates, what I would like to note in this valuable effort you have put into the national strategy for the development of sports is the fact that too little mention of EU funds is being made. I invite you to the new programming envelope of the '20s. Until '27. Make additional efforts and make this 0.16% share of our budget, which is now up to at least some European average that may not be in the first year, but to get to about 1%. This is primarily important for reasons because, as you said, we have extraordinary sports results and we have insufficient investment because we do not have enough tax discharges by the private, economic sector, then I believe that these investments that have been coming from national funds where these 24 projects are secured, but that through budget rebalancing are being provided additionally this year. funds to cover another project. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147354	Dear Deputy Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147355	So, first of all, the current separation of the central state for sport is 0.22% of the state budget, so as I said it was 100 million kuna more than it was in 2016. So the total separation of the central state at this point is slightly more than 300 million, total isolation of all units of local and regional self-government is 1.3 billion kuna, the amount in 2011 was a billion plus 200 million. You also mentioned the European Funds, I can proudly say that with the help of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Demography for the first time in history, so last year a public call was issued from the European Social Fund for Children, for children's sport at risk of social exclusion, sports for people with disabilities, and in record time, the first, first contracts were signed, which the Minister of Labour specifically stressed. So, we showed that and without having sport in going to a national strategic document defined as a priority and having to go one of its goals through the story of social inclusion we managed to withdraw the first funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147356	Thank you, thank you. The next one is the respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147357	Thank you very much. By listening to your explanation, a man would say great, but as someone who's been in sports for 50 years, then I ask myself how much this whole thing costs and that's a key question. And talk about the strategy for the development of Croatian sport, not to say that the key document to be passed is the Law on Sport Financing, unfortunately these are just free desires. Secondly, you are a representative of the Government here and you cannot say that you accept the amendment of the Government, because the government is referring to the legal proposal of the text and therefore the Government is also directing this proposal, and you cannot accept what the Government is because you are a lower body. And the other thing, here is often mentioned the Sport Act, this Sport Act has one concave, I ask you to listen nicely, there is one sacracial provision where you as an office have lost a number of disputes, even in my particular case that officials cannot be the leaders of the alliance. There's a law lex specialis law on preventing conflicts of interest and he clearly says his own and I don't think you can mention this law here that's radical in a lot of its provisions and it needs to be changed as the first thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147358	Thank you. The next replica is a respected, response to the replica of the respected deputy secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147359	So, as far as the government's amendment is concerned, the government has adopted these amendments at its session today, and therefore they are mentioned, therefore, in conclusion. Okay. [[- Okay, okay, but we can't get out of the bench.]] Furthermore, as regards financial resources, I will point out that the Sport Act, I must mention it because it is current and it is also valid on the basis of it and we are bringing it here in this document, recognises that the financial indicators are shown in the annual programme of implementation of the national sport programme, but I will note that, at the opening of this document, the Minister of Finance also attended the public debate and that he has shown full support and that, through the assessment of the fiscal impact, additional allocations have been defined in the following year following the record increase and for the scholarships that I have mentioned for pension and health insurance. I will also repeat that, in the mandate of this government, the increase in sport is incomparably greater than any increase so far, it will continue in accordance with real needs to ensure that all objectives and tasks are realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147360	The next replica is the respected representative of Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147361	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'd like to ask one question here about the general report that came before us, I welcome and raise the budget, I welcome and scholarship students. So after winning Olympic medals, that will allow for other students. I am interested in one of these national sports programs whether a draft sports high school and boarding school was considered, as is the case in some countries of Europe, so that all sports facilities would be in one place, teaching adapted to training, accommodation within the sports centre. One such strategy should predict such things. Also, I would like to know how many sports inspections have been made and how many offices have since he became independent with this increase in funding have contributed to the development of Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147362	The reply of the esteemed Deputy Secretary of State? No, no, no, no. Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, so the first one on behalf of the HDZ Commissioner's Club will be spoken by respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147363	Thank you very much, esteemed President, distinguished representatives of the Central State Sport Office, colleagues and colleagues. Today it is 11.7. exactly one year ago in the evening Croatia was a proud country after Croatia's famous victory over England, in the extensions, we entered the World Cup finals, the greatest success of Croatian football in history. Sport has made Croatia proud and that is what sport can do. Unfortunately, in politics we cannot achieve what sport achieves, and that is why this segment of Croatian society is very important, and that is why it has finally come to the agenda of the government that really wants to deal with the problem of sport and already in the pre-election campaign it has clearly written in the programme, the pre-election programme which later became the government's programme in the second, second, whole education, science and sport that it will create a national sport programme and that it will be a fundamental, roof document of future development of sports in the Republic. And here after 2.5 years, after being formed and the office itself as a special whole, an organisational unit that should only be cared for by sport we came to have in front of us the National Sport Programme for 2019/2026. A year. Because sport has indeed been in Croatia for decades an important segment of social life but this social life or this segment of social life has not been connected, it has not been approached strategically, nor organised, nor has it ever been fully considered to solve sports in the whole that there really is a head and tail of one, one area that has brought much success to Croatia, areas through which Croatia has become a very recognizable country where Croatian athletes in individual sports, in collective sports have achieved truly numerous, valuable successes. The head of the Central State Office is also Croatia's most successful athlete, Mrs. Janica Kostelic, and it is clear that this government has approached this problem strategically, organised and that today in the Assembly, and based on the Sport Act, we have a document that may have been written long ago, long ago, in order to be able to implement certain provisions in time or before. Because really if sport is an activity of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, the question is to what extent are the preconditions for achieving such sports results that we have in the Republic of Croatia. We may be in 10 days, we don't know the World Water Sports Championship, next year we have summer Olympic games in Japan. The next year is the European football championship played in 12 countries, 12 cities, and it is clear that we now expect that in these sports competitions we will again be a successful nation with numerous medals and that we will again be collectively proud as we were throughout last year of the World Cup in football. I welcome our football players who happened 5 days after today's date showed indeed all, all the pride and everything that makes up the Croatian regiment, all what sport can do in a small country like the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about this document, it is indeed a strategic document that sets out the objectives of the development of sport, measures and activities for the implementation of these objectives, as well as the actors and contractors of the development and control measures for the implementation of the national programme. Maybe it's a little heavy reading material since it's really through a lot of parts of the i.e. Chapters of this National Programme are not easy to read each individual measure to be taken in future development in order to achieve the overallity of management means with the field of sports in the Republic of Croatia. In order to make this work and on the basis of the Government's programme, it was necessary to do a comprehensive analysis of the overall system of sports in the Republic of Croatia that would realistically show all segments of sport from infrastructure, funding methods, training of trainers and athletes to the involvement of the population and, of course, sports activities. This analysis pointed to 6 general objectives also discussed by the Deputy State Secretary, and is intended to be achieved in the period from 2019 to 2019. 2026 C.E. Certainly, first of all, it is necessary to provide preconditions for sport development, secondly improve health-oriented exercise and increase the promotional values of sport, thirdly improve the care of athletes, establish a systematic and rational approach to sustainable sports infrastructure management, improve the care of professional sports personnel and the final goal of improving the system of sport management. In order to monitor the implementation of the national programme, it is planned to bring together all sports involved to ensure that all planned objectives are realistic. It should be said that when funding sports by the state budget and through the budget of the unit of local self-government and regional self-government, it is necessary to take care of mass in order that those sports whose athletes do not achieve the highest results, but are gathering a large number of children and adults, may have the opportunity to develop. The Central State Office's budget follows the government's policy towards the entire, I say, field of sport and every year was higher compared to last year, 2016. 221 million kuna, 2019. 336 million kuna. An increase of 100 million kuna in 3. It is indeed a certain effort to ensure that the system of sports, I say, is functioning normally. It should also be recalled that a Regulation has been adopted on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in the field of sport which allows recognition of foreign professional qualifications, sports trainers, sports teachers, instructors and sports leaders, and for the purpose of achieving business creation and provision of services on a temporary and occasional basis, and that 27 solutions on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications have been issued so far. As regards the co-financing of sports programmes, the promotion of local sports and sports competitions, and this raises the amount allocated from year to year, i.e. 2016. 1,400,000,00 kn, 2019. 110.000.000 kn for local development means promoting local sport and sports competitions. We heard that it is also being invested by the Central State Office itself and in sports infrastructure, in 2019. A public call for co-financing for construction and equipment of sports facilities totalling €8.750,000 and 22 projects have been co-financed. Sports infrastructure is a problem and local self-government, but local self-government leaders have clearly come into the problem for the last few years, given that there are no clear sources of state budget that can be co-financed by the construction of sports facilities, and that is one problem that should be slightly different from what has been written here, but that it is clear what can be built, what halls can be built, in what places or in municipalities or cities to so many and so many inhabitants, who should or what kind of object should be, because it is now all kind of released to each local leader and simply comes to the fact that sports facilities cannot happen because there is no possibility of getting co-financing from the state budget, and from the EU funds can, but the amounts at that time do not help to close the entire financial structure. Whether the Central State Sport Office should have more money for that purpose in the coming years, I think that and that there should be ways to find ways in which these objects can really be built. We're there sometime between 2003 and 2010, '12. Indeed, they had a large construction of sports facilities when there were positions within the state budget, within the division of the then Ministry of Regional Development and almost the largest number of municipalities then and cities built their facilities through certain loans programmes, but also only co-financing from the state budget, and that is the sports infrastructure that we have today within 500 units of local self-government. If it hadn't been for that time, today we would have had an even bigger problem than we have. I think it's in the space to think about with everything that's here to ensure that, I say, the development of sports itself is seen organised, of course, with everything that's written here. When talking about improving the care of athletes needs to be highlighted in particular 3 aspects, it means to ensure the subsidisation of current and former top athletes at high schools in all knowledge or attending adult education programmes to acquire professional qualifications to work in sports and to care for the employment of top athletes. Secondly, ensure a stable scholarship and care system during the career of top athletes by introducing a single state-level scholarship to athletes of first and second categories. And thirdly, it is very important to ensure compliance with the contribution obligation for top athletes of the first category. So, subsidisation, scholarship and settlement of compulsory contributions because we simply have to make it easier for our athletes to practice sports, these are some aspects, I say, that we must work on and that is the question that always arises after the great successes of our athletes and we ask ourselves how it is possible for someone in individual sports to achieve a top score from a small country, from a small Republic, while other countries in organised, organised sport dealing simply and with larger financial investments cannot achieve such success. What should be said is that the worrying data listed here that almost 70% of the population is inactive and that too few children are involved in regular sports activities through the education system. I think there's a problem with sports infrastructure again, and simply in small areas there's no great possibility that children could really be organised in sports if it's not about someone's voluntary work, if it's not about someone's good will to organize and allow children to deal with organised sports. It is up to us, I say, that today and through this national programme we are talking about sports because it has really made us through history proud and of course it will make us and in the future not less proud. But clearly, with these problems already mentioned in the opening section, it means to ensure clear financing of sports is a fundamental task without which this document will not work and this is something that will already have to be discussed in the next debate on the state budget because there are certainly problems in that part. Although the budget for sport I say is increased by more than 100 million kuna, although this strategic document is being adopted, even though for the first time the funding from the European Social Fund amounted to 100 million kuna has been provided for sport. For the first time the central state has set out to assist the local state in rebuilding and building sport infrastructure, 162 projects worth 32 million kuna have been co-financed through the offices themselves. Scholarship at high-school Olympic Medals conquerors. This year it will spread to other top athletes, it is clear that overall funding of sport itself needs greater and clearer care from the Central State Office itself, of course the Ministry of Finance, which should tell its own about the financing itself. The HDZ Club has proposed 3 amendments concerning part of the specific objective means 6.1 where it is intended to introduce a part that speaks about doping and self-implementation through other parts, the other two amendments speak about the implementation of that part through other parts of the national sport itself. I just want to end up with the fact that. I would like to say that we, as a HDZ club, will support the adoption for the first time of the National Sport Programme 2019/2026. A year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147364	I thank my colleague, Boric. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB representative club, respected counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is good to even come to the debate on sports in the Croatian Parliament and to discuss it very carefully and give it a lot of space and attention. It is even better to discuss the National Sport Programme for the first time, as Boric said just before, then we can also express our satisfaction in that part. There's a lot of problems, there's a lot of things to solve, but somewhere it has to start, it's a shame it didn't start long ago, and we haven't had such topics in the previous Parliament's meetings, because today, the situation would certainly be even better, and the results would certainly be even better, or those who provide us with a very often national unity would be that national spirit and optimism could certainly work in much better conditions, and these results would be even better. I will look more at the local level in this debate today, especially that rural part of Croatia, areas that have almost no conditions, which have an extremely high desire and insufficient resources. I will commend here from this very level of state office because here we are just like a small town, a city of athletics, a city where an athlete who won the first medal for Croatia Branko Zorko, has a chance at last this year with the support of the state office in this competition that has already been spoken of here to get an athletic trail. If it hadn't been for that competition in the state office and it wasn't for the state's office, it wouldn't have practically started to solve the problem. There are major problems in the infrastructure of the sports presence in the hall. We have situations that we have a very large disproportionate nature and the production of this catalogue and the network of sports facilities in Croatia will show it at the very least. We have a situation that we have built hall spaces in environments where unfortunately they're not filled enough, we have situations that we have cities that don't have room facilities and can't build them themselves. I talked about it also when he was at the discussion of the Law on Education and Fundamental Education in secondary and primary schools, and I think that without the insurance of funds and inclusion of the component of the Ministry of Science and Education he will not be able to address quality of this hall infrastructure because these are extremely expensive projects that local self-government cannot solve in itself and I do not believe that the state office of God would have such a budget that he could finance to a greater extent or at least to a significant extent such facilities. I think there was also a great move a few years ago when the Croatian Olympic Committee opened the item for the development of local sport where the competition is held every year and where some 70,000 kuna also contribute to various clubs throughout Croatia. This should continue to develop and cultivate because this small money is often crucial to some development of optimism and to create better conditions at local level for sport development. Of course, we can view sport not only as a exercise of physical activity and achieve some results, we must also view it as a means of combating addiction. And if we look at it that way, then we don't need to be sorry that there's much bigger money in sports, much bigger money because it's the right investment in the future. And our club will absolutely in all discussions about budgets insist, seek and support that sport is allocated as much money as possible because it is the money that is best invested in our youth. It's about school sports here, I think it's necessary to increase the number of classes of physical and health culture especially in lower grades of primary schools, especially in lower classes of primary schools. But what's important is to look back at those kids who aren't in clubs, who aren't actively involved in sports life, who aren't actively involved in sports and allow them to at least slow down at some point in sports activities, get interested because tomorrow they might end up in a club and do some sports. Here we have an organization that I want to mention here today in public, which has been gathering thousands and thousands of children for many years, children who are not active members of sports clubs who are very happy to participate in sports activities, which is the Youth Sports Games Association. I'm inclined to suggest that if there is room and space anywhere in this national strategy, the National Programme to be installed, at least somewhere, under some parentheses to know that they exist because they do excellent work, cover the space of what the system has not largely solved. They deserve attention, they deserve to be mentioned. What I would like to point out in the end is that it is important to secure the terrain, the object, the sports field and it is important to provide personnel who will deal with children and young people and we will get together children and young people. I think that this disproportionateity, which is stated in the detachment programme for sport in local communities, is an indication that it may be time for the laws of the provisions to be minimum exemption for sport and at national level from the budget as well as at local levels, to acquire one security of separation and then we can talk about the right planning document that will be based on some minimum drawbacks for sport and it will develop as such. In all this there must be one connection and synergy, verticals from local level across regional to national. And all those who participate in joining programmes, cooperating and all developing sport infrastructure together, developing conditions for sports, including as many children and young people as possible because there is a polygon that is most important to us, from which all of this can be drawn. The State Sport Office, in any case, I believe that it will continue in much larger amounts and this co-financing of objects and it must always be mandatory co-financing. It was wrong to build various projects throughout Croatia in recent times, and everything was financed from the national level. No, it must be connected, everyone must be involved, everyone must take over part of that burden and responsibility, that is, part of that investment. And then it'll be a lot easier for all of us. Local self-government since 1.1.2018 and regionally have much more opportunities to invest in sport, investment in the future because they have been provided with a continuous and stable financial structure of their budgets, amending the law on the financing of local self-government. Part of that money that comes towards local self-government should be invested in the future, in sports. We will support this program, hopefully bring in other documents that will be needed and hope there will be as much money to invest in sport as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147366	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147367	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, once again, the deputy secretary of state with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. A truly comprehensive document, we have had something similar in the history of especially our pre-accession negotiations and then EU entry the need for all units of local self-government and regional self-government to develop strategies based on which we have just linked individual programmes, projects financed by the EU that had to be linked to this particular strategy9. So in translation, you couldn't apply to some specific EU programmes unless you had this programme in a given, content-based strategy. It's something like this, it's a roof document, and it's supposed to look at it like that. He's supposed to give us answers to questions and actually he's asking the most questions here. He needs to give us an answer to the questions where we see sport, what we want, where we want to be. He here clearly sets up activities really methodologically and is very well-placed methodically, performed activities that are carried out, when, in such a way, it is seen that professionally made, however, we do not yet know anything from it. We only bring him in to force certain bodies to analyze and to make institutions that, with which money at the end of the line, that's what's actually the biggest issue, because all of this falls into the water if you don't have a round of funding, come up with certain goals. And even how to find out what our goals are, what our priorities are, are just a little bit first of all this introductory general speaking. Here we do not get an answer to these questions but we just articulate them that they exist, that as a start as one document that should be brought up, with their results to the creation of perhaps one final strategy that must then be applied to the amendments of certain laws, above all to the Sport Act, but then, of course, a series of tax laws, given that here it is also mentioned as one of the bodies that will also carry out certain activities, analyzed in the end line and the Ministry of Finance, because I think it is clear to all that without rounded clear rules of funding both by the state level and units of local self-government will be difficult to systematically do something. Whether in the field of software, whether in the field of hardware, it means whether in the context and the conditions in which they work, but also in what I have to say here, I haven't been able to find too much to figure out how they're going to educate, develop, who our children are, in fact, in what way they're raised in sports terms, but of course every other sense, which means playing sports. And as someone who's been doing it, I'm not going to tell professional sports, I've trained this one more professionally, and I've played less professionally, but this one is kind of a long, long range of years in sports and professionally later on on some side of the infrastructure, but also as a player and later as a coach, and then in the leadership of certain clubs I know what the main problems are. Of course one is the level of funding, but the second level is certainly both conditions and what is not here, which I warned the board about, but unfortunately I couldn't listen to the answer we had other obligations even in the government, the system of funding, I can't agree that at the level of professional sport to go see what matters to us, let's valorize certain results, let's know how to valorize and financially. But what's the point? The point is to involve as many children as possible, even among certain goals clearly and well said and very well said once again is systematically done. So also through health-oriented exercise and professional sports personnel. What I mentioned was the number and structure of the coaches that was done on one analysis and defined as a problem, but I don't see it as just a solution. So there's just schooling and professional training and a system of lifelong learning coaching through two passages mentioned. Of course it should be defined, that something needs to be done is not a solution, but let's go in order. So, first of all, children need to be the basis and we need to structure all the further efforts of any in that financial, either in that infrastructure part of the work, and even if you want in this educational work because these trainers must also be educators, because education is a pedagogical origin, so one thing is connected to another, and then later what comes professionally to that technique, technical perfection. So these trainers have to learn technique, and educational measures. And then we actually see that it all comes down to it again, as you are now in the cities of categorization present as the club performs in what league, what results so much money will get. So first category, first league, etc., second, third, fourth category something small because they're in some county some third league, etc. What in a certain sense if we have a law that says you can't finance professional sport is in collegiate alone. So you can't evaluate on the basis of semi-professional or professional sport, the results of how much that club will get, because it must be used primarily through sponsorship, that's the other part of the tax policy that you should talk about the same. And in fact, the main and basic criteria should be the number of children, as much as there is interest in dealing with certain sports, on micro-levels, micro-region as you like, you want from municipalities to cities and even county. And this system, whether it's the principal, whether the system through the units of local self-government vouchers, that every child, every parent knows to get for their child a particular voucher that works, which brings certain financial resources to a particular club that doesn't have to pay membership fees, that he doesn't have to drive his child, that he doesn't have to finance his children's uniforms because that sport isn't in the system of the club that achieves top results, but that sport has a great coach, an excellent collective, and apparently finds 150 children at one point, which more or less everyone works with the enthusiasm of his parents. And then sport, what would say the results happen by chance, because it needs to be recognized is not our goal just to get a top score so that club can be honored, we aim to get as many kids involved in sports. God forbid it happens that someone in the Republic can't finance a child's sport because of their financial resources, and we certainly have cases like that, because they can't pay membership fees, there's no condition for him to drive a child, etc., etc. And there, that entire paradigm needs to be turned around a little bit, which is our goal. I think that when we talk about roof alliances then it can be the result of top athletes, clubs, collectives, but when we talk about units of local self-government, regional self-government and the lower level then it must be how many kids you have, because some sports are 150 kids getting far less money than some have, I'm talking about collective sports now or even being able to put into conditional, individual, everything is known and it's the subject of strategy, analysis. How much individual sports this voucher is worth, how much that voucher is worth in collective sports and what sport, aren't all sports the same. Somewhere a coach can systematically, normally run 20 children at the same time, and in an individual sport, he can't take more than 3. And that too, it can be calculated clearly. And then follow that funding through the attendance of those children, through a sporting inspection that has been experienced over several years, through their growth, through their motor skills, technical abilities, height, weight, then we have a system that we can inform and craft exactly how many children we have in which rank, where, as they follow, they thrive, how they grow, where they are in a state of health at the end of the line when we talk about some health here things that we should also pay attention to as regards systematic examinations and our children's health, it will be a little more than that. So I'm saying this is a good start, which, absolutely and in the name of the club, we can say hello. I'm sure there'll always be ways to make a difference, but this still doesn't solve anything. We with this, if these conclusions and analyses of certain bodies are deafened or not understood, I have mentioned that when it comes to some tax relief, it was only put to being analysed but nothing that would be recommended, God forbid that we resent the Ministry of Finance. So, absolutely it must follow the government's policy and I'm glad that this government is investing more and more in sport, but certainly not in professional sport, and not now that we can admire ourselves with a silver medal because it's safe for me, I'm happier when children, the more children get involved, the more learning, the more educational measures, the more developmental and then it's the purpose and system of what we all have to provide for them, healthy and normal development in this country. Here's my thanks and my colleague Batinić... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147368	Thank you. Continuing fellow Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147369	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to what counterpart Curaj was saying, you have defined priority areas in the very introduction of the national programme in some way. So sport in the educational education, education system, top results and last recreational sport. With the first one I absolutely agree with, the top results of Croatian athletes there is a question to what extent public money, regardless of what level it can go to professional sport, it is certainly a subject to consider. But recreational sports, why here? Because you're also saying in the data that only 37.5% of citizens over 15 years of age are engaged in some physical activity which will say almost 63% is inactive in sports, or is not engaged in any sporting activity, which is certainly worrying. And there's been a speech here and before, primarily when we link it to the situation in our health system, when we look at the deficit in the health budget, then we see that maybe it should be one of the priority points in this national programme as well. Not neglecting these other segments. As far as health care is concerned in the sport itself, it is written although in general, although I accept that such a document cannot prescribe things more detailably, however, there is always a dilemma and I believe that the law but should absolutely give it better guidelines, the Law on Sport or the Health Act itself defines who can, how and how and how and how health examinations are done in athletes who are in competition sport up to 18 years old. Why do I say until I'm 18? It's a risk category. Because you have that many athletes are 14, 15, 13, 18 years old and compete in sports clubs, as well as in competition sports, excuse school clubs and also in competition sports, regardless of whether we talk about collective sports, compete in some leagues 3 and 4 and even 2. I say, I suggest, even though I say this in general, you couldn't go to these details, but it would certainly work through the law that maybe more concrete guidelines would be given to make the law right. The current law prescribes, however, I think it should be much more detailed, it is a matter of health. As far as sports facilities are concerned, of course there should be a certain kind of pyramid from local to national level, because sport happens in municipalities and cities, sport is not happening here, here we make decisions about sports but athletes live both in the city of Zagreb and in other areas so that certain guidelines should be given from the very top to the lower and how. Of course, in cooperation with local environments. It's the same as just funding. When it looks at how much sport is funded in the Republic of Croatia compared to other countries, of course it depends on fiscal capacity, on the possibilities of the budget itself, there have been some proposals on the community of sports associations operating in cities and municipalities to prescribe a certain rate of tax revenue. To be honest with you absolutely, yes, but I have one big questionnaire, and I have one big questionnaire just for the sake of the law that says sports programs bring communities of sports associations with which, frankly, local self-government and the city council don't have to agree with that programme. So I'd like you to go through the law itself and come into the parliamentary procedure to see, to evaluate and in further activities that you'll have as the Sports Office to try and better define these things precisely to the pleasure of athletes. Also, as far as the alliance at the level of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we are aware that there is a huge amount of money going around. But also where and what that money is spent on. Just one example, one middle got co-financing from the state level, building a football stadium, but it doesn't have a football club. So what are we now? How is that possible? There's a lot of work for you and, of course, we're here when the legal proposals come. So here's everything for sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147370	I thank my colleague Batinić. On behalf of GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Central, President, State Secretary in charge of sports with colleagues. Here I am, on behalf of the club GLAS and the club HSU, to express my satisfaction that this document is ahead of us. In previous discussions, colleagues have highlighted a whole series of facts related to sports in the Republic of Croatia that are commendable, and it has largely gone to the expense of the great results and great successes of our athletes and in team sports last year and in individual sports where we are particularly proud of it and where we believe it is extremely important that investment in these sports and in these athletes is something that gives the chance of the Republic promoting itself in other ways than, the state as such to promote both the world and Europe. But what makes us particularly happy is that this document is in one very simple and I would even say a very complex way, so the whole sport is one program, to succeed consciousness in these frames I think it's good and it's done in one quality way and that we finally have something that we have long expected, which we will be able to call on if nothing else when we make certain decisions in the future that are related to sport. Of course there's going to be some disdain about how we're going to do this, how we're going to do it. But this is really a document that we can at least call on. We haven't had that before. So here on that side, I think you should be given a confession. What we would like to pay attention to most to the public is that within such a programme is for us and I think that the Republic of Croatia should be the most important that the largest number of people and the larger number of our citizens are involved in sports. And especially the youngest of our citizens in order to create healthy, healthy lifestyle habits for them, which would automatically and the health of the entire nation, or some statistical data that has not been in our favour in recent years and not speak of us as the most healthy nation or a very healthy nation at the level of the parallel countries in the EU. So we have extremely high cancer mortality, significantly higher than what is some sort of EU average. And unfortunately, we're getting better at some diseases that have just been caused by unhealthy lifestyles of obesity, I don't know how to smoke, bad habits, and in fact the only real answer to these challenges is to include as many citizens as possible and, above all, young people and to create habits in young people to deal with sports. It's nothing new, I haven't said anything that we all don't know but until now we've somehow not been determined enough, first to produce a document where we're going to say what's really the state of things in our sport and then to set certain goals even if at the beginning some of them seemed perhaps unattainable or at first looked what, beyond any possible plans primarily in financial possibilities. So we see in this opportunity, in these, in these general and specific objectives proposed in this programme, a chance to achieve results through them, and above all, what I've said means about the results of involvement as many citizens as possible, especially young people, in a way that we can be, that this results in us being much healthier as a nation. Everyone here talked about how to come, most of them talked about how to get these results, they talked about finance, about the infrastructure that belongs to sport, the one that should belong to sport to make those results come true. I'm glad there's no megalomania in this document because we usually talk about sports or other things, but we're talking about sports, especially then we're big megalomaniacs, so in this megalomania, we've made some mistakes in our attitudes in past times, so let's just say the fact that some of the sports facilities that we've done in the past were able to have a whole series of solved basic infrastructure sports facilities, and we've decided to do something else, or then the policies decided something else, we've built big objects today in problems where the state has problems with funding, maintenance, some of which are likely to close, who knows what they'll end up with, and they've cost so much that we could have no idea how many solved, smaller sports, school facilities, less recreational parks, etc. So these weren't good decisions, and I'm glad that this document doesn't have any such megalomaniacs or any hints, but that we still stick to reality and that we stick to what I said we have to bring sport closer to everyone, make it available to everyone, and that it will go towards not just some, and especially not to some, and I hope that this will be the case, and that by implementing the objectives of this document, it will not go away, that it won't spill money into professional sport, especially that professional sport that has commercial values that can be itself, which is self-sustainable even from which many live well. So regardless of its mass, regardless of its successes, if it is self-sustainable in that it can draw itself out, then it is not necessary for additional, additional budget funds to be channeled into it, but for them to be directed, these funds are directed towards those who may at this point, and unfortunately have them in the Republic of Croatia whose sport as an activity is not sufficiently available. What I was also talking about on our committee, as well as colleagues who participated in the debate there, I think we need to connect more closely, meaning in the conduct of this document there are some indications that this will be the case, but that we need to act more strongly to have the view that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, together with your office, are working on how much it means with schools and kindergartens, decide that children have available infrastructure for sport, that they have available trainers, or someone was saying this is a question and raising children and creating good ways, good habits for children, which is of course important for their future and maturing and their future health. So I think we should simply introduce certain obligations, we are understated by all indicators, too few children and young people are engaged in sports and healthy activities. We know that in some times the good part of us were free activities in sport were mandatory, they were in some way a condition that you can even get a testimony at the end of the school year, we need to introduce a certain commitment of young people, primarily children to practice sports, but that it is also available to them. And that all schools are fully open in this sense and have an obligation to organise sporting activities because unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia there is also a situation that some of the sports have started to do their small businesses, to charge for training, to cost their parents, we have to make it possible for children in one part, of course it will not be possible for all sports, not in all environments and everywhere, but for schools to bear that particular part of the burden, to enable and open the doors of their sports halls along with their teachers and teachers and body education teachers that our children can play sports. Because unfortunately there is a situation especially in rural areas where children are not available, they can't get to the sports hall, to the sports field, so that's the first problem because they don't have enough good connections either by bus, public transport and others, there are no coaches unfortunately in such environments and there is no one and the schools are not able to organise it. I think we need to say at some point that I'm based on this particular document that they have to connect and that they have to ensure it. So these two hours of physical education, it's absolutely not enough, and we're not talking about a good part of unfortunately getting away with that 2 hours of physical education. So it's not good, it's not a good message I think the central office, the state and politics must generally stand behind it so it can't be. Here, I say once again welcome the adoption of this document, or a proposal for this document, and we will support it in the vote when it is voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147372	I thank my colleague Turina Đuric. On behalf of the SDP representative club, respected colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the central state sports office, colleagues and colleagues, so it is quite said specifically that Mr. Shami initially ordered everything crucial that this national programme brings, so I don't see the need to speak in detail about everything I intended. What should certainly be emphasized is that this is a significant day and that we are finally resolving a legal provision that has been in place for many years, but somehow from the government to the government has failed to produce this sport programme that should be the basis for all that will follow. The national sport programme from 1019 to 2026 therefore contains objectives and measures for their implementation from school, recreational and competitive sports. We as the SDP Club will support this national programme, of course, that like the others it is not perfect, there are good sides, there are those that are questionable, but it is the very intensity to improve the implementation of school, recreational and competitive sport in this way and therefore we support it, but we also expect to be successful in implementation, not that everything remains just a letter on paper that rarely happens with our strategies. Therefore, this national sport programme, with its measures and objectives, actually ensures the development of sport from the pyramid base, which makes for preschool and school sport to the very top where competition sport and top sports are located, and the whole pyramid should be filled with recreational sport. So I see somehow this pyramid of sports in the Republic of Croatia, if we really want to achieve this mission that says nicely that Croatia's country of sports as a way of life of all its citizens and countries is recognizable by achieving top sports results. What we also have to say today is that the top sport in Croatia is in big trouble and that the survival of top sports sports sports clubs depends primarily on the resourcefulness of leadership, individual club and that this part that we bring today will, if it is implemented in quality, ensure that we have a better school recreational and competitive sport. But without the quality of funding that will have to be to a greater extent, although money is increasing year by year, we must all be aware that it is not enough. The leaders sitting here, individual clubs or alliances or mayors and mayors, know how much trouble they suffer if in their town, in their municipality they have a first-class team in any sport, indeed, there is a way to secure a competition in any first-class rank. What is certainly good is that in the introduction, and in conclusion in the introduction of this document, it is stated that today the entire system of sport from which sports associations and associations are competent, concerns primarily about the implementation of the competition segment of sport, and that such a system, as we have today, has not established or provided a networked system of care for sport and physical activity and health function. We therefore welcome the emphasis that measures need to be taken with a view to better designing the field of sport and physical activities useful for health. Therefore, this national programme designs both models and prescribes guidelines, frameworks and criteria of plan, uniform and networked stable financing of all segments within the field of sport and physical activities beneficial for health. Therefore, in the Law of Sports which is current, which, of course, is certainly not perfect, but still, in Article 1. notes that sports activity is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, thus financing sports is of national importance. Therefore, the funding of sport is being achieved through the development of an action plan and concrete measures to ensure a prerequisite for the implementation of this national programme, not that it remains only a set of beautiful wishes that we have on paper. Of course, the teaching of physical and health culture in the education system is a key and prerequisite for the pyramid to even get top athletes. We heard some information about how bad the situation in Croatia is. Here, according to the European initiative to follow the thickness, 35 % of children aged 8-9 in Croatia have an excessive body mass and we are among the first 5 European countries with this problem. A total of 31% of girls and 38% of boys in the Republic of Croatia have excessive body weight and thickness, and 56% of children are observed to spend work hours at work for 2 or more hours a day watching television, using electronic devices, while this percentage rises to 87% on weekends. At the same time, each other spends less than 3 hours a week in organised physical activity, 9% of children spend less than 1 hour a day playing outdoors, and on weekends even this figure is amazing, only 1.5% of children are played outdoors on weekends. These are all data that show the importance of physical and health culture from kindergartens and of course, the need for greater employment of kinesiologists, both in kindergartens and from the 1st to 4th grade and of course later in the entire educational cycle. Information that needs us all concerned, which we can read from this material that only 24.9% of the total number of students in Croatia are covered in all programmes of school sports activities, which is certainly insufficient and I expect this national programme to increase significantly. The same goes for colleges, where the course is present for the first two years, later voluntarily, and where we also still have, despite the attempt by some high-schools to reconcile the needs and obligations of students in teaching and sports, this should be done far better, we have good examples from the world, I hope that this too will come from this programme that we have before us today. Of course the infrastructure is crucial. I think that the implementation should clearly, apart from standardisation of sports facilities, defining criteria and norms, include all stakeholders, from local self-government units, states and of course, private partners, through public private partnership projects, but which will be sustainable. According to the data we have, the poor education structure of the coaches, so if the kids aren't working with the ones that are really professional, that's a big problem. According to the analysis of the central state sports office, only 38% of coaches have shown that 38% of coaches without any professional qualifications work with children, which is certainly not good and needs to find ways to increase expertise through different forms of program through lifelong learning of all those who work in sport. The social and working status of coaches also stands out as one of the important areas. I hope that the implementation of that part will ensure, therefore, the status as trainers deserve and will ensure their normal life. Recreative sport, everything has been said several times, so in Croatia we do not have enough recreational sport, which is why when we look at our data, among the sickest, as regards chronic infectious diseases in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to talent, it is very important to establish a quality system and identify talent and talent in all segments, as well as in sport. I am sorry that in our educational reform that goes on, the gift, as well as working with children with special needs is not solved in the way originally envisaged, but I am glad that this programme is still highlighted by both the gifted and the disabled, and that it must also be provided in a quality way to carry out physical activity as one of the essential segments of quality of life. Therefore, if we take these 6 general and specific objectives to repeat them once again even though there is little but there is, perhaps someone is watching, so first and key insurance through sports funding, it is necessary to provide funding for public needs in sport and through the state budget and through the budgets of units of local and regional level, it is necessary to regulate the system of categorisation of sports and criteria for the evaluation of public needs programmes in sport, to clearly define the purpose of funds for public needs in sport, the way in which spending is granted and control, in particular, I stress and of course analyse and increase tax incentives for sport. Secondly, when it comes to improving health, focused physical exercise and increasing the promotional value of sport, it is important to encourage health-oriented exercise, encourage universal sports schools programmes and ensure that exercise of high-intensity physical activities is carried out. Ensure conditions for mass sports activities through the education system. When it comes to the third objective, the promotion of the care of athletes is particularly important to highlight the promotion of the dual career of athletes, the provision of a stable scholarship system and the care of top athletes, improve the status of less represented groups in the sport system, and increase the application of scientific methods in the field of the care of athletes, top sports results, in particular to ensure that quality health checks and as accessible as possible without the need for additional costs for both family and sports clubs. Fourthly, establish a systematic and rational approach to sustainable sports infrastructure management through the creation of a network of sustainable sports buildings, adapting the number and equipment of sports buildings to real needs in sport, and increasing the number of sports buildings and restoring existing infrastructures. Fifthly, to improve the care of professional sports personnel through the adaptation of the legislative framework to professional staff, the provision of training, training of professional staff in sport according to the needs and the harmonisation of educational programmes with the real educational needs of sport and the promotion of lifelong training. And, of course, it is crucial to improve the system of sport management as an even clearer definition of the role and tasks of individual stakeholders in the system of sports, to coordinate and connect public registers in sport and to strengthen the administrative capacities of sports stakeholders. Therefore, it is good that we get the National Programme, it is good that it is immediately defined that there must be a monitoring of the implementation of this programme and it is good that as soon as possible we move towards the development of a brand new Sport Act and all other sublegal acts that will ensure the implementation of this national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147374	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Next debate in the name of the club of representatives of MOST esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, respected representatives and respected colleagues from the State Sports Office. MOST of Independent Lists is pleased that a document of the National Programme of Sports finally came to the Croatian Parliament by 2026. So we wanted him, and I can say that this is a really serious document, which was done and that was seen as being part of the profession. However, I very rarely agree with Mr. Shucker in the debates but I must also say that this document will remain a dead letter on paper if it is not followed by the state, i.e. the financing of state and local self-government units. But it's not about you, it's not about you, it's about the Ministry of Finance, the Prime Minister and the Government themselves. A lot of things have been said that I won't repeat, and I'm going to look back at some items that concern my experience, like, in school and sports, and I'm going to focus on these things. So I'm glad this document deals seriously with school sports, but the current situation with school sports is not good. A weekend in sports halls project that practically more, very rarely revived, i.e. He's very rarely in school. In our halls, we do not practice children at weekends, but middle-aged men with beer bellies who have a hack of football there, but again I understand a school that in some ways opened up the commercial usability of these halls in the weekends and in the evenings because schools have to finance themselves from somewhere. So schools have to pay for their needs, so they have to pay for photocopiers, papers, so they rent halls to people who pay for that hall and our kids are actually out there. And that's one problem that we have to solve because, as already said, the low-class obesity already in primary school is very large. What I would also point out as a classmate who was a classmate in school for 20 years, and that is the problem of athletes and excuses in primary school, where we don't really have the right status of athletes until the end. I have to say here's my example that I was a classmate of once-now-a-top athletes that Mislav Oršić, a Dinam football player, and I have to say that there is no classmate who, if he had a classmate who didn't recognize his talent and who talked to his parents, he would probably never have become a top athlete because I as a classmate had an understanding of his absences, agreed with the other professors of interrogation so in different periods when he didn't have school. And it hasn't been regulated in primary schools yet. What I would also praise is that the document is not megalomanical and I ask the question here that we had this document so would these megalomanical halls that are mostly used to hold concerts and for which money could actually be built hundreds and hundreds of school halls. Would that document prevent building halls that didn't have cost benefits analysis? So that's a question that we need to open up about the debate on this document? So will this document direct Croatia's state and Croatia's government to build small sports halls, school halls, not megalomanical projects like this. If he wants to, I'll be satisfied, but I'm afraid it will depend again on the unit of local self-government. What the same document includes is a question of the status of professional athletes, i.e. Today, therefore, we have a situation where top athletes, after their completed career, open cafes and that it is in some way their only source of income or other things if some others get along. So, the Italian model that top athletes go to the military so there are sports units there where they are very useful as using their experience in sports, right in the military and maybe they could talk, should start talking about an Italian model where actually athletes after their careers continue their careers in the military. What I regret is that this document did not put emphasis on self-sustainability, so there are clubs in Croatia that are self-sustainable. One, which is self-sustaining, which I am a member of Futsal Dinamo, is a club where hundreds and hundreds of children are practiced, which is funded by club members, from sponsors and perhaps should consider that such clubs that are self-sustainable, which achieve top results, release VAT payments because in this way would encourage their self-sustainability and, in fact, that is the goal in which they should go. And finally, just one little digression, so while I was reading this law and following the e-Advisership, I noticed that the Croatian Football Federation submitted some of its proposals, so one fact came into his eyes, that they said that they should prescribe this document to the media that they would report from the game. I think we've been so communist for some time, so we can, I mean. Some documents should be prescribed to the media as they report to others with some matches, so they are mentioned here, so if at some match I do not know, 10 torches and that Croatian media should not report it, that it is a magnificent atmosphere, I think we should distinguish some things there. So, a year ago, we had a magnificent welcome from Croatian footballers in Ban Jelačić Square where hundreds of torches were burned, hundreds of torches, and we all think it was a magnificent atmosphere. Of course, nothing here mentions that throwing a torch into the field is magnificent because, in fact, I consider it a violation and a danger, but there are countries that went in this direction that have legalized the torches in the stadium so that everyone who wants to light the torch leaves a personal card to the police and, by chance, throws it on the ground, they're years of prison sentences, but there are special times when it's on fire. For example. Norway has this model, and there's no big problem with hooliganism, so I think one of them is, it's in my eyes, I think the HNS should be dealing with other things, i.e. to clean ranks in their bodies, not to prescribe to Croatian media how they will report from the match. I would also mention that there are still clubs in Croatia that are citizens' associations, which do not allow their members to have democratic elections in their bodies and that this is another problem that we have to deal with, but MOST Independent Lists will support this document because it considers it valuable and that it is going in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147376	I thank my colleague, Sladolev. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleagues, Sabina Vosovac, is not present. My colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147377	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Associates. So here is the proposal of the National Sport Programme for the period from 2019 to 2026. years and I think we can all agree that sport is an activity of special interest to our country, for the Republic of Croatia and the administration with the success of our athletes and their reach, very often we look forward, sometimes and grieve and very often, in all this euphoria we forget the foundations without which this story does not hold water and in fact where this story rests. What I would like to point out today, when we already have a chance to talk about sports, these are two things without which, in fact, neither healthy sport nor top-notch sport, either individual or collective would be. In the first place, it is a school sport, and secondly, there are coaches or those teachers, or teachers, those people who actually spend time with our children in the very beginnings of their sport activities. Without quality school sport, any story of a successful sport makes no sense. Not long ago, children, we could say, grew up in school playgrounds between two school bags that were very often replaced by necks or some more serious playgrounds, precisely because the playgrounds were often occupied by those older ones. Today, unfortunately, the situation, very often changes, children are getting smaller, playgrounds are empty, and unfortunately, children are spending more and more time not on playgrounds but in their houses, living rooms, no more between necks than between PlayStation and cell phones. While parents before them had to practically force their children into the house to do their homework or to engage in other chores, today it is unfortunately the opposite situation, and we must encourage our children to play as much sport as possible, to spend as much time outdoors in nature, on playgrounds. And that's why this school sport is getting more and more important, because very often schools themselves are the place of our children's first touch with sport. And here we now come to these our coaches, or teachers and teachers of physical and health culture. It is they who can tell our children and through the game in a controlled school environment that instill in them the first sports steps and teach them to act and in a collective one system where there is no cheating, in which there is no such thing as smuggling and no easy way to find. This is what I'm saying today, because very often we forget these very people, unfortunately sometimes we also demean them and their role in the education process, the education system, while on the other hand, without having any problems and thinking, we trust our children and expect them to be made of them by people and who will know how to deal with everything we can say both sports but of course and life's ups and downs, successes and failures. Each strategy, including this one, rests on people and of course on them and depends on me, teachers and teachers who deal with these very youngest age groups are the basis of every strategy, every programme that is related to sport. And that's why it's very important how we choose these people, how we treat them. We are very often witnessing that we cannot handle our own 2 or 3 children depending on how many people they have, and let's try to imagine what it's like for them who have them on their 10s and very, very often in smaller spaces. And personally as a longtime sports worker, judge and coach, I can say that I have experienced a number of situations in my sports internship, situations that were both positive and negative. I've seen coaches who've made generations of students and athletes a lot of great people, quality people and athletes. Unfortunately, I also saw those who treated their frustrations, their ambitions precisely on children, which is the worst attitude of thinking, and they passed on that attitude to children, and I saw even those who were physically calculating and wasting themselves on those children, and the reason why I'm saying this is precisely why every top athlete had to start his own way somewhere. And when we listen to the stories of the world's most successful athletes, there's always this one coach, that one teacher or teacher that's mentioned somewhere at the beginning of which it all starts, from which it all starts. Equally, it parallels me with it and saddens me to see how many unspeakable stories might have been left just because of the bad people, the bad coaches who didn't have room for it. And to say no longer, for the end I would just say that there is no successful sport, there is no great sport, there is no quality program without those, we can say that small people who teach our children those first steps and life, but also sports and before we go into big strategies, great philosophies and programs always remember them and give them one way to recognise everything they do in the development of sports development, but also the life development of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147378	Thank you. We have a replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147379	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Lipovščak, I agree with you that coaches are a very important segment in the development of sport, especially in working with our young and children, but it seems to me that in the future new Sport Act we must first of all think that in a better way we can resolve the working-legal status of coach so that they have this better resolved compared to the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147380	Thank you. My colleague Lipovschak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147381	I agree with you, colleague Jelkovac, it is becoming harder and harder to find general trainers, and it is more and more difficult to find ways especially in smaller environments so that we can tell them properly and spend time in training, time spent with children and without such a solution in the future I fear that there will be less and less of those enthusiasts who will want to spend their time somewhere, and that in one particular way they are not at least refunded.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147382	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147383	Thank you, dear Vice President. In very short, I am going to expand a little now one part of where sport is today or what we see could not go through this strategy, but above all, it will depend on what all through these objectives and general objectives and specific goals take into account, calculate and do in order to reach that final goal. Of course, the ultimate goal, or when we talk about general objectives and specific and preconditions for the development of sport, even if they were the basic ones when we talk about infrastructures, the framework, where we now have problems not only of the availability of certain sports, which, of course, depends most on the development of local self-government units, but also on the possibility of maintaining already existing infrastructure. So we come back here again sometimes in cohesion and with certain tax regulations, and I also mentioned in the reply that I am sorry that it is not the Ministry of Finance here and as one of the explainers if not already the promoter of this strategy because what they are mentioned in particular goal 1.3 to the 45th page where it says to analyse and determine the possibility of increasing tax incentives for sport there is a lot of this in a not-so-expanded text, but a lot of important things as exactly and this earlier mentioned non-taxation of part-time work, because just by increasing the ability of quality work, we know that most of the training takes place in the afternoon and evening hours, so the possibility as another income or extra income to some individuals would certainly result in more high-quality people getting involved in that part, because we know that the trainers don't make any great money by themselves which will attract some of the staff into the same amount of money, which is clearly getting into the same amount of money, but the same amount of money, but the same amount of money, so we can be used to the same amount of money, so we can be used to the firstly. We now have one situation in which current companies, companies that have just established local self-government units to manage and maintain these, and infrastructures in tax control get to suspend the possibility of return of pre-taxes, or other words, all those surpluses in front of the tax on entry, over the output accounts that the company is looking for as a refund, they stop and dispute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In some cases, yes, in some cases not because, as a given object or activity, you did not have an account issued and you cannot admit all the input accounts that you paid VAT. And so you're side by side in one year, maybe I said something wrong... So the company j in the VAT system, so it's not at all controversial but this tax treatment from the same body is different and we already have some problems here and we're not talking about all these potential reliefs and so they're being followed, etc. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So that's that part of the story. What is also important, as I have already stated earlier, is not only to see success but also interest, it must not happen to us that all funding falls on the back of parents, so some who can afford, children train, others who cannot unfortunately not, it is the saddest thing that can happen to us anywhere in Croatia today. If someone can't or can't train something, it depends on their parents' financial situation, and that's what they should absolutely take you as the main and primary goal and strategy. This is the most relevant to units of local self-government if the state is watching these alliances and roof alliances and professional sport, national teams, but we must be aware that much comes from that game, from the care of children, from entertainment and it should be a sport for them in those youngest days. Certainly not some commitment and burden. And then it should be encouraged, it should be valorised because I say once again, clubs that bring together 100 children, they should be rewarded because they obviously do something good, whether they have a senior team at all or not, regardless of how many kids or most often those children when they achieve results, it can possibly be spoken through some form of scholarship, through an alliance or a national kind of category, but there is no classification that in cadets someone won a place at some state championship, so now they'll get some extra as the entire club of financial resources. Unfortunately, there may be an exception somewhere whether these are more exceptions than rules. And that's what we can't lose out of our minds, that's exactly the way to value those who do. Of course, we should take and follow those kids not that someone just picked up the housekeepers and showed 150 kids and said I need so much money. This is the question then of the inspection that needs to be done, reports should be delivered, monitoring and children, their growth, weight, progress in the technical parts of each sport etc. according to individual parameters. Well, a little bit more serious, too, so it doesn't... and just then we return to this part of what is infrastructure, to ensure everyone's availability of what stories about coaches, their education and the possibilities of seductivity of dealing with themselves as an additional activity, untaxed or otherwise, and that's something that we can establish one structure, one skeleton and then we can talk about further steps when we get more children involved, when children, and I'm glad that I saw something here in the principle of sports school as well as mentioned, there's the same very good thing that should go down to the lower levels where we can just allow children whether through a system of schooling or through certain city offices or whatever you want, get an opportunity in one period to go as many sports as possible, from learning and swimming sports, hall sports, athletics, means as many different sports where they will then see that they are anfinite, di, some representatives of these sports and clubs will maintain their training, because they will come to a lot of the children's when they'll be able to spend more time with their children, because they'll be able to spend their children, and to spend more time with their children's, when they's, and to spend their children's, and to stay with their children's, and to spend their children's skills, and to get their children's, and to stay, and to get their children's, and to get their children's, and to stay, and to stay, and to stay, and to stay, and to stay, to stay, and to get their children, and to get their children, and to stay, to stay, and to get more, and to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to get more, to stay, to get more, to get more, to get more, to stay, to get more, to get the kids, to get more, to get more, to get more, to stay, to get the kids, to work, to get the kids, to work, to get the kids, to get to get to get to get the kids, to stay, to get the kids, to get to get the kids, so, to get the kids, to work, to [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it's one maybe wider, I would like it to be kind of incorporated in all the designs, these strategies that we've talked about because that way we would really position ourselves and determine what our priority is, and that is to say as many young people as possible, again not in any quality, engaged in sports and actively involved in all other aspects of life and, of course, when that sporting educational aspect passes. So I think, in conclusion, this is something that's not written in stone, this is something that needs to be monitored and the results and changed as needed, but it's an extremely good start to even talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147384	I thank my colleague Curai. We have replicas, respected colleagues Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147385	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. Sports should be developed anyway and this is very good, we who are from that generation older know that we had a school sport that was very much represented even though we had no predisposition in objects like that now. But what is now a problem is that really youth may be spoiled in one way and expect that everything is really in ideal conditions. I'm from a city where we've put a lot of money into this amateur sport, and I think that should make it even more potent through schools. And here we are the city that gave a lot of Olympics and world champions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147386	Thank you. Answer a fellow leak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147387	Well, actually, now you've reminded me of and this, it's hard for me to tell my youth as if I'm a little older, I'm not, but thank God, that before it might have been more expressed that selection, and before we didn't have maybe so many conditions and played basketball out on concrete, but somehow we have the impression that it was much more quality, they were getting a lot more results and with some maybe less conditions. We have lost that notion of a particular selection today except for a few sports where only the best are passing through some current process. And I just think that this solution, what you said through the transfer of some of the activities to school, to the education system, and that in this way there is one pre-segregation, but above all it encourages, encourages sports, because not all of them have to be top athletes in order to deal with sports, however, it is necessary to welcome every possible practice, of course, and that later recreationally in later times of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147388	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, it is crucial to assure young people that no matter where they live, in which part of Croatia, how much money their families have for sport. And actually that, if this national program succeeds in that, then it would make sense. And a good part of the guidance from him goes exactly to that end. Therefore, ensure that everyone in Croatia can engage in physical activity, and then come from that broad pyramid base those who will be particularly gifted and who will become top athletes. I answered in this individual debate to point out three examples. One example for which we received last week's Brussels Prize as one of the best projects in the global goals of UN sustainable development. Objective 3. Health, ensuring a healthy life and promoting welfare for people of all generations. So our Croatian Institute of Public Health, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education set off for the joint project in 2015. The project was called the “Poligon for School Children’s Physical Activity” and wanted to provide children who did not have suitable sports halls so that they could continue physical activity. And this project in 120 schools in Croatia is rated as exceptional and as a way for every child to live in an environment where there are no adequate conditions to ensure physical activity. Thanks to this project, funds have been provided to provide polygons for 1,000 other schools in the coming period, which means that we will significantly improve our ability to deal with physical activity because this transition from kindergarten to elementary school is really crucial, children in kindergarten are playing on their own, physically active but when they come to school and when they sit in school benches, this seating lifestyle begins to prevail. Another example I would like to point out and tell you that we are aware in the Croatian Parliament of colleagues and colleagues that it is a top sport in Croatia to breathe on gills and that any help, every innovation is welcome. There, I will publicly commend the Croatian Handball Union, which has decided to release all handball clubs for their first-level competition. ... That's what you guys Shucker are gonna do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And a third example, as a negative example, so I call on other alliances to ensure that, as far as possible in accordance with their financial opportunities, release wherever possible so that one season for each first-year club could end because it is truly tragic when in the middle of the season someone has to give up the competition due to lack of funds, we also had such situations in Rijeka. And a third negative example, the example of the Croatian Football Federation, which often knows how to teach us lessons, so their 16 members of the Executive Board shared 3.2 million kunas among themselves. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I can understand that members of the HNS Executive Board are entitled to travel to matches, participate in the great successes of the Croatian team. And already the fact that you travel free and you can enjoy those great... Our football players must have had enough reward for the effort they put into the work of the Executive Board of the Croatian Football Federation, so these 3.2 million kunas certainly didn't need it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They could have invested this in improving the conditions for playing football in some lower leagues, younger ages, rather than improving their fat current accounts. So these are three examples from which we can learn a lot, and hopefully these positive ones will be a lot more thanks to the programme that we're adopting here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147390	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the State Sports Office. Sports is the strongest instrument for fighting addiction and unacceptable youth behavior, and I think we should start with that. And if that's how we look at it then we can say that this document is quality, correctly done, we can tend here about this, but I'm going to focus my discussion on the functional, implementation of this document. So first of all, I'll start with the Sports Act. I just think we need to change it. Why? Because in this document you wrote that there are 19 professional clubs and 9 companies and you have several articles in the Law on Sport that deals with the Law on Commercial Society, which is why the Law on Sports should be clearly defined by what is Nucleus and if we want it to be the Nucleus of Croatian Sports, it is the school sports society and hence we must define clearly what professionalism is, which is semi-professionalism because it is in Croatian sport, unfortunately it has the most and what is amateurism. So that's what with a number of other things we have to define in sports and now comes to what's most important, and that's the law on financing sports. We have a state budget at this point, these are your gambling games and now in the back of a few years, the State Sports Office. We have units of local self-government and regional self-government, these are counties, cities and municipalities that adopt and meet common needs in sport when budgeting. However, there is no minimum of how much to be given for sport but simply as much as anyone wants. And now there's an elementary question that we have to answer in the provisions of the Sport Act whether sports associations can be professional clubs or semi-professional clubs in the community. Why? Because the Law on meeting the common needs of sports says that these are funding for young people's sports, not first league teams, not first teams. And now colleagues and colleagues, you also have a rhetorical question for your colleagues and colleagues from the State Sport Office, which would happen if you removed one state-owned company from Croatian national selection uniforms, except for the football team. There would be financial chaos. And that's a fact. So I say, and when I replicated at the beginning of Mr. Shamia without the intention of saying that something is wrong, it's the basis of everything if we want to do something in sports. Now, the next thing you know is taxes on payouts to athletes, coaches and official people. And take one game of one club to play all the games on Saturdays and Sundays at home, junior pioneers, pioneers, younger cadets, cadets, juniors, first team, and you have these 5.6 official people to whom you pay benefits and for every fee you have to pay taxes. You can imagine what administration that is. It's another thing. Except for a few coaches in Croatia, you have no regulated reception at all. In 2005, we had defined in the Income Tax Act, as regards receiving professional athletes. Unfortunately, it's gone and it's lost. Next thing you know, sports infrastructure, I'll wait for Bucharest, sports infrastructure, it's owned by units of local self-government, owned automatically by schools and practically complete gym sport, except for a few city halls depend on it. And now look, you, kid, you train something and you have to go pick up that kid at 11, half 12 to drive him with training, and at the same time some recreationals in that gym play at 9:00. So, as mayor of 2001, I made a decision that someone couldn't get into sports halls 11 hours ago, except sports clubs, and it never happened. If we don't regulate the use of these sports, sports infrastructures for free in favor of clubs and school sports clubs, we'll have a very hard time doing something. I've been at the head of a basketball club for a long time, out of the budget gets 500, 600 thousand kuna and then to use the gym, and you have a drive of several hundred kids, you have a 1 team, you have to pay 400 thousand kuna, and what did you basically get from the city? Nothing. I still had to pay the VAT on those 400 kunas. And then in principle I lost only, I didn't get anything. So if we don't solve it, then it's very difficult to talk about sports and mass sports. Whether through school sports companies we can use facilities for one of the widest possible sports activities and then through this school sports competition coaches from these clubs look at these best kids and drag them into a competition cycle. I remember, when I was a high school student, the Zagreb finale in basketball was filled with a box of matches. A box of matches, you couldn't get into the hall. High school championship. At the time, the student championship was quite strong. So, without that width, it's very difficult to come by, what fellow Jovanovic was saying, another, to top-notch sports. We in Croatia,... basketball, we in Croatia talk about basketball, while Zadar, Sibenik and Split are at this level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been overjoyed this year at the playoffs, you know why? Because Zadar and Cibona with Croatian players provided a great match. And now something. What happened with Cedevita, you have the Sport Act, which says Croatian clubs can play some kind of international, etc. Leagues exclusively with the permission of the national alliance. 3rd place in the ABBA League belongs to Croatia. You did not then send either you or anyone else's inspection or anyone else to determine whether Cedevita could take his status to the ABBA league from Croatia. At the same time, they demand to maintain their first-class status in Croatia. Did they use all this infrastructure in recent years because it's one question that can come up tomorrow as something that will be common. And we invested in these kids, they played in our teams, we gave them a chance, etc. How many young people we have today, and already some at the age of Chinese college, can't get a job at all. And that's one big question, one big question about how, with top athletes and not top-notch athletes, they played here at some local level, but they have ambitions and affinity to be coaches and give them the opportunity to get some degree, etc., what about these people who graduated from the Chinese colleges. Well, they just don't stand a chance of getting a job in the profession. So, we've invested a lot of money in their education and they work here and there today, and at the same time with children, people who have very much methodological access and training and everything for a number of reasons. You used to be full of playgrounds out there and basketball and for little football you had the afternoon, if you lost the first hack, they were supposed to oho-ho waiting for you to turn up, today all those playgrounds are empty. We simply need to attract these children in a certain way, and if I go back to what I'm going with, if we don't solve the Sport Finance Act, go to any club and you'll see what kind of memberships parents pay for so that their children can train them. Is that what we're interested in? I'm sure it's not, it's not in your office either, it's not in the government, it's not anybody's, but until we figure out how to finance the sport, unfortunately, it's gonna happen again. And one of these good documents as a basis for something if we don't bring in, operational acts to apply it somewhere in the law somewhere, unfortunately, it'll remain a dead letter on paper and we'll probably be there in six years talking about the same problems. Look at what we have, just because of this God-given talent, we have the situation we have. Our handball's down to two clubs. Water polo, practically two clubs. And we can read a series of such things so that it doesn't happen to us, we have to get rid of the basics. In order to even remove the negatives from the sport, then we need to clearly define how this sport is financed because if you give clear rules, then make it impossible for everyone else who wants to do something in a blurry, to work on it. But if you don't make clear the rules, then you've opened up the space for them. And so, if we want a good Croatian sport, and it's a sport that can only put us on the pile and not deal with all kinds of nonsense, then we have to clearly define the Sport Act and the Sport Financing Act, and that's the prerequisite that we have a quality sport, that's a prerequisite to move our kids away from drugs, it's a prerequisite to move children away from unacceptable behavior and therefore, this document is good, I sincerely hope that we'll discuss these other documents soon, let's not wait long and we have experience how to do it, we just need... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147392	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. Replica, colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147393	Dear colleague, it's a good thing you brought up the funding. That's what's very important, especially for those of us who've been through all these stages that we've been through in the profession of financiers. We have an example of a sports stock company, for example, we are, I think, the first city that we've done, KK Zadar, and when you look at it, we have a very big legal hole in how to finance a sports stock society. These are the various models that we rely on how to finance to make it regular, legal and right, but there really needs to be strained and done quality, especially since we own over 90% of that society. So there are big problems and it's a serious, serious topic that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147394	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147395	Yes, colleague Peric, it is the next phase of amending the Income Tax Act and the Tax on Profit. But not to fund sports as someone's channel for some kind of money laundering or something, but to really finance sports, and when I said, changing the Sports Act, then clearly define those sports stock companies. It is not good as the current law defines it, it can be clearly defined how many people can have ownership, if we want it to not be majorisation and not do as it pleases, and thus define and finance. Because it's not enough if you have a company and you start a sports stock company and you have a club. It is necessary to clearly define how these coins go precisely for some things, so I say, that is, believe me, the basis of everything if we want good Croatian sport. I talked to my colleague Maric about it, we did things together eight, nine years ago, and I think there's a good will in the Ministry of Finance, we just need to sit together and do it professionally. And then the clubs will spend it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147396	I thank my colleague Shuker. Next debate, dear colleague of the Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State with your associates. I didn't want to replicate to you since I was behind you. I agree, colleague Shuker, in the part where you spoke, first of all, about the status of the coach. What is now defined, and this is primarily from the level of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is that we have defined fees for top coaches, top coaches, etc., but what is the problem, which is, after the end of their career, if I followed it well, here is the deputy secretary of state, I think it will be able to confirm that recently the Prime Minister has been warned and understood this problem and said that this status of top coaches after the end of their career must be quite resolved in the manner in which the status of our top athletes has been resolved. So obviously your approval is a confirmation of what I'm saying. All of these discussions we heard today show that Croatia is a sports nation. We pride ourselves, in this we are unique, sport in Croatia is an integral part of, of course, our education system, but many children and youth who are involved in sports, much less in sports, much less in sports in extra-school activities, except for what is prescribed in the education system, or in schools themselves. In Croatian activities of sports or school clubs, around 15% of the population says one relevant newer study or about 650 thousand Croatian citizens, which means that 85% of us do nothing and do nothing. This is what is worrying, therefore, more than 3.5 million Croats are not engaged in any sport or any recreational activity, which is very low compared to the relevant indicators if we want to compare them with other European countries. One of my predecessors said 3/4 causes of all deaths in Croatia are cardiovascular diseases. It was found in one of his studies by Prof. Dr. Stjepan Heimer from the Zagreb Faculty of Kinesiology, citing similar data, i.e. by doing research. As for inclusion in the National Programme of Sports from the lowest level and experiences of some from the lowest level, I am pleased that you have made more workshops throughout Croatia, that you have talked to roof organisations, so I will, for example, point out in the area of the town of Čakovec where we have mandatory training for non-swimming during summer and winter camps, where different school, sports competitions are so that I think you have both found good examples in the Varzidian and Međimurje region, and I hope that they will also be relevant indicator for the National Sport Programme. As far as engagement from the government level is concerned, so to be very clear, sport except when we talk about football or those sports that we are most interested in saying as well as culture cannot function without financial support or without any support from the level of the central state or government. What has the government done so far? The budget of the Central State Sport Office has been increased from 200 million to 300 million kuna in 2018 and in 2019 I will only remind 336 million kuna, so 119 million kuna more than for example in 2016. Although this year is not an Olympic year and perhaps these funds are somehow not in such a focus, they are still being prepared, yet our athletes are trying to meet the Olympic standards of course. I think it's important that joint efforts have managed to maintain the percentage of gambling at 35%, and I think that's good. However, what the finance minister also announced was the question of how much he was involved in the National Sports Programme that some other sport-separation models were also to be discussed, which was said by fellow Schuker. With this programme, it is good that the regulated area of funding is, so the way to improve health-oriented exercise, increase the promotional values of sports, improve the care of athletes, establish a systematic approach to the management of sports infrastructure that we talked about. When I mention sports infrastructure then they can agree and it is true that when the class is finished, for example in a high school that has a sports hall, of course the founder is a county, then somewhere around 23 o'clock in the evening or 24 can come someone in turn because we simply don't have the capacity to prepare some amateur clubs or for amateur competitions which I agree that this infrastructure is insufficient for us or we just don't know what we own, in which way we own, in what state it is. And it's a big problem not only of these governments, it's a problem, it's a 10, 15-year-old thing that we keep saying over and over again. I'd like to look back on one more thing and that's what I can call it and discrimination in sports, and someone here mentioned a way of funding. There are a lot of local self-government unit leaders here who know how hard it is for them to get out of the budget to operate a number of clubs in their area. I can say from the level since I was president of the women's football club playing in the first football league where it was not easy to get funds that are not always small because it is played throughout Croatia, it is about football, so not about an individual sport where much larger funds are needed to maintain the competition. And I think why we're talking about discrimination, for example, you can't get a term at, say, a central stadium, but you're always going to some smaller stadiums because you simply don't have who to finance, or, for example, a home town where you have a club, where the club doesn't want to give free of charge like, I don't know, a colleague Jovanovic mentioned that, for example, in some other way, clubs are released, some kind of financial donations. I mentioned discrimination, you're here with three women, we have our secretary of state at maternity, so I'd like to draw attention to my colleagues to the latest research by the E-media Agency that has been particularly involved in women and the media, here are recommendations for better monitoring of female sports in electronic media, so I'd just like to do a little digression. So of the 319 contributions that were broadcast on our national televisions, therefore with the national concession, there were 86% of the contributions in favour of men and there were 3.76% of the contributions in favour of women. No matter what we have top athletes, they are usually in individual sports, but I think the Central State Office would have to deal with the fact that we also have a legal provision of monitoring and sports and we also have sports television here. So for those so-called. Small sports that have no chance of being broadcast anywhere may not be the subject of a national sport programme but must certainly not be ignored. Because we can't get the impression that what's of course in the media is much more attractive and, of course, it's more attractive in that financial part when you attract sponsors. Of course, Croatia is also the most popular football, but you might be surprised when I tell you that the most popular sport in the world is according to the research that I have managed to find that it is actually volleyball and it is the largest actually sports alliance in the world according to some data from 2018 and on planet Earth, most people are actually volleyball. Of course, it also depends on the profession, I say in Croatia, it is still football, the most popular without a doubt in our country, but the most members of the volleyball alliance and here it is either recreationally, whether amateurally, or professionally, it deals most with it. In conclusion, I'm glad that the National Sport Programme has been brought in and I'm too busy time-savering, the vice president will warn me, I think this is a good basis for everything that just precedes us in the legislative sense and every other, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147398	I thank my colleague Glavak. We have a replica, dear fellow Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147399	Thank you very much. Comrade Glavak, you've touched the coach well, they're the ones who need to actually build a system for those who want to play sports, but if you don't allow them to perfect, if you don't allow them to contact the world's best trainers, unfortunately you'll be lagging behind and not be... And the other thing, I'm back again, maybe I'm already boring to some people, you have to define how to tax their fees because we only have in the 1st league coaches who are professionals, all these other amateurs who in their work, in the afternoons, train and it just has to be defined because look, it's tragic that a lot of basketball players, handball players, waterpolists get paid as craftsmen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a simple fact, but today when we talk about a plan to develop sports, we can't keep our eyes shut about it, we're bringing these young people into some kind of trouble tomorrow, and we just have to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147400	Thank you, answer, colleague Glavak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, another problem is that when you have a top coach, you have a top athlete he, for example, wins an Olympic medal and then has different cycles of some better and some bad results, you can't come to the big sponsors at all to put it that way. I think it's absolutely unfair and maybe when we talk about financial relief, maybe that injustice would be corrected in some other way if potential sponsors were given some other financial relief, of course we should work it out, put it on paper in some way so we don't come back into some gray or someone else's use, but the fact is that if you're dealing with less attractive sport, that very rarely the sponsors come to you and then they're all naturally either focused on mayors or focused on your office or on hoo, county offices etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147402	Thank you, colleague Glavak. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147403	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Deputy Secretary of State with Associates. In this proposal of the National Sport Programme from 2019 to 2026, the exact situation has been identified, the objectives of both general and specific, I would refer to only one segment relating to the financing of sports at city level. In a table showing also the ratio of funding for public needs in sports from the city budgets from 2012 to 2017, I paid particular attention to these cities which are less than 10,000 inhabitants since I come from Vodice which is now in the category. From what it stands, it is evident that the cities of the group are significantly negatively bounced by the percentage of the allocation of funds for public needs in sport compared to the total budget or public needs in sport per capita. So like I said, we only have 4.13% of the funds here unlike those big cities that have over 75 000 inhabitants, as much as 90% higher, means 7.89%. It says that the need to find solutions to channel funds from public sources since these guards are at least economically developed and have no ability to secure the funds themselves and there is the largest number, so we have them between 92 and 95 cities is exactly from this category. Now now that this situation has been identified, I expected to see it somewhere and the goals in which you plan or suggest we achieve and establish a system and a rational approach to sustainable sports infrastructure management. And here again one of the specific goals is to increase the number of sports buildings and restore existing sports infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147404	Comrade Shuker, please don't disturb your colleague while she discusses, thank you very much, please welcome fellow Members.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147405	Thank you. On the basis of this analysis, it will provide funding or co-financing for the construction of national sports centres for individual sports or sports groups as well as for co-financing of construction procedures in the field of local self-government units. So then he says, "Make it possible to develop certain sports and things like that," and now he's sure to provide funds to build some national sports centres, but again I don't see where the cities are below 10,000 inhabitants. It says that the implementation of measures and activities within this specific objective will depend on the financial resources available in each year of implementation. That means all the stories, let's go to that goal, but I still don't see how we're gonna achieve that goal. Now for information, I don't know how much you're up to, European funds are extremely significant funds, and I'd say to everyone, with open eyes, we're looking at as much resources as we can withdraw and now, for example. From 7.4 municipalities or cities below 5,000 inhabitants or at least in areas where we have under 5,000 inhabitants, they can run for funds to build different sports and facilities, playgrounds, equipping these facilities, while cities that have more than 5,000 inhabitants, such as my Vodice, are not able to run for European funds. As we do here, we will, of course, adopt this strategy concerning the period from 2019 to 2026. Here, my call to get involved more actively, let's include in the planning of the next financial envelope of 2021-2027 so that we can withdraw certain amounts from the European funds and help these cities which are now showing the largest, essentially, the largest pair and the smallest funds are being allocated right for sport. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147406	I thank my colleague, Juricev-Marinchev. We have a replica, a respected colleague of the Sun's Head, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Juricev-Martinchev's. I agree with you. What the national strategy wants to achieve is to balance availability, for example and various content, terrain, etc. in all of Croatia, however, as it is evident from this strategy that as many as 10 counties in the Republic of Croatia, for example, there is no athletic trail at all. Therefore, we will find it difficult to meet that standard in due course. However, a little relief to the cities, I just want to remind myself of the fact that by applying income tax revenues to income, local self-government remained 2.1 billion kuna and that in this way we need to see how they actually are and how they decided to deploy those funds. It is also the same that we are a little bit more focused on withdrawing funds from EU funds, in the last year 70,000 of such funds, or projects, and I think we are on a good track, but this is worrying that you mentioned it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147408	Thank you, answer, fellow Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147409	Thank you very much, colleague Glavak. I really agree. Tax reform has given cities and municipalities more than 2 billion kuna, and I believe that responsible mayors and mayors will allocate considerable funds to the work of their associations. However, when it comes to building sport infrastructure, it would be very good, if you could, for example, talk about the athletic path, you could build and build from EU funds at present, but in settlements below 5,000 inhabitants, which I think is more appropriate for one object to be sporty in some larger settlements and cities. Well, here's my call once again, to consider and actively include when preparing the financial envelope for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147410	Thank you. Dear colleague Juričev-Martinchev at the answer. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Deputy State Secretary of the Central State Sports Office, Mr. Krešimir Shami, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147411	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. I am proud to point out that there is, therefore, the first national strategy, the first strategic document defined by the Sport Act in our history, so from our independence. What's not good is the fact that we are now in the 7th month. In 2019, the implementation of the second national sport programme should take place in the 5th year. So it's been 156 months since there's been a legal obligation to adopt this document. Also, MP Curaj was well noticed, I must agree with him there, that this document in some parts may not be concrete enough. As the representative pointed out, the analysis was well carried out. The limitations for carrying out the analysis are the fact that there is another legal obligation that exists for an equal number of months and an equal number of years, which is the information system in sport. Also, during the term of this government, registers of the national information system in sport were made, there are 8 of them on infrastructure, on professional staff, on athletes, on registered athletes, on clubs. Unfortunately, when this document was produced, some basic data did not exist or are not properly conducted, so we came to the point that a level of sports organisations provide information that 12 800 athletes are registered in a specific sport. Excuse me, 2,800 athletes. To get a representative of that alliance on the round table and now he says it's not the right information, we expect, now he's going to say 3,000, 3, 300. No, he says there are 12 and 800. And that's the number that comes from 240, 250 or 280 thousand athletes. So, at this point, we don't have official data, and we should have it, and that's what it's about, and it's especially important for the new Sport Act to better regulate the data entry obligation, but it's also not going by the beating method, but by the carrot method, that these data be the basis for further criteria, for more detailed criteria to know how much we have where. How many coaches, how many athletes we have, how many clubs we have, and our top performance that says that in 2018 we are the second country in the world in the number of medals in major sports competitions. But, too, unfortunately, we are the bottom of the EU by the physical activity of the general population. This was also shown by Eurostat data, the analysis was carried out on a representative sample of Croatian citizens, also confirmed by the Croatian Institute of Public Health, whom I especially thank for being particularly active and what is related to this second objective, which is particularly ticklishing, therefore, every state, if it has enough will, can build a sufficient number of facilities, can educate a sufficient number of trainers. What I think is the biggest challenge and the most difficult thing to influence is the awareness of the importance of physical activity, unfortunately, at this point we cannot be proud of it. Therefore, this lack of data results in a lack of official registers and a certain lack and insufficient concreteity. What is an opportunity for the law to provide for an annual implementation programme in which more detailed developments will be made. What is an opportunity are new legislative solutions that will oblige the management of such registers which will be the basis for criteria because sport is the most measurable social activity. So, public policy holders, I think they should be interested in two things. One, as far as children are primarily concerned with sport and how we can influence more children in each sport, and in addition to that, the basis of categorisation that mentions mass as one of the criteria in the document, and I must say that mass and more important criteria than the result, because it seems to me that sport is still too much of a goal, and a very little resource, and I think that this strategy is an opportunity, or this national change programme. The dead letter on paper will not remain safe because only in this year has 32 million kuna been allocated for the financing of 21 major sports events, which is a big step because so far the financing of such events by the central state was 0. The sport games of young people were also mentioned through the competition of great sports events were funded last year with 700 thousand kuna, this year with 450 thousand kuna. 118 projects of local sport have been funded, which are one part the answer to what counterpart Juričev mentioned, which is the fact that a large number of measures in this document came from, and that is that the smaller unit is local and regional, and we know that we have 576, which is a smaller percentage amount, which is also the smaller amount per capita. So, the funding per capita must be a criterion for us, a long debate was being held in the making of this document, and at a largely local level, it insisted from sports communities on regulation, let's say the minimum amount of separation from the budget of the units of local ones. Of course, we had a round table and with representatives of cities and counties, of course, they look at it a little differently because one part of it gets in the autonomy of the local and regional units prescribed by all the necessary laws. Also, 24 sports facilities have been financed, the restoration of 24 sports facilities of which is a good part and the athletic infrastructure that has been mentioned, so, what I mean is, will not remain a dead letter on paper because one part of the measures are already being implemented, and I can now announce that a public co-financing tender has already been prepared, and Agent Schuker mentioned this, training coaches, or training former top athletes, medal winners, especially for the acquisition of professional qualifications for coaching work. So, this is one measure, one contest which essentially includes two important measures, i.e. two important goals in this document, and one concerns dual careers, so, acquiring the competences of former athletes during and after a career to continue life and further quality inclusion in society, but we are also solving one problem, and this is the lack of trainers in sports, and there we come up with one of two perhaps the biggest absurdities of this document. The first is the absurd one that we are the top of the world by the number of medals, and that we are very low on the physical activity of the general population, and the second absurde has detected, which is that we have a lot of unemployed kinesiologists, I have one in my household personally, and on the other hand we lack a coach. This same strategy is mentioned, analysed, and this is a question of compliance of the programme with the labour market and with real needs, and here we can discuss the competences of those who have completed because we have a very strict Sport Act when we talk about the formality of qualifications because we are one of the rarest laws in the EU that recognises exclusively formal qualifications to work in sport, while at the same time we have a situation that of 85 national sports alliances that make up almost 100 sports and a lot more sports branches, for about half of these sports and sports branches we do not have a focus on a higher education institution or a training programme approved by the competent ministry of science and education because, as I said, the Sport Act recognises as the lowest level exclusively formal form of adult education. That is why the question of coaches and their employment and co-financing is particularly stressed. Also, the question of athletes and craftsmen, therefore also mentioned by counsel Shuker, and unfortunately, we are here by the number of professional athletes at the moment, the country worst standing with 94% of the contract of professional athletes who are not based on labour legislation. We also took care of the discussions with the Ministry of Finance and I believe that it will happen and I am sure that it will happen very soon in which we will analyse both profit tax and VAT and income tax, in terms of those who want to invest in sports and in terms of the costs of clubs and athletes themselves. There's another interesting thing, it's the Law on Contributions, by which, for example, the coaches of their fee are not subject to the payment of contributions but only taxes and taxes. No matter the amount of that fee. What we want to think about is, the fee of coaches who, what was also noticed in this public debate are usually people who do it as a second profession, and only the top pyramids are those who are professionals. When a study was made in 2012 of trainers in Croatian sports and the EU, then the fact that only 20% of coaches have some form of working relationship, and 11% of them have an undefined contract sounded terrible, alarming. But in principle, one Germany, according to their data, their Institute of Sports, has only 5% of people in amateur clubs who are professionals indefinitely. So we need to be aware that there is a lot of volunteer work in sport, a lot of part-time work, a lot of other occupations, and we need to find ways to make it easier for these coaches to work and how clubs to facilitate the co-financing of these trainers. Finally, this National Sport Programme will try to influence as many quality criteria as possible, the categorization of sports at national level, based on data on mass and data on results but the same, this categorisation is not the Holy Scriptures and what this National Sport Programme provides is to adopt similar acts at a lower level because let's say, let's imagine one categorisation that will give weight to certain indicators of the development of a particular sport then it is not a law for the local community, it is only a landmark because surely a water polo is not equally important in Dubrovnik and equally important in Vinkovci and that its importance at national level does not have to be an absolute reflection at local level. The other thing that is a major challenge for this document is that sport is an activity that is not institutionalised, it happens to associations, there is a certain autonomy of sports associations, there is autonomy of local sports communities and public policy holders in the local community that they will define criteria, how they will define ways of funding and what will be their priorities and also many times in the debate mentioned the word "education", "schooling", and we are all aware that the school system is the best solution for daily physical activity and for increasing the involvement of children and the best way to mass but in one part and based on selection in clubs. So I hope and believe that this document will achieve success, there are a lot of challenges still ahead of us, there are a lot of documents that need to be produced and prepared, a part of it has already been made and prepared, and it takes some work to be done, and I hope that we will not wait this long to discuss these documents, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147412	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Ivan Šipic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In all ministries, it is trying and working to make European funds an opportunity and opportunity. A chance for better living conditions and sports. It is therefore to welcome that the strategy is aimed at good work precisely at those who are underdeveloped, who do not have the conditions because if one of the criteria is the number of inhabitants, and, precisely, those small places, cities and municipalities, have the opportunity to prepare in a good way and take European money. To raise the quality of life seen through sports and sports infrastructure and the team and to raise interest in sport will be greater because tax reform mentioned here has brought plus many but these many cities and municipalities are the means for the most basic for the life of cities and municipalities. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147414	Thank you, colleague Šipić. You want to answer? Here you go, Mr. Shami, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147415	While this is, therefore, the first strategic document of the national level, I would like to stress that the development strategy of the Republic of Croatia is under way for 2030 and for the first time sport will have a goal and will be recognised in the documents of the highest level of state, so it will also be an opportunity to continue what has been done and we have already mentioned several, this is 100 million kuna from the European Social Fund and we have proposed national sports excellence centres as a project within the 2030 development strategy, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147416	Thank you, next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147417	... But if we're going to adopt this plan, and we just have to force all the stakeholders who need to participate in doing it, because if this or that minister is going to pull out that he's not going to change this or that law, then this whole story is going to be a dead letter on paper, so I said it. because you yourself mentioned a series of laws that we have to change but to do so, we have to pass two roof laws on sports, it's the law on sports and the law on sports financing and then after that we drive the others and... [[Specially enabled.]] Laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147418	Thank you. I would like to conclude the debate, thank the Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Office, Mr Krešimir Shamija and his associates for the reasons of the proposal of the National Sport Programme for 2019 to 2026. We'll vote this point when the conditions are met. We are moving to a statement on the amendments to the proposal for a national sport programme 2019. - 2026. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and MP Stjepan Curaj. We now have three amendments to the HDZ Representatives Club. I ask the Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State for Sport, the respected Mr. Kresimir Shami, to be shown about amendments to the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147420	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs of the HDZ Club's amendment are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147421	Thank you. They become an integral part of the law. We're moving on to the amendment of my colleague, Stephen Curaj. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147422	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal for a national sport programme 2019 – In 2026, under the specific objective 1.1, the text states that with the aim of developing and encouraging the most successful and most massive sports in the Republic of Croatia, the basis of the categorisation of sports will determine sports of national interest. Furthermore, the text states that this will enable the creation of better quality conditions for further promotion and the achievement of top sports results. The text and the proposed measures make it clear that mass is one of the criteria for evaluation and categorisation, but it is also the goal. The measure 1.1.2. also provides for the development of an analysis of the situation and the adoption of a regulation on the criteria of categorisation in which the adoption will take into account that criterion, and a systematic discussion with stakeholders will be carried out for the making of that document. Since the proposal for an amendment is contained in the text, the amendment is not accepted as said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147423	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147424	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Deputy Secretary of State, therefore the amendment was very short, I will only read it, which says: it will also be taken into account when defining the criteria for the allocation of funds and the number of children who are actively training in individual sports, and at the level of units of local and regional self-government, clubs and alliances themselves according to each type of sport whether individual or collective. So in translation, this means that I may have had sports that do not achieve top-notch results but gather a large number of children and that should be funded when the funds are allocated. And here first of all you don't think about these most successful sports in the Republic, here you think about those sports that in certain microcentres gather the largest number of children so far, if they don't have some observed results, especially senior results, their budget funding is very small or none. And it all falls on the parent's burden. So I'm glad to have this explanation that the number of children who attend certain clubs, alliances, roof alliances will be thought of as well, and I can accept that. I am aware that by not accepting it will probably not pass this amendment, however, this is enough for me to take into account, in this way, the number of children that have been set up for the sport, because this will achieve both the better quality and the mutually, so to speak. some competition among the clubs themselves. Who will activate, who will attract more children to play sports, who will do better to make this sport more interesting for children because it will depend on their funding, and from that I have no doubt that these results will pass, and also the success that will come. So, I think that's the same criterion and I can say from that side to accept the explanation, of course if the government didn't even accept this I'm aware that the amendment wouldn't go through, but it's important that we get to the same goal, so I'm withdrawing my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147425	So you're pulling back? Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Deputy Secretary of State for showing the amendments submitted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I shall set a recess until 12 p.m. when we will continue the plenary session with a vote on the debated points. Thank you very much. It's 12.38 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147426	Proposal for a national sport programme 2019 - 2026. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and representative Stjepan Curaj. We agreed on the amendments earlier in the session. The proposer accepted the amendments of the HDZ Club, and representative Stjepan Curaj withdrew his amendment, and I am voting on the proposal of the National Sport Programme 2019. - 2026, please vote. I find that the majority of the 112 votes for and 1 abstention is the national sport programme 2019. - 2026.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147427	We move to the following item of the agenda, which is: (a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President, the Vice-President and the work of the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures (a) Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the work of the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 8. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The discussion was conducted by the committee responsible for the economy. I ask the representative of the motion, the respected economy ministry, entrepreneurship and craftsman Mr. Dark Horvat to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147428	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. The provision of Article 8 paragraph of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures established that the President, Vice-President and other members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures appointed the Croatian Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is an independent and independent state body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement procedures, concessions and selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects and for submitting indictments for infringements by public procurement legislation. The State Commission is responsible for its work to the Croatian Assembly and consists of nine members, one of which is the president, two vice presidents and 6 members appointed to the term of office of 5 years with the possibility of another appointment. Before I begin to explain the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the resolution, re-election and appointment of members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, I would like to refer briefly to the public procurement system and its effects in the previous year. Public procurement has great economic potential and has a significant impact on economic growth. For example, through public procurement in the last year, the Republic spent over 46 billion kuna without VAT, almost 15% of total GDP, which makes up an increase of almost 11% compared to 2017 when 40.5 billion kuna or 13.4% of total GDP was spent in the same way. Nearly 2,000 EU-funded contracts were concluded last year in public procurement procedures, an increase of nearly 440% compared to the year before only 438 contracts were concluded. It is worth more than 7.1 billion kuna, therefore it is extremely important to know the legal framework, the principles of procurement and the rule of application of procedures. The greatest burden is certainly on those who directly participate in public procurement procedures. Public contracting authorities must be able to coordinate the public-procurement process between different bodies in the system and have to achieve the best value for money. However, public procurement procedures are very often specific and complex not only for public authorities but also for economic operators and especially for small and medium-sized companies. So today at this point focussed on the professionalization of the system. The available data from the 2018 statistical report published on the public procurement portal of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts are precisely showing that the new legal framework directs the system accordingly. For example, even though in most cases today large ones win public procurement procedures, in 2018, every other supply or supply bid almost 53%, in the public procurement process, came from micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, up by almost 50% compared to 2017. The European Commission is monitoring the progress of EU member states in public procurement, over 12 indicators, and I am pleased to point out that on the scale of the overall impact of public procurement and EU Member States, in the last 2 years of the application of the new Public Procurement Act, i.e. 2017 and 2018, from the unsatisfactory impact it had had in the previous 3 years raised to a satisfactory effect and placed itself on the side of countries such as Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria and Ireland. Last year, the State Commission marked 15 years of her work. I think we can say that the State Commission is a professional and effective appeal body with a high degree of transparency in its work. Today we have a highly digitized public procurement system that has one goal. Public procurement without paper from the planning phase through the conduct of the procedure, selection and to the appeal procedure and even the payment itself because a few days ago we created the obligation to make full use of the e-account. I would like to point out that persons involved in public procurement procedures must be professionals in their work. Since so far the President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Mr Goran Matesic, Deputy President Nekica Vidic and members Alis Brand, Goran Bukvic and Dragica Markanovic, on 15 July 2019, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, held a meeting on 8 July 2019, established a proposal for a decision to resolve the president, deputy president and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Furthermore, the same session also set out a proposal for a decision to appoint Mrs. Maji Kuhar, President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Nelic Vidic, Deputy President and Mrs. Alis Brand, Zvonimir Jukic and Daniele Antolkovic to the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures with the beginning of the term of office on 16 July 2019. The main criteria led by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in adopting this proposal are professional integrity, expertise and proven experience in the field of public procurement, whether as a public contracting authority, a member of the body which decides on complaints or the experience gained in establishing a legal and institutional public procurement system. Let me briefly present the information on the professional qualifications of the proposed candidates. Maya Kuhar is a candidate for the President of the State Commission. - Mrs. Crescent. Maja Kuhar is a graduate lawyer with a legal exam. She has long-term work experience in the field of public procurement, which she first gained through the work of the State Commission as an adviser and then at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth where she was, among other things, in charge of professional support in the combined procurement procedures for the needs of social care institutions. Since 2016, Mrs. The cook is employed in the Central State Office for Central Public Procurement in which he has served as Deputy Secretary of State since 2017. With her work so far, The cook has gained an enviable experience in preparing and implementing extremely complex public procurement procedures, experience in managing the organisation and teams of employees and has improved abroad, the Netherlands, England and America, respectively. - Mrs. Crescent. The cook ina certificate in the field of public procurement and is a longtime lecturer in public procurement education programmes. As an expert, she presents at international conferences and conferences and publishes expert works on public procurement as an author. - Mrs. Crescent. Nelica Vidic is a candidate for the deputy president of the State Commission. - Mrs. Crescent. Nelica Vidic is a master of international relations and diplomacy and degree. Economist, currently serving as deputy president of the State Commission. - Mrs. Crescent. For the purposes of Article 41(2), the applicant shall be an expert within the meaning of Article 41(2). The rules on education and the area of public procurement and on the possession of a valid certificate in the field of public procurement and shall be kept in the register of public procurement trainers at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts. - Mrs. Crescent. Vidic has a working experience of 30 years of which 20 years in the area of public procurement. Before taking office as deputy president of the State Commission, she gained experience in the management positions of the services of the KBC-Sister of Mercy and the FINA. She is the head of various projects in the field of public procurement, she participates in the projects of the FINA, the project of the cash centre, the project of the FINA office, the project of Brp.hr, she is the project manager of Spin, the project manager of the business process management project in the FINA and the project of joint procurement as a central public procurement body, i.e. she is the holder of 19 public-procurement categories for 36 health institutions. - Mrs. Crescent. Vidić is a lecturer at various professional workshops in the field of public procurement especially in the context of legal protection, a lecturer in the organization... the expert commission for the implementation of EU legislation, with the protection of the rights of the tenderers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Vidic actively participated in the work of the State Commission not only as president of the council but also as a representative of the State Commission at meetings of the Council for the Prevention of Corruption, the working body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the National Council for Monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. - Mrs. Crescent. Alice Brand, candidate for a member of the State Commission. - Mrs. Crescent. Alice Brand is a graduate. A lawyer who started working as an apprentice at the County Court in Zagreb immediately after the completion of her studies in 1989 is employed in HZMO where she worked until 2014 precisely on public procurement procedures and for all HZMO constituencies. In addition to the implementation of public procurement procedures, it also worked to prepare the draft contract for the supply of goods, works and services and to control the legal regularity of the contracts in question. - Mrs. Crescent. Brand is a specialist in the public procurement system and has a certificate in the field of public procurement slaughtered by an authorised coach in the public procurement system and has therefore implemented training and training of trainees related to public procurement activities and has made expert opinions and provided instructions regarding public procurement procedures, other HZMO building units, in particular to regional body units. It took part in the creation of a business policy of HZMO in the area of economic relations, particularly related to public procurement. - Mrs. Crescent. Brand was appointed a member of the State Commission in July 2014 where she performed her duty knowingly, motivation and above all professionally and professionally. Mr. Zvonimir Jukic is a member of the State Commission. Mr. Zvonimir Jukić is a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam, has a long-standing work experience in the field of public procurement, which he first gained through the Office for Public Procurement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Department for Public Procurement of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts from 2006 to 2008 and later in the publishing of the National Newspapers. Mr. Jukić speaks English and German and has participated in various national and international teams that are intended to improve the Croatian and European public procurement systems, he has been a member of the implementation of the Public Procurement Directives in the Croatian legal system, he is a member of the project team for the development of an electronic advertiser for public procurement of the Republic of Croatia, as a Croatian representative of the European Commission's expert e-procurement group and is a member of the EU Official Journals Forums. He organised and moderated the number of consultations in the field of public procurement, civil, criminal, commercial law and took part as a lecturer in numerous national and international educations, conferences and expert conferences in the field of public procurement. Daniela Antolkovic is a candidate for a member of the State Commission. - Mrs. Crescent. Daniela Antolkovic is a graduate. a lawyer with a legal and public-booked examination. Since 2016, she has worked as Head of the Office for Resolution in Appeal Procedures at the State Commission, where she has acquired organisational skills through the management of the work of the service and has further perfected her skills. - Mrs. Crescent. Antolkovic has long-term public procurement experience, which was first gained through work at the Ministry of Health where she gained experience from the perspective of the contracting authorities in preparing and implementing public procurement procedures and then at the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, working on the control of appeal cases, which contributed to obtaining a full picture in the public procurement segment. - Mrs. Crescent. Antolković completed a postgraduate specialist study at the University of Tora Vergat in Rome where she gained additional knowledge and experience through interdisciplinary approach as well as exchange of experiences with other colleagues from various countries and various legal areas, as well as a wider picture which also gave a contribution to the body in which they work. That study was fully scholarshipd by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. - Mrs. Crescent. Antolković has always shown a high level of expertise, motivation and independence in her work and has gained extensive knowledge and experience in the field of public procurement through her work so far. Allow me at the end of the short summary, i.e. the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in 2018. The State Commission has developed in the past 15 years both as an institution and as an authority in the field of public procurement in step with the entire system. Over the past 15 years, she has controlled over 18,000 items of overpriced value of procurement of more than 226 billion kunas. In its work, the State Commission has always sought to fulfil its competence with as little restrictions and extensions as possible of the duration of the procurement procedures. The importance of the State Commission is seen not only in the fact of the rapid and certain settlement of disputes in public procurement, but also in the fact that most public procurement practices are formed through decisions of the State Commission. In its work, the State Commission interprets and applies the right to public procurement in the light of European law and the practice of the European Court of Justice. At the same time, there is no need to ignore the contribution of members of the State Commission, the doctrine of public procurement rights through professional works, articles and participation in expert meetings. During 2018, 1170 complaints were received in the State Commission, compared to the total number of cases in the work before this state body, i.e. 1261, the average number of complaints in the work on a monthly basis is around 105 cases per month. Although a decrease in the number of complaints was recorded in 2014-2017, a continuous increase and complexity of appeal cases related to the possibility of using EU funds but with the increasing involvement of lawyers specialised in the procurement and participation of different consultants was observed. However, in 2018, there is an increase in the number of appeals cases by almost 25% compared to 2017, which is partly linked to the trust in the work of this institution by all interested entities in public procurement procedures and the effects of the application of the new Public Procurement Act. In particular, the public procurement law of 2016 entered into force on 1.1.2017 and only in 2018 after a certain degree of legal certainty had been established and after the time of verification of the procedures under official duty was opened, a significant number of complaints were also recorded. Despite the increase in the number of complaints in 2018, there was a reduction in the time limit within which the State's deadline to resolve complaints compared to previous years, so the average time from the receipt of the complaint to the decision of the State Commission is 34 days. It is time from completing the appeal case to making a decision this year is 14 days. In 2018, the high percentage trend of administrative courts confirmed the decisions of the State Commission was maintained. According to the 2018 data, courts have made their own decisions in only 7% of cases. In 7% of the decisions of the State Commission have been annulled and the case has been reinstated. Taking into account the decisions of the court to which the claim is rejected, the lawsuits are dismissed and the administrative court is suspending, the decisions of the State Commission have been confirmed in a high 86% of the cases. Transparency and public availability of the work of the State Commission is a mission that ensures both objectivity and predictability in the work of the State Commission. All decisions by the State Commission shall be published on the State Commission's website in full form, so with the name of the party and the application of the new Public Procurement Act have also enabled the publication of decisions by the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in disputes over public procurement. This has made the legal protection procedure predictable and transparent. The register of appeal cases is publicly available on the website of the State Commission and is updated in real time, which allows for a general condition in the movement of the case. As of 1 January 2018, it was possible to make an electronic complaint through interrelated systems of the State Commission and an electronic public procurement advertiser of the Republic of Croatia. After public publication, competition and supply of offers, electronic means of communication, the electronic complaint constitutes a further deadline until the full digitisation of the procurement procedures. The electronic complaint in public procurement is also a high achievement of the Republic of Croatia among other EU Member States. Therefore, we ask this home to adopt or make the proposal in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147429	I would like to thank Minister Horvat for this brief explanation of the proposal. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147430	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. This Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President, the Vice-President and the work of the members of the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure as well as the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the work of the members of the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will support the HDZ Club. The president of the above-mentioned commission, Mr. Goran Matesic, his deputy to Mrs. Nelic Vidic and members Alici Bran, Goran Bukovic and Dragica Markanovic stand out for 5 years, 15 July 2019, and their resolution is therefore proposed. At the same session of 8 July this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed to appoint the following persons, the President of the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedures of Ms. May the Cook. We've already heard from the Honorable Minister that she's a graduate. A lawyer with a judicial examination, a public procurement certificate, employed in the Central Office for Central Public Procurement since June 2016, has been a Deputy State Secretary of State of the Office for Legal Affairs and Contract Management and Framework Agreements for almost 2 years. For more than 2 years, she has also been an expert consultant at the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and for almost 4 years we are therefore of the opinion that she has both knowledge and experience for the management of this state body in which the complexity of the work is constantly growing. The deputy president proposes to re-name Nelica Vidic as well as a member of the State Commission for the control of the public procurement process, Alice Bran, who have justified the trust shown by their work so far. Therefore, they do not need to be further discussed and elaborated. I'm sure their knowledge and experience as well as the appointment of new persons like the president of Mrs. Maje Kuhar and new members of the commission, Zvonimir Jukic and Daniela Antolkovic, to strengthen the work and decision-making of this commission. We also heard that Zvonimir Jukic has a working experience gained from the law office through the Public Procurement Office, then the Head of Public Procurement Administration at the Ministry of Economy to the Head of Book and Legal Education in the National Journal, among other things there was a lecturer, a public procurement coach and a Head of Public Procurement Educational Programme. Daniela Antolković, however, has had experience at the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures since 2008, first as a professional consultant specialist and in the last 3 years as Head of the Professional Service for Resolution in Appeal Procedures. It should be said that the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure is an independent and independent body responsible for resolving the complaint concerning public procurement procedures, concession procedures and procedures for selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects. It is based on the European concept as a quasi state body. Since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, the use of European Structural Investment Funds has been more intensive and time-related, such procedures are complex and the assessment of the value of these purchases is high. It should be said that procurement is an important anti-corruption tool that you have constantly and for a long time upgraded. It is precisely for these reasons that it is extremely important that the people we are going to appoint to a term of 5 years have great knowledge and wide experience in this area, and this is precisely what professional and quality persons with experience in public procurement were acquired in different institutions from those selected to those of others, were in different institutions in different responsibilities and jobs where they were engaged in public procurement. We expect that this appointment will contribute to the speed and quality of solving the items received, which would be of great importance to all of us, especially when it comes to large and complex specifically European time-limit projects. The HDZ Club supports these appointments as oh proposed by the Government as this proposed candidate with great knowledge and extensive experience in the field of public procurement would need the State Commission to control the procurement process to strengthen its work and speed up decision-making, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147431	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147432	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. Here, we're counting down like this, so on behalf of the HNS Club, I just wanted to say that we're happy with the proposed candidates, and we're going to support the same thing, so out of a total of 9, now we're changing 5, or we're changing 3 candidates, 3 are new and they all have experience in the field of public procurement, which, by the way, we think that this next term will certainly be able to do quality work, just to point out something that's certainly for further thinking and it's about the responsibility of these people that they have in their business. In fact, we know that let's say the level of responsibility given that the amounts they decide on far, far exceeds their wages, and that should really be considered in the future that if someone who decides on billions is not exactly going to find quality people and we need to determine their independence both with their determination and with the level of pay. So it's strange for me here that someone who decides literally about a billion public money, state money, the money units of local self-government, has three times less pay than one vice governor. So that's something that we should finally think about, and with that we might still have more candidates and more quality, but I say, we stand behind these proposals and we want a lot of happiness in further work, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147433	Thank you, colleague Curai. I'm closing the debate, thanking Mr. Darko Horvat and the Secretary of State. Natasha Mikush Zigman on the basis of these suggestions. They'll vote on these points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-11-0.u147434	Let's move on, we have one point now that has a and b, and then under: a.) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President, the Vice-President and part of the members of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control and Procedures, and a.) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and part of the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the resolution of the president, the deputy president and part of the members of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, please vote. I find that most of the votes are 79 for, 25 abstentions and 8 against that decision, so let's now go under: b.) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and part of the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, please vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 20 abstentions and 16 against the decision to appoint the president, the deputy president and part of the members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
