ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141750	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, but here we are. We will, as announced, start with the 1st point, and that is: - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2018. The Law on Child's Attorney General. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government delivered an opinion. Does the Reporter want to give an additional explanation? I guess so. The Honorable Ombudsman for the children of Helena Pirnat Dragicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141751	Good morning, everyone, I welcome the President of the Croatian Parliament, I welcome all parliamentary representatives and it is an honor to have today and I have the opportunity to present the Report of the Office of Advocates for Children. It is the 16th report that brings insight and analysis into the state of children's rights in our country from the perspective of the activities of the Ombudsman institutions during 2018 and the recommendations and guidelines for further improvement of the position and rights of all children in the Republic of Croatia and currently numbers 800 000. We are behind us for 15 years of activities for children and the exercise of their rights, and we are increasingly promoting this action through direct cooperation with children, creating and building mechanisms for their participation and counselling. We feel that the voice of children in our society needs to be heard louder and respected. Children are the most valuable that every society has, and this brings great responsibility to care for children in the best possible way. In doing so, we are primarily directed by the inevitable Convention on the Rights of the Child as the world's fastest accepted international agreement establishing the framework and international standards of care and attention for children whose 30th birthday we mark this year. If there was only one message with which we want to send our children to life, then in my opinion it should be the one about the importance of fulfilling the promises we made to them as a responsible state and becoming a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. For what we know as adults, words that do not follow deeds remain empty promises. And when we do not keep our promises and words, children lose confidence in us adults and the older they expect to change for the better in the present and the future. This shows the results of research on the participation of children in the education and education system which the office designed, financed and conducted in cooperation with the professional academic community during 2017 and 2018 and 2700 primary school and secondary school children participated in the study. According to the results of this study, children believe that they are not sufficiently involved in making decisions on issues they face daily in their schooling, stressing that the power of decision is still in the hands of adults in the most part while their inclusion remains only at the formal level. The loss of children’s trust and hopelessness that arises at a child’s age should give us great concern and encouragement to urgent changes. It is our responsibility for adults to correct the situation and to restore our children’s trust and hope as soon as possible. In the past, i.e. the past and over the past 15 years, it has been shown that the work of the institution for the protection of children’s rights is growing in parallel with an increase in awareness of the importance of protecting children’s rights in society. The effective child rights protection mechanism rests on strong, independent institutions for the monitoring and protection of rights and on the agility of children's rights holders. With the aim of strengthening the participation of children in the work of our office, I am particularly proud that the new Rules of Procedure on the work of counselors for children has been built in and officially confirmed the participation of children through a network of young advisors as an advisory body for children. I thank the young advisers and on this occasion for the contribution and direction of the office's initiatives during 2018. I believe that by doing so, we have sent an important message to our children about how much we care and how important they are to us. The Court of Justice's report on children for 2018 shows the activities of the Ombudsman institution through a number of chapters, through the monitoring of individual infringements of children's rights, the work of a network of young advisors, proposals to build a complete system of protection of children's rights towards isolated areas of protection of children's rights, recommendations by the Ombudsman for children, the participation of offices in the design of regulations, the launch of research on children, tours of children's institutions, etc., meetings, talks and cooperation with children, and other activities in the protection and promotion of children's rights, including international cooperation and activities of regional and central offices. Due to the limited time in this presentation, I will look back on only some of the parts of the report. During 2018, the office received 1588 new applications, complaints, enquiries and requests concerning infringement of individual rights of children. This has also been done in 748 cases which have been transferred as active subjects from previous years due to the specificity and complexity of the problem that requires multi-annual activity and monitoring. We also acted in about 1100 general cases. In addition to more than 2 thousand interviews, staff of the Office of the Advocates for Children provided information, instructions and advice in direct contact with adults and children in offices in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek or via telephone. Compared to the previous year, we note a slight increase in individual applications and also a greater increase in general initiatives in the work of the Ombudsman for children. Every other application or inquiry came to us by our parents, every 5 queries or addressing by institutions. We also received applications from other people, from grandparents, grandparents and other relatives, and we received 20 questions from children. Such division of questions and applications confirms the role of parents and adults in protecting children's rights, but also points to the undeniable need to introduce children to the protection mechanism of their rights and to encourage them to seek their protection. In addition, during 2018, we visited a total of 71 institutions and other places where children are staying, organized 25 expert meetings, conducted 4 research and actively participated in the work of international organisations and networks whose members and those of the European Networks of Advocates for Children, COPE Networks – Children of Prisoners Europe and Eurochild organizations, as well as achieved many meetings with children. In addition to hundreds of recommendations relating to the protection of a child or to an individual case, 54 general recommendations have been made during 2018 to improve the protection of the child's rights. We are concerned that almost 50% of our recommendations are not accepted, which can negatively affect the quality of life of children. However, by solving individual cases, therefore at the level of individual recommendations relating to specific situations, in most cases we find constructive cooperation with the institutions, bodies and institutions we address. In the same year, the Office of Advocates for Children made 125 individual proposals in the procedures of adopting or amending 35 regulations, of which only 22% were accepted or partially accepted. I note that our proposals are based on experiences and concrete situations in life, which we learn from applicants, and therefore we think that they should be given more attention to. A large part of the work of the office was also dedicated to the answers to numerous media enquiries on individual cases of child rights violations or the occurrences of child rights violations. The child rights protection system continues to burden many old and already known problems that are now being broken into new generations of children. In the received applications, the first place still takes up the personal rights of children, which largely involve infringements of children's rights during high conflict divorces. Parents who find it difficult to deal with partner relations, losing their child’s well-being from focus, with often insufficient support from the system in these processes, often lead to child suffering. Sometimes the situation worsens for the child through sensational media reporting on individual concrete situations. Despite the uncontested investment in the social care system, there are continuing shortcomings in the material, personnel and organisational conditions of the welfare centre, making it difficult for a child to conduct a comprehensive parental evaluation and to take quality, effective and timely measures to protect the rights and welfare of children in certain situations. Children in institutions are particularly vulnerable to a group of children whose development needs special attention and care. In relation to foster care, deinstitutionalisation and adoption, despite certain positive changes that have led to the transformation plan and deinstitutionalisation of social care homes and other legal persons carrying out the activities of social care since 2011-2016, there has been no significant reduction in the number of children located in institutions, which requires additional activities of all stakeholders involved. According to data obtained during the survey of the Office of the Ombudsman for Children, children and young people, located at the accommodation, organised housing and residence in children's homes without adequate care and in community services centres, it concerns the fact that the number of children in social institutions for children has increased without adequate parental care with fulfilled legal assumptions for adoption. This number was 74 in 2018, so 74 children compared to 2017 when 60 children were registered with adoption conditions. The results of this years-long research suggest the need to improve education systems, support fosterers, the need to work more intensively with the family after the child's separation in order to return to the biological family, the need for greater participation of children in decision-making and better support for children coming out of the system of care. The second place in the past 2018 was re-occupied by items relating to infringement of the rights of children in the system of education and education. And this year, the largest number of applications were observed in primary school education and the smallest application was high school education. There are also a number of applications in the field of child education with developmental difficulties. According to the content of this application, they concerned the availability of education and education, security, spatial, organisational and personnel conditions, the mutual relations between workers in educational institutions and their impact on children, the cooperation of educational institutions with parents and other bodies and institutions in order to protect the best interests of children and children with developmental difficulties. In relation to the preschool system of education, I stress the observed unequal availability of kindergartens and unequal criteria for enrolment of kindergartens as a result of insufficient coordination and mutual units of local self-government and individual ministries. The fact is that for years we have received the highest number of applications in these two areas, wasting additional activity in social care systems, education and justice systems. Violence against children is the third to rank child rights violations. Children in Croatia suffer violence and neglect in families, schools, communities and digital environments too often, with too often silent approval of the environment. Data from the project for a stronger family conducted by the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy and the UNICEF Office for Croatia in cooperation with partners confirm our statistics by stating that every fourth child under the age of 16 experienced physical punishment either mentally abused or witnessed violence among parents in the family. Family violence and neglect cause deep scars and consequences to children sometimes and for life. Therefore, greater efforts and investments in both prevention and intervention are needed in this area. It is also important to strengthen the awareness and mechanisms of child protection against sexual violence and exploitation, although extensive changes to the rules have significantly improved the legal framework for the protection of children victims of these adult perpetrators, we find that there is room for further improvement in the level and protection through further changes whether some general institutes of criminal law or other regulations regulating this matter in order to increase the level of protection of children from sex offenders. We stress that it has been observed that in the application of existing rules in practice there have been failures and inequality which is why they suffer the most vulnerable, so children who have experienced sexual violence and exploitation and most often from the elderly who are responsible for their care and well-being. There is still an alarming existence of frequent peer violence in educational institutions. Schools most often react to violence through one-time activities that do not lead to an improvement in relations or a reduction in violence. Despite the existence of a significant number of preventive activities related to the prevention of addiction and violence in schools, we consider them insufficient and point out that children and parents should be involved to a greater extent in creating these preventive strategies. It is certainly particularly worrying that online violence is on the rise and that a multidisciplinary approach is needed, as well as additional systematic education of children, teachers and especially parents about safety on the Internet and media literacy that should be implemented as a mandatory programme in schools and beyond. It is also necessary to strengthen the social awareness of the non-acceptability of any form of violence and the need to sanction it. In this respect, all resolutions operating in the child protection system against violence and neglect should continue to build inter-resorship cooperation in order to give each child the opportunity to grow up in a safe and stimulating environment. Childhood, this unique time of development and vulnerability for every human being is passing very quickly. It is therefore a period of human life under special protection. Due to the frequent long-term duration of court proceedings, ineffectiveness of conduct, inequality of judicial practice and slow resolution of complex family legal relations, children in complex life-forms of such complex life situations are almost growing up before these proceedings are completed. Therefore, in the justice system, additional efforts are necessary to show more effective care for the child’s best interests in all its decisions. Realising the right to adequate health care is also becoming increasingly demanding for parents and guardians, especially those living on the edge of poverty, but also away from better quality health services. The availability of health services to children is also difficult due to the absence of certain experts in the place of the child, the distance of the health institution from the place of residence and sometimes long waiting for a certain health service. Unbalanced availability of services for children and families in counties, cities and municipalities has been making significant differences among children since the beginning of life. There are particularly deprived children with neuro-developmental risks and developmental difficulties, children with malignant diseases, but of course all other sick children who are most often not available services that support their needs and development in the most critical moments of life. This is why additional investment is needed to improve the conditions and availability of healthcare for all children. Problems remain in Croatia, such as high risk of poverty, unemployment, long-term poverty, limited progress in improving the social benefits system, a worrying situation for young people who are not educated, do not work or improve professionally. Early identification of the needs and support of children at risk of poverty can reduce its negative effects for child development. It is therefore necessary to continue the implementation of adopted but additional measures to combat poverty. Despite the activity and taking measures to improve the position of children of minority groups, however, data on children of Roma national minorities say that these children are still among the most deprived groups of children in Croatia. Roma children do not have access to a whole series of services, mostly because of family poverty. However, positive examples and engagements by local communities show that the lives of Roma children can change in cooperation between local parents and service providers. I am sure and believe that it can and should work together to increase or strengthen cooperation between the Roma and the majority communities, and all in the interests of children. Before the end of this exhibition, I want to highlight one of the key challenges in achieving children's rights in Croatia, which is inequality. The quality of children’s lives depends greatly on their residence, or place of birth. Unbalanced availability of services for children and families in counties, cities and municipalities has been making significant differences among children since the beginning of life. It is therefore important that we all assume our share of responsibility for ensuring a quality life for each child no matter where he is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141752	Thank you very much. Here yesterday we also debated a lot with a special emphasis on violence against children and this topic is of course important and it seems to me that everyone here has, but obviously we didn't wear out yesterday, and today we have the same large number of replicas to expose the esteemed attorney, so we're going to take a turn. The first replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc. ... Please, for God's sake. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141753	Thank you, well-respected attorney, so yesterday during the debate on the protection of children from paedophilia, we could hear from the ruling majority's advocates that this protection is at the highest possible level, that nothing can be improved from what has improved, that big steps have been made, that children are protected and that in fact we can be a role model for solving this problem. Reading your report seems to me that there are still a lot of problems that exist in the legislation itself, opportunities to improve therefore further changes, and what you have also mentioned means that even these laws that exist do not apply in practice so that the situation is actually quite poor. Well, please comment on whether the situation in this area is good or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141754	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141755	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to thank all the attorneys of the state and the secretary of state, and here I see that the Croatian society lacks a culture of gratitude, and I would like to thank this occasion for all of the current attorneys of Ms. Matijević Vrsaljko, so here you are, as well as the Child and Youth Protection Department of the City of Zagreb headed by Professor Gordan Buljan Flander, but I think that in this comprehensive report there would be a place for you to thank and to say how much cooperation your office is with this polyclinic because I think that this polyclinic is indeed something that is recognizable beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia and where we have shown ourselves as a leader and in this sense to encourage the establishment of polyclinics in other regional centres. I have encouraged and I think it would be good, therefore, that within the framework of the county mental health services in public health services there are such services with children and adolescents psychiatrists and other professionals, so here is a suggestion, therefore, that there is such a recommendation on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141756	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141757	Thank you very much. My lawyer's colleagues, my replica is heading in the direction and I'm glad there are representatives and the Ministry of Education. It is that you would like to pay little attention to state pedagogical standards in primary schools in the Republic of Croatia where there is an extremely large number, i.e. lack of auxiliary technical staff. So at this point in over 9 hundred elementary schools in the Republic of Croatia, to translate this into a simpler dictionary, missing and technical staff, cleaners and cleaners, chefs and cookers and conditions in schools are getting worse and worse and on this side, amazingly that the Ministry of Education is ignoring this problem and does not allow directors to employ people, i.e. to replace those who have gone, but I say, the situation is getting worse and worse every day, and I would like you to pay particular attention to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141758	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141759	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed attorney. Every wound hurts, baby must be the most. I mean, in previous defense reports, we talked about a phenomenon, and today this phenomenon has become a reality, and I think we're late and we might lose that battle, which is violence on the Internet, that is, prevention from computer games. I am pleased that you have sent a notice to the 4 Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the Council of Europe guidelines, or a strategy related to the Internet strategy of the Council of Europe. So, I particularly welcome this, I believe that today will be the time to talk about such things because these are things that do damage in the long term, that violence actually creates major traumas, and these traumatized children today become adult traumatized people who do damage to society. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141760	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor's Attorney General. I wonder if you think, I'd like to hear your opinion, do you think that abuse of the right of the child and that is to say, violation of their rights if a politician or politician took a lot of pictures with children, shared chocolates, if children are waiting for the right of the child along the road to see this politician for two minutes or a minute, read stories in public space, read stories, that children must sing to him on his birthday, is that what you call abuse of children for personal self-promotion for political purposes, and do you consider it appropriate? Since this often happens in 2018, and we see that at the beginning of this year it continues to happen and that some politicians abuse children in this way, I haven't heard from your office that you responded to these behaviors, or, therefore, I would like to hear your opinion here, whether you think it's normal and that so Is he supposed to behave? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141762	Answer, Your Honor's Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141763	Thank you. I thought I'd be answering all the lines at the end, but here, this one. First, I'd like to refer to what Mr. Bunjac's parliamentary representative has to say about the changes...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141764	Ma'am. Attorney General, you have the right to report after each to respond. You can and all together in the end answer, it's your choice, but you can't answer a question, a single representative answers someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141765	Yeah, yeah, okay. All together, then I'll do it together. [[Intruder: At any moment you may have.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141766	Well, that's fine. Of course she can, but, yes, I explained it, but Mrs. D.A. said she would eventually. In the end, he'll turn around. The next replica is the respected representative of Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141767	Your Honor. Like this. I get PTSD when I hear we have laws, but bad implementation. So fix it. If a child is abused once, take that child away from your parents. They have some parents, they abuse the child and they abuse them, they're children in their homes and it takes only twice a year for them to lose their biological rights. Take the kids away. You have one group, they're Roma, they won't talk about it because they're afraid that someone will call them racist, but those kids are being abused. They beg, the king's beggar, you have here from babies to six months That's what he's afraid to talk about... [[Please, let's not.]] other violence in schools. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Well, school violence, punish your parents, like in Poland. Remove the sociopaths, if you cannot remove them, you have an exchange of prisoners, send them to Russia to Russian prisons. And we'll take theirs here. Simple stuff, this is just a moaning to me, and there's no solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141768	A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141769	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238. Representative Glasovic showed his hand towards this section of the assembly and spoke to the juzomboids. So it's an insult, you had to warn him, the man is in constant insult to his colleagues and in fact he is insulting, and his party is the entire Croatian public when they condemn yesterday the release of the city of Zagreb is one of the proudest moments in our history when we, when we freed Zagreb and when we switched, [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, thank you very much, I estimate that no injured Rules of Procedure.]] when we were at the end of World War II on the winning side. [[Intruder Reiner: And your time is up.]] So that's it. counterpart Glasovic and his auditors cannot accept. [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Maras, you are now violating the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141770	You're in violation of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Maras. I won't give you a warning now, the next time you do that you'll get a warning. What is the injured Rules of Procedure? I'm warning you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141771	So we're taking care of the kids here and not the Ustashas, that's what you are and... You care about the Partisans and the children, we're talking about Mr Maras here, about the children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141772	This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning, and now everyone will get a warning about who will abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the esteemed representatives of Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141773	Thank you. Let's go back to the kids. I'm glad you recognize one problem that happens in public space, which is a systematic violation of the child's right to privacy by some doctors who report on the condition of children after some injuries and about the media. And then I would read once again the really real position of the editor of the Free Dalmatia portal Marina Katusic who said: Free Dalmatia will not publish photos and identity of the monster from Pag, and it is important that you understand why. Their names need not be known and the withdrawal of the photographs of the one who has done them this unimaginable evil in the media will one day only make the recovery process more difficult for them. By not publishing his identity, we do not protect the bully but his victims, and on the other hand it is vital that we write about the case and investigate every detail of it. The value of the texts we publish is not to see a picture of a bully. I'm glad you recognized and warned the public and I hope the media will follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141774	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Varda has the next line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141775	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] I have a very short question for the attorney general. I witnessed a painful event, a trade chain when a security guard so a male caught a little girl in doubt that she had committed a theft. For the first time in public, I used my parliamentary card to intervene. In the way it's a male person, it's a girl without her parents present. I'm interested in what you do in such cases and how you actually educate and specialize these security guards who do that private service that you can't and can't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141776	The next replica is the respected MPs Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141777	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, esteemed attorney, respected representatives of the ministries. The report of the offices you run is a kind of cross-section of the state of Croatian society regarding the standards and protection of children and we are aware of that. If we compose this report with previous reports from previous years, then we can see improvements in certain segments, but we can also see some shortcomings that are withdrawn from the report. In the section on sexual abuse and child exploitation, there have been significant changes to the Penal Code, and we reiterated that yesterday. Unfortunately, yesterday we witnessed from the work of the opposition deputies that parts of your report tend to be removed from the context and trying to show that nothing has been done in this segment of child protection, practically nothing that is not true. In the first line, you had the opportunity to hear that certain inaccuracies were made and I urge you to consider that in your further address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141778	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Advocate, I have actually a question that will probably refer to this year's report, which means that we will have next year, and that is, do you think of responding to the education ministry's announcements on the rationalisation of schools especially in Slavonia, given that we have not received a clear answer from the Minister of Education on the abolition of some regional schools, because if this happens, children will have to travel and will not have opportunities for equal education, so whether it will be found in your report next year if those announcements come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141780	The next replica is the respected representative Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141781	The esteemed attorney, respected ministry representatives, is evident that there is no systematic approach when it comes to preschool education of children in Croatia, he is lagging behind, the child care at the level of systematic access and therefore children's rights depend on their residence. Since the birth of the child, therefore, we have witnessed the irregular availability of services for children, families, according to their residence depending on the county or unit of local self-government and the financial strength of that unit of local self-government. So the attorney general's question, do you have any information on how much kindergarten respects the teaching standard at this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141782	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141783	Thank you very much. The Honorable Attorney General, one question, you have touched in your presentation and these are health services, the right to all children's health services throughout the Republic of Croatia, and I can give an example from my region, in the Cetina region, instead of having four pediatricians, we have only one pediatrician because one person has left, one doctor on sick leave with the fact that the pressure on that doctor is now being put on daily by 300 children, waiting in line, they have to delay systematic checks, simply those children have no health care due to the care of both Split-Dalmatia County and so does the Health Ministry. So I'd like to ask you, because you've only been newly elected to visit 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia who have no care and help these people, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141784	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney, I thank you for your work so far and I support the attorney's office and my staff, my question is from the president of an informal group called "Advocacy in the fight against cancer", we advocate and discuss whether today a voluntary or voluntary university vaccination against HPV should make it compulsory or include it on a mandatory vaccination programme in the Republic of Croatia so that at the appropriate age, your little girl and boys should receive a vaccine that would prevent them from developing cancer at a later age, so I ask you as a lawyer, if the ministry makes such a decision whether you will support such action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141786	Thank you. Now, will the committee's rapporteurs, the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? Yeah. Dear Ines Strenja, chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141787	Thank you, I thank the chairman. I welcome the lawyer with the deputy, the representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, meaning, for demographics, youth and family. I think it is also necessary to say the views of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which is also the parent committee for the report, one of the really interested committees, are discussing as an interested committee on the work of the Ombudsman for children because we believe that it is also within the scope of our committee. Therefore, the Ombudsman's report explained, therefore, an analysis of the state of children's rights in our country by giving recommendations and a course for further improving the position and rights of about 800,000 children in the Republic of Croatia. The report shows the activities of the Ombudsman institution for children, means that the monitoring of individual children's rights by means of a network of young advisors, proposals for building a whole system, protecting children's rights towards isolated areas, protecting children's children's rights of reference to the child's child's rights, participation of offices in the design of regulations, initiation of research on children, visits to institutions for children and other places, meetings and talks and cooperation with children, and other activities in the protection and promotion of children's rights, including international cooperation, and activities of regional and central offices. So, the very extensive material that we have obtained, from which we can read that there have been 1588 new applications, complaints, enquiries and requests related to the violation of individual rights of children, and this has also been done in 748 cases which have been transferred as active objects from previous years, mainly because of the complexity and specificity of the problem that requires multi-annual activity and monitoring. Thus, compared to the previous year, it said, there was a slight increase in individual applications, and also a greater increase in the general initiatives of the Ombudsmans for children. Every other application or inquiry came from parents, and every fifth query or address came from institutions. Applications were received from grandparents and other relatives, and as many as 20 enquiries were from children themselves. Such division of questions and applications confirms the role of parents and adults in protecting children's rights, but also points to the undisputed need to introduce children to the mechanisms of protecting their rights and encourage them to seek their protection. The lawyer is particularly concerned by the fact that almost 50% of the office's recommendations are not accepted, which can have a negative impact on the quality of life of children. In the received applications, the first place still takes up the personal rights of children, which largely involve violation of children's rights during high conflict divorces. The second place in the past year has been re-occupied by violations of children's rights in the system of education and education, while violence against children is third in the rank of child rights violations. Realising the right to adequate healthcare is becoming increasingly demanding for parents and guardians, especially parents living on the edge of poverty, and also away from quality health services. In relation to the health rights of children, applications and notifications they received, they referred to parental dissatisfaction by means of communication and the relationship of healthcare professionals with them and children, to the protection of children's mental health and the protection of children's health, to the protection of the rights of children suffering from chronic diseases, and to the children of foreigners with temporary residence in the Republic of Croatia. The availability of health services to children is also difficult due to the absence of certain experts in the place of the child, the distance of the health institution from the place of residence, and the long wait for a certain health service. Unbalanced availability of services for children and families by county, cities and municipalities has been making significant differences among children, but since the beginning of their lives. There are particularly deprived children with neuro-developmental risks and developmental difficulties who are most often not available services that support their needs and development at the most critical moments of life. Furthermore, in this area of child rights protection, applications relating to the refusal of parents to vaccinate children prevail. In the discussion, the Committee members reiterated the position of the Committee on the Need for Vaccination, which is also in accordance with the right of the child to health care according to the highest health standards in accordance with Article. 24. Convention on the Rights of the Child. Speaking of child health, members of the Committee of Opinions are required to intensify awareness of the public about the need for vaccination against HPV infection as measures to prevent uterine cancer, the neck of the womb. They also specifically addressed the problems and the state of foster care, pointing to the issue of custody that they consider necessary to update. Following the debate, members of the board unanimously supported the Ombudsman's report for children and proposed it to the HS for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141788	Thank you very much. Do any of the representatives of the government want to further explain their opinion? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Margareta Majeric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141789	... Honorable MPs and MPs, respected and respected counselors for children. [[Specially enabled.]] The report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2018 shows extensively the activities and work of the Ombudsman’s Office for Children during 2018, and contains all areas related to the monitoring of individual infringements of children’s rights, a network of young counselors, child participation, isolated areas of protection of children’s rights, recommendations by the Ombudsman for children, normative activities, research activities, visits to institutions for children and other places, other activities with the protection and promotion of children’s rights, meetings, conversations and cooperation with children, international cooperation, other activities of regional and central offices and the establishment and financial affairs of the Office of the Ombudsman for children. According to the Ombudsman’s report, in 2018 1588 cases were received with individual infringements of children’s rights were covered by 1857 children and 267 groups of children. Individual applications similar to those of the previous years were the most relevant to issues in the achievement of parental care, then to violations of education rights, to the protection of children against violence and neglect, and to health rights. The report also provided a statement of fiscal responsibility for 2018. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a detailed statement regarding all the individual allegations contained in the report. I would like to stress that the Government of the Republic is constantly working to improve the protection of children's rights, is ready to cooperate, seek a better future for our children, we are partners and defenders for children, as well as for all who work to protect and promote children's rights and all for the sake of the best interests of children in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141790	Thank you very much. Then I will open the debate now and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will speak to the esteemed representative of Ines Strenja. My colleagues of the Sagittarius, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141791	I thank you here, on behalf of the club of MOST independent lists at first I will say that we will support and vote in favour of this report by the Ombudsman for children because it is comprehensive and because it has really, really covered all of that, all segments of child protection that must be questioned continuously and pointed out and gave my recommendation. What I want to talk about today is the right to live with parents and parental care, that is, this part that is especially the same as the whole chapter that we have pointed out and said that we are still there, we are not well, that we are still with the way we treat children who are looking for our special care, the timely separation from families in which it is not good that these children remain, because of the very situation of abuse and total inappropriate parental care, we are still not good enough in Croatia because all children have equal rights and all children have equal needs but some children need our enhanced care and these are children in dysfunctional families, then children who are in foster families, who should be prepared in good time unless they need to continue this process so that parents are deprived of parental care and that these children are going into adoption. In particular, we need to pay particular attention to children coming out of foster families, leaving institutions where they were in children's homes because we now have a situation that these children are practically going out on the street other than valuable examples of some units of local self-government, I know there are many in Croatia but I would point out, for example. Crikvenica, where the home of the “Izvor” which last year had 100 years of existence, means the children’s home, which is the first in Croatia as an institution, fully dedicated to the adoption or fostering of all children, and all those children who are there today are only on half-day stays and are given a strong support to all families, have been coming out of this house for decades, children who were not cared about by the company but have jumped into the city of Crikvenica who has accommodation facilities to keep them in the community. So I want to say again, you must know that today in Croatia we have 2164 children located in foster families with 3.1.2019 are data but still 554 children are on permanent accommodation, of which 88 younger than 3 years old. This means that the Ombudsman entered some children’s homes and in 16 cases found children younger than 3 years of age for whom they had not started any procedures so that these children and had all the conditions started according to the procedures of separation and accommodation in the foster home, so they were not supposed to be there but rather the essence of the foster family or to initiate procedures to deprive parents of parental care and children of their best interests. Thus, several cases have even been infringing with the duration of temporary accommodation where, without reason, this temporary accommodation that was to go as a short-term fostering was extended so long as these children were practically more in a situation where no one was even interested in adoption but the most obvious example is visible in the case of children who were placed directly in the institution as a temporary solution to allow the CZSS to initiate proceedings before the competent court to take the parent's right to stay with children and to check daily care, after that, for foster parents or adoptors. So, I think that we do too little in the area, we do too little, on the basis of what is most important for children, we give our parents the right too long to really occasionally just report and thus express their concerns. Of course, we had the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy, where we had present judges, some of whom said, is not enough, that I have twice a year, that I have the information that the parent contacted, that is not concerned about the child, and that she was willing to remove such parents from parental care, while you also had, one course of action of certain judges, who, to the infinity, therefore, give the right to that parent, who is above the right of the child, not to lose parental care, and thus all the rights that the parent has, and during that time, is placed in the institution. So I believe that the plan, which was for the deinstitutionalisation of children, was also concluded by the Ombudsman, in this report, in 2011-2016, did not result in a reduction in the number of children located in institutions, and therefore the minister, who is indeed, we can praise her, has passed a new Household Act, which contained quite an interactive debate in the public and experts and all those who are interested in this area, the law has been passed, of course it will need to be improved a little bit more in some segments, but it has been adopted and a good and great step has been adopted and a new plan for deinstitutionalisation, transformation and prevention of institutionalisation has been adopted. I expect this plan to make a slightly bigger move in this area. Because like I said, too many children are in foster families, out of the public eye, and part of those children could really go towards adoption. In order not to be too long, I would once again, to send you a message to the public, tell you what the conclusions were after our debate, on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which are unanimously supported by all and opposition and positions, and in fact the result of what experts are discussing in this area. Therefore, they are the following, taking into account a large number of children with formal legal assumptions for adoption and three times the number of potential adopters and the number of children who grow up in institutions and the need to speed up decision-making procedures and take away parental care rights, we believe that in the focus of all legal solutions, regulations and processes, as well as daily decision-making and enforcement practices, which affect the child, the child's well-being and best interests of the child are the only secondary interest of potential adoptors, parents, foster parents and experts. When it comes to the protection of children without adequate parental care in Croatia, adequate protection and support of the biological family are needed, above all. Targeted interventions, planned and individualised actions, as well as ensuring a wide range of services in the local community, which can initially prevent the separation of children from the family. When it is because of inadequate parental procedures or temporary inability for parents to properly care for a child, the child should be separated from the biological family. We advocate temporary accommodation of a child in a family-shaped care through foster care, whether relative or not related, while providing adequate intensive support and assistance to the biological family, so that whenever possible and when in the best interest of the child, it will enable the child to return to the biological family. I think it would also be positive to introduce the obligation to consult children on the choice of a family in which they want to live, to give freedom to express their opinions, as well as to take part in a decision on issues that determine their lives, given their age and life experience. We believe that institutional accommodation must by no means be the first choice in making a decision on the accommodation of a child in an alternative form of care. The child should be taken care of in family forms of care, with the provision of a series of accompanying support services. So, 1.1.2019. 88 children under 3 years of age were in an institution. For the purpose of shortening the stay of children in the system, we believe that it is necessary to actively implement the rules on the conduct of adoption procedures and to publish all profiles of children, which have the fulfillment of formal legal assumptions for adoption within 4 months. of their fulfillment. In this respect, the new family law requires the preservation of all mechanisms of the existing family law relating to adoption and the classification of both the obligation and the making of registers of children with formal legal assumptions for adoption, which does not exist now. We stress the importance of the priority and urgent status of all procedures, including children, including those in the jurisdiction of the centre for social care and those in the jurisdiction of the court, with the ultimate aim of ensuring a permanent and safe family environment for each child, including adoption. We believe that the issue of protection of the most vulnerable children and families needs to be put at the centre of attention at the highest state level and to support the strengthening of the social care system and human resources policy, by increasing the number of professionals in social care centres and by generally increasing and financial isolation for this area. In order to ensure equal legal treatment and equal legal protection, our adopted children, as regards the protection of identity as well as the protection of privacy and personal data, we consider it necessary to supplement the Family Law of 2015 so that children adopted before the entry into force of the Family Law of 2015 are allowed to change the personal identification number, which has not yet been done. We believe that it is necessary to actively implement the rules of conduct in interstate adoption in order for children who do not find a family in the Republic of Croatia within 9 months. and especially children belonging to a group of more difficult adoptive children allowed them to find a family and adequate healthcare in other countries. We propose that we consider the amendments to the Law on maternity and parental support, as regards art. 36. so that fosterers who adopt a child under the age of 8 are also allowed parental leave for the same duration as adoptors who adopted a child under the age of 8 and then an article. In 43. so that their adoptive parents are granted the right to one-time financial assistance when the child comes to the family because it is logical. A child as a new member comes, as in any other family, that's not the case now. We recommend the development and operationalisation of quality and effective child monitoring mechanisms through the system and thus improving the way, collecting and using data to improve intervention services in accordance with the individual change plan for each child again to ensure a permanent solution for the child through care in safe and potential family environments. Finally, we call on the competent ministry to improve cooperation in civil society organisations by institutionalising cooperation and activities through associations implementing the education of adoption communities, providing direct services to adopters and adopted children in such a way that activities become part of the institutional framework through appropriate social services. So these were the conclusions of the committee on which both the two departments and the Advocate General were on, and I think they are something to be implemented and included in all the following acts that will be drawn up by our competent ministry. I've got a few more minutes. I'd like to draw particular attention to the issue of childcare. [[/Intruder: One minute and a half.]] So, as you know, I'm a foster mother, and eventually that foster home ended after eight years of a little girl and by adopting her, he never really asked for her, and it was logical for her to become my child and a member of my family with my sons. But speaking truly to the foster parents daily, I am in a position to have a major custody problem because they do not have the opportunity to provide the child with what is needed in the family. I would especially like our attorney to refer to it because we have discussed it on the board, and it is that some foster parents, given that the CZSS so interprets regulations have a problem when a child is to be involved in some extracurricular activity, when a child is to go on a trip, when these CZSS then ask that the special guardian who has this child is, and this is most often not the foster parent to ask for consent from them. And now, if that child is going on a trip next or in a day, two of them are going on a trip, if they don't get in touch with such a guardian, the child can't go on a field trip. If the guardian is a parent who is not taken from custody and is located in a foster home, then that parent acts like me, you can be happy that I let you foster a child, but you will not send him to English, that child will not go on a trip and I will not give permission to deal with basketball or football. And that's the problem. I think it's still One segment to work on, all in all, the report is comprehensive, thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141792	Thank you very much. Before continuing, we welcome the gallery of students and students of the Ljubljana Ljubljana Vranjanin from Zagreb. ... And now he will address us on behalf of the rapporteur, the esteemed Ombudsman, Helena Pirnat Dragicevic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141793	Here's my thanks for including everyone in the debate and for your replicas. I'll take a look around, maybe go from end to end on the issue of solving the decisions of the foster parent. I think it's a problem that the office points to constantly and that better resolution would be needed. It is that such issues or decisions of the foster parent are related to a child who is, therefore, separated from his biological family and who is located in a transitional period between a biological family and a permanent solution, whether adoption or return, that fosterers who play a very noble and very significant role in this period of childhood life should, may decide or should decide on the education and care of children in everyday life. So, it's something that should be interpreted so as to decide whether the child will go on a trip, whether the child will be photographed and whether the child will go on this or that free activity, it would be necessary for such a decision to be taken by the foster parent. Of course, in this respect is unequal practice and uneven in the area of the Republic of Croatia and we will advocate that here, interpretation is brought in a certain way. Furthermore, there was a question concerning amendments to the legislation, i.e. amendments to the regulations in Chapter 17. Penalty law relating to sexual abuse and child exploitation. What is important to say is that it is about the most significant changes so far and the significant improvement and improvement of the protection of children of victims of sex offenders who, behold, have entered the Penal Code. Of course, improvements are still possible and improvements in the level of protection of these children are still needed, whether through further changes to the general institutions in criminal law or through amendments to certain regulations, so we see that changes would be necessary in this direction. In relation to the contacts politicians make with children, it should be said that it is generally important to make sure that children are not used for the goals of adults or for political purposes. So any encounter of children with politicians is not a use of children for political purposes, especially if such a meeting is prepared in advance, as part of whether the pedagogical process when children are organised to come to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, mayor, presidents of the State, such meetings should be used in order to actually learn how to function in a democratic, political system and to actually get an opportunity to present an opinion on important issues for their lives. So child participation, the active participation of children is in political life is certainly important so that today, tomorrow, children become responsible citizens of this society. Compared to the reaction of security company employees in Dubrovnik, I must say that we are familiar with this case and that we are involved in dealing with a specific case but we also normally contact security company representatives and therefore employers and we refer them to how guards should treat children in a different way because they are children and how they should show a certain sensibilities in relation to children, of course, taking care of the safety, the obligations they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141794	Thank you very much. Here, you'll be able to answer more eventually later. And now we have a replica of the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141795	Thank you very much, Vice President. Madam Attorney, thank you for answering my question, I am partly pleased because I did not speak about the example of when children visit the Croatian Parliament, mayors or the Office of the President but I was talking about an example of when a politician, or a politician, goes to school and shares his photos with his other children, shares chocolates, shares some candy in the school's premises, is that okay with you? That we know how others behave. So if this is normal behavior then we others who are also parliamentary representatives, the mayors and the mayors will print our photos with their signatures and start sharing them in schools. Because we had one representative who was going to school and being expelled from there, rightly, which I justify, means they don't have politicians to do what at school, if it's not some ceremony or event or something, but to share their promotional pictures like you're a pop star. I'm interested in that particular opinion, and you can answer that now, is that normal for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141796	Thank you. Here's the answer from the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141797	I thank you for your opportunity to answer. So certainly not, it can't be that way, but I must say that in this context, I also see in this activity the responsibility of a school principal who actually has to take care of the best interests of children. So he organizes and he's the one who has the opportunity to say no on such occasions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141798	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljka Josic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141799	I would like to thank the chairman, and I would like to welcome the Advocate General to the Ministry of Demography, Health and Education. Here we have today a report by the Ombudsman for children for whom we have already agreed that it is quite detailed and through it is very clear how important inter-resorship cooperation is but it is also visible through the answers of certain ministries to how much effort is being made and how much money is being invested to improve the position of the child. I'll look back very briefly on a few figures that the Attorney General himself mentioned in his report. It is said that in 1588 new applications, complaints, enquiries and requests and that more than 700 cases transferred from previous years were mostly related to child rights violations in the area of family legal relations where unfortunately children are mostly victims of conflict divorces. According to the report itself, the largest number of applications relate to about 690 items where the right to live with parents, parental care is violated, and children’s rights for violence, privacy and neglect are violated. What we should certainly point out last year in the Attorney General's Office was received 3 reports related to infringements of the child's right to life and they related to suicide, consequent crisis interventions at school, self-harm. What happened to me was the 2018 Home Office Report, which is that five children were deprived of life. And I think that information is very worrying, and that leaves us with a big space where we can all act. Also from the Ministry of the Interior has come the data that more than 500 bodily injuries have been committed on children, some 111 of whom are serious physical injuries. These data tell us that by working together with the resolution ministries, we still have a lot of room to act on which the Attorney's Office itself points out, but also we ourselves as citizens who, like Varda's representative, have highlighted, we can participate and refer to some of the actions that are not good and concern children. On several occasions in the Croatian Parliament it was mentioned that digital society is increasingly affecting the psycho-social development of children, we also mentioned this in the latest changes and additions of the KZ. That is certainly as the Ombudsman herself said in her presentation, one of the biggest changes in the KZ that have occurred in the last few years. What we must stress is that this is a more severe criminal policy of punishment against the crimes of sexual abuse and exploitation of children. The penalties are indeed as maximum as possible for the KZ, but what is also important to highlight is that they do not obsess over the persecutions of the perpetrators of sexual abuse or that they do not become obsolete in the execution of sanctions against those perpetrators themselves. As I mentioned digitisation in which children participate intensively, of course it is our future and new age in which children participate, we cannot deter them from new technologies but what we can really do and that is what we can inform them and we can educate them both children and parents. In fact, frequent publications on social networks, on Facebook, Instagram, regardless of who publishes them, whether parents, kindergartens, sports clubs, as well as in the lawyer's report, can further endanger the privacy and dignity of the child and that is the place where we have to act, there is a place where we have to educate parents, teachers, teachers and teachers themselves and, among other things, coaches in sports clubs, but also certain public services which, on their websites, publish pictures of children themselves. And what they need to be instructed not to use the identity of the child, which is very important, which the Ombudsman also stresses, but those activities that children can do. In addition to parental education, we are witnessing that there are often some measures that would in some way reconcile those who are victims and who are perpetrators in educational institutions. I say this because we have been exposed to frequent media inscriptions lately, it often happens that an educational institution uses a one-time measure according to its rules informs competent services and often ends it. What should be referred to and there are representatives of the Ministry of Education that we should certainly team up and cooperate not only with each other but also with the centres in certain activities and in certain violations of the rights of the child. I know that we all here will agree that certain specialties are very little but on a straight-up basis we can do the same in a way to increase the registration quotas to certain universities. Of course, that's what we talked about here, too. I'm going to go back a little bit to informing the parents themselves about publishing on different social networks. Parents often do not know where the limit is between what they should, what we should publish about our children, and how we will violate the child’s right to privacy. That line is pretty thin. Therefore, this report warns that sometimes there is an excessively non-critical parenting use of social networks, which puts parents themselves quite a number of information about their children on social networks themselves. This has been seen to be often used and abused and the content used by children on social networks can also have a negative impact on their psychosocial development. Therefore, children themselves should be informed and educated about how they should be used. We certainly agree with the recommendations of the office itself where educational prevention campaigns should be carried out continuously for both children and adults, as well as to raise public awareness of the inadmissibility of violence against children, also for this purpose as I have pointed out before, I believe that the education system could also be more aggressively involved and more actively co-operated with the CZSS. We are talking about peer violence, we are talking about domestic violence, but we must also say ourselves that we are the ones who will actually be of our family if we can create a certain atmosphere of zero tolerance for any form of violence and build the very atmosphere of mutual respect and respect for our children and teach our children how to treat other children and other people. Here on several occasions, vaccination has been mentioned as one of the problems mentioned more and more in the Croatian public. We have witnessed various vaccination campaigns, and I believe that although many thematic sessions have been held in this high home, we need all a session at one table and a very healthy start to talk about it, do not argue on the principle of who knows more or who knows less, the profession has made it very clear. The World Health Organization has also expressed its opinion and I am glad that the Ombudsman’s Office has come forward on this matter. Whether we put certain vaccines in the vaccination calendar or not, it will certainly be the subject of the next debate, but what we should certainly enable our children, it is that they have a healthy, quality and dignified life and that their childhood must not harm anything. Thank you. Of course, the HDZ Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141800	Thank you very much. Next is GLAS and HSU's Club of Representatives, in a name to be spoken by respected representative Nada Turina Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed assistants for the children, colleagues from the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have before us the Office of the Ombudsman for Children and in fact an opportunity to talk about all the problems related to the rights of the child in the Republic of Croatia and about what the attention has been drawn to in this very large report but also in general related to certain attitudes and political attitudes, as well as political attitudes in relation to the issue of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia. The GLAS and HSU Club will support this report, we believe that it is very detailed, comprehensive, it was already a preliminary debate on whether it is necessary to present in this scope data or to present the work of the office itself, we are inclined to show extensively the work of the office or to show extensively and details of the state of affairs since such a single report is actually a very useful tool for the activities of all those in the system in the Republic of Croatia who are in charge of caring for children's rights and without concrete and detailed information about it, of course we consider that it is not possible and in one place you have such a quality and detailed state of affairs, we think that it is extremely valuable, especially when we consider that the office at least as valuable, even as it is engaged in all the tasks that are legally in its powers, it is not possible to cover absolutely everything that is happening in society and it is of course and much, of course, which is not covered by the process and the regulation that has not been brought up to them. Unfortunately, this is certainly the case and already the numbers mentioned in this report and already the colleagues in the previous discussions have pointed out, so almost 1600 new cases, or applying to the attorney's office plus the particular backlog, let's call it 750 from the previous period, talking about how big a problem it is, that we can't actually be satisfied with such a situation because obviously the number of applications and cases is still talking not only about the high awareness that there is a need to report what must be a certain share of these total numbers and that's good, so it means that people are aware because the most of the application is of course from the parents, the higher the application and the community, or from where children's rights are being violated, means that people are aware that they can change things in a way that they report to the competent institution in this case, the Office for children, and that it still moves things forward and it does seem good in real cases for children, however, that they are also see that they have 50% of real interventions that they have a right to have a right to have a right to intervene. This may also be a key point in whether we can move things more significantly towards a better perspective to insist that the bodies addressed by the Ombudsman must respect or satisfy, in a larger percentage of half, the recommendations made by the Ombudsman. It is one way to fix these figures, or reduce the number of cases, problems, violations of children’s rights in society. So the most violation of the rights of children or of the cases or problems that are reported comes from parents, unfortunately the most of these are related to the achievement of parental care when divorce is unfortunately conflicting and where parents do not understand the position of their children and the damage they do to them, they go into such conflicts that they cause enormous harm to their own children, where unfortunately our courts are neither teamed up enough nor I would say that these problems would be resolved faster so that if problems were already to be solved in courts to be resolved as quickly as possible, of course and painlessly, that is, if decisions were made in due time. There should be thanks to the office which is engaged and which is trying to focus on everything being expensive and more high-quality, but with the actual state of affairs we cannot be satisfied and I think that the competent ministries present here today with their representatives must, when it comes to children, say, squeeze a little harder and try really to react faster than when they are, let's say some other subjects, although they should not, in principle, be able to make differences through the police or through the judiciary when it comes to human processes and where they depend in some way, human fates and human lives on these processes. What is also apostrophe in this report is like something that is visible about the health rights of children. I must say that this institution is our highest legislative institution, HS has spoken on several occasions about this issue, whether through the thematic sessions of the Committee on Health or thematic sessions of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and some other committees in HS, if we speak in a broader sense in this issue, they have engaged in promoting non-violence in some way, promoting healthy life, that this healthy life must be particularly related to children, to promote timely vaccination and vaccination of our children. Unfortunately, we have indicators that tell us that exactly the opposite processes are taking place and every engagement from the HS position is extremely valuable as a message to our parents, our citizens, our voters, if we want to, we can say that we have reached standards in health care and especially regarding children should be respected, that we do not say that opposition to these standards should and that most people in Croatia are inclined to sanction them. Here, one of the most recent examples is Germany, where after intense debates in public space, and the tendency to increase the number of patients who are suffering from non-vaccination of children, it does harm the children and that they have decided to sanction their parents and these fines that are very high. I'm not going to say that we as a political option are advocates of such drastic punishment, but that something will have to be done is a fact and I think that colleagues from the Office of the Advocates for Children should also be actively involved in promoting vaccination or in drawing attention to parents that this must be done and that this is in the best interests of their children. So the state of children's rights in some way maintains and the state of the overall state of society, with it, of course we can't be completely satisfied, there are some minor shifts, but not enough, it seems we're not even able to track everything that comes through new technologies as a potential danger to children's rights, so here, it turns out really high-quality and attention to how many problems we have with so-called. Cyber violence where we have to admit that a good part of our parents is not able to control their children or is in fact able to monitor everything that is a potential threat to the use of different technology that can leak certain information, suggest certain behaviors that are not good or not socially acceptable and do not know how to actually oppose it because they do not even know the channels in which children come to such content, which means that they will have to invest much more in education, prevention, which other colleagues have spoken of. Especially in the education system, reach all schools, I think it is one of the systems in the Republic of Croatia that can be used and most usable in a possible system that will prevent children's rights from being violated in Croatia, that unnecessary violence occurs, that can be opened and enabled by channels that come to children easily, how children are available, especially today at a time when almost all children are using cell phones, smartphones, iPhones and other tablets, computers and everything else they use, which, of course, we are not against using, but we need to know that these channels and potentially great danger to them. Violence generally towards children from the elderly but also peer violence is a major problem, we know that children are learning everything that they learn from community behavior, in fact, people learn their whole lives, but children learn from the earliest age, in a way that they actually mimic the elderly. Obviously, according to the numbers present in the report, but not only in this report, but in other reports dealing with problems, we can't be satisfied with numbers, so violence is on the rise. If we accept the fact that children imitate older ones, means that they learn from the society in which they live, first of all from parents, then from, from a slightly wider community, a class, a group in which they are as children, which means that society has a big problem and that we have to and we will have to engage more seriously and by example show the younger ones what society we want and what society is our goal. And our goal is to have zero tolerance for violence. Therefore, full support to all those who participate in the fact that children's rights in the Republic of Croatia are not being violated, i.e. as little as possible, in this particular case in the Advocate's office and in this regard support for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141802	I would like to thank my dear colleague Turina Djuric for the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Sabina Glasovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected lawyers with co-workers, respected ministry representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. In 2018, we have done so all these years, we have never questioned any rare, objective images, state of children's rights in Croatia, not a single line, any recommendations for improving these same rights, regardless of who was the Ombudsman, or the children's defender. We don't mind your reports being extensive, unlike the government. We think it is good for the Croatian Parliament, through the board, but also through the plenary session, to get a detailed but detailed insight into the state of children's rights in Croatia, so whoever wants to read all 300 pages, 200 and some pages of the complete report. Whoever has a little less time to read it in short, and whoever doesn't want to deal with this problem or is not interested in it, let's just skip it, I don't see anything controversial about it. What can be read from your report, if we combine it with these 16 years of the existence of an attorney's office in Croatia, then we can actually see that the state of the application is much better than we had in 2005. There are huge differences in the number of individual applications, in the number of initiatives launched, which nevertheless tells us that she felt in fact the importance of the Convention on the Protection of Children's Rights, but also justified in fact, the need for the existence of an attorney's office for children in the Republic of Croatia. What we can see is that we are actually powerless, or we are losing battle in most areas, violations of children's rights, because the number of applications, as you would say, is not reducing. For example, in the part of the suspension, i.e. the endangerment of educational rights, it is even one of those 10 in that table, which, for example, in some continuity of war, has an upward path, unlike the other 9 rights, where we have entry pathways, depending on the year, about the periods we talk about and in which we discussed in reports in the Croatian Parliament. What can somehow be summed up from your conclusion is that despite the positive shifts in certain areas of children's rights, when we bind, we apply measures and initiatives and processes aimed at improving the rights of children that have been taken, i.e., missed. Unfortunately, 2018. continue to record a negative balance, especially when monitoring the application of existing rules in practice. So it is not disputed that our number of applications for violations, i.e., doubts about the violation of certain rights of children, but the problem is that 50% of your recommendations remain in the air somewhere. They do not touch those who should be touched, which is by the masquerade of the institution, which should worry about removing the violation of these rights and reducing the risk to some minimum. There is a key problem, and that is very clear from this first sentence. You further state that growing up in Croatia is marked by a major inequality, which is not being solved systematically. Care for children is mostly in the jurisdiction of local communities, which have different capacities and resources to promote child rights and, therefore, children's rights in Croatia depend greatly on the child's residence. Yes, unfortunately, in Croatia, what kind of childhood you will have depends greatly on where you were born and not only this right you speak of about care and children, but also education. Availability, social care, availability of education, unfortunately, depends on where you were born and then on the economic capacity and some kind of healthy environment in which you grow up. Most of these services, meaning education, health care and even one part, pardon, social care, and one part of health elements, but not to that extent, actually depends on the awareness of a particular unit of local or regional self-government and on its priorities to invest in certain projects. So let's say the children in Rijeka, all children, primary school students have civil education and education where you point out that it is necessary at the level of the state to invest systematically and children in the rest of Croatia do not have, have more in Sisak and in some other places, mostly where the SDP is in power with coalition partners and the other children do not have it. Also when we talk about kindergarten prices, kindergarten availability, important other content that, on diet at school, about a day-long stay at school, it depends on local owners. And you have units of self-government that do excellently, which are extremely important, important children, important men and children actually live in a much more favourable position than children in Slavonia, in some, in the back of Dalmatia and are not guilty of anything, is politics and complex different priorities. In which way we as a state can balance certain things. Here you have made a recommendation here that in some way regardless of what is a complete decentralisation of the education system, it is this system of early and preschool education, to equal the criteria of enrollment in kindergartens and kindergarten prices. I'd like to believe that it's possible in a system where we have decentralisation where units of local self-government simply don't owe it, they're not mandatory and let's face it, many of them don't have the financial power to do that. I'm afraid in this system of decentralised means the education system we won't be able to achieve this, I wish we could find some kind of model. Here are Slovenians starting something in this direction, their Minister Jernej Picalo is working intensively to ensure that their children in Slovenia have equal access to kindergartens and free of charge by the end of the term. And I hope that we may be able to learn something from their example and that we will manage to implement it but I’m not sure that it will be possible in some due time. Zadar has a good example of how it has secured the availability of kindergartens to its children, we have struggled for years with the problem of coverage in kindergartens which was about 70%, today he is 100% but there is a town decided to level the prices of kindergartens, meaning to lower those high prices of kindergartens that amounted to up to 1000, 1000 and some kunas, to equalize everyone to 500 regardless of going, to go to the state or private kindergarten and the city took over, in fact to compensate for that price and to allow all parents equal availability at the same price, co-financed, actually private kindergartens, i.e. employees and the professional teaching team in private kindergartens. And that's a good model. It would be ideal if returnees were free but at this point it is impossible but it is available to your children regardless of whether you choose private which was very often parents not available and in urban kindergartens simply could not enter because demand was high. Now that these good examples of Rivers with civic education, Zadar with co-financing of kindergartens, there are probably many other good, smart examples all over Croatia so that in some way they may be united, implemented in all parts of Croatia it might be ideal and definitely convinced that it would contribute to strengthening children's rights and some unity in certain standards. You point here and to the need, yes, when we talk about availability, please note that the announced measure by the Ministry of Science and Education on so-called "Students". By joining smaller schools or by shutting down certain district schools, this availability of primary school education and that of the year before school, which is very often related to the institution of school or kindergarten if it does not exist, if there is no school in that place, it could affect an even more negative trend in the availability of primary education in the sense that, of course, children will have to go to primary school because it is legally mandatory but this availability may be difficult and expensive to cost their parents and will be much more complicated to provide them with that right. You point to the need to license educational staff in order to achieve the standard in pedagogical and professional action, but I must warn you, I do not know whether you have responded to this or not, here in this Croatian Assembly of the Intent of this Government, or Minister Divjak, the law has completely excluded licensing and directors and educational staff who are also provided for in the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology adopted in the Croatian Parliament and have been in law and have already been prepared projects, it simply kicked out of the law in its proposal, the Assembly accepted it, so that it is not intended to ensure quality through licensing of educational educational staff. We still have a problem endangering children's rights to a religion where schools are deafened to the need to respect everyone's religion when creating a schedule. Again, I am talking about that case of religious science which, as an electoral object, has a special status in relation to other electoral items that simply very often lead to children who do not attend it and because of the glamour of the head of the institution, children do not have the content to complete that time of the first, second or third hours and are left to the halls, they are left to the yard, they are left to the street. It's something that's inadmissible and we have to, I know it's a battle we've been fighting for years, we have to find a way out of it. You also point to the problem of inadequacy and inappropriate and discriminatory content in certain textbooks, we see that the ministry on this issue has not yet done anything to continue the problem of assistants in the course, i.e. general positions, children with developmental difficulties in the educational system, which, with members of the Roma national minority, are certainly the most vulnerable groups in this part. Social care, I won't repeat, Mrs. Strenja Linic said a lot about it, the adoption procedure very slowly, we are here in 2018, it seems to me that 74 children have managed to be adopted, which is 14 more compared to 2017 or have obtained conditions for, no excuse, they have acquired the conditions for adoption. So more children than in 2017, 14 more, and only 22 children were adopted in 2018, which is 4 children more in relation to 2017. I think it's a really small number. And violence will be likely and neglecting opportunities to still be discussed in an individual debate, it is a problem that is complex, which I really mean one of the biggest challenges for Croatian society not only in the education system but in general, it is very complex, its visibility, its invisibleness, the need for continued adaptation to new forms of violence, here we now have social networks etc. and it will be important to work on it for years to achieve certain results. And finally, child abuse for marketing purposes. Please, counselors, here some colleagues have mentioned some unloved examples of child abuse by parliamentary lawyers, where the child's attorney reacted without delay, and this has resulted in certain effects to what we have had to see where she has not responded specifically when we talk about the president of the Republic of Croatia. We are now in a campaign for European elections, next year we have presidential elections and we have parliamentary elections coming, please, lay down the rules, give instructions and clear instructions that no one can say that he did not know. Officials should know, the president, the prime minister, members of the government, MPs, politicians, should know. There are situations where we're not sure whether we're going into that gray space or not, but there are situations that are clear as day. There's going to be a lot of campaigns, let's not let what happened in the campaign against the Istanbul Convention where children, that's what you mentioned in your report children were photographed to keep inscriptions I want to be a girl and not what, I want to be a boy and not what, kids, surrounded by adults, used in campaigns, on posters, on stands, so it's really not normal. They called on behalf of the children and, in some ways, attacked the children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141804	Thank you, dear colleague of the Voices. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and the SNAG, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141805	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected assistants for children with co-workers, and I also see secretaries from the government. We had an interesting debate yesterday in which we wanted to protect children from sexual violence in a way that we could publicly open up a register of pedophile. And here are representatives of the ruling majority, better said a few of them who were even present attacked us that we are the greatest populists, that we have no idea of the right, that in Croatia there is a level of child protection at the highest level, that there is no problem at all, that everything is very good and that there is basically nothing left to fix at all. So I'm glad that we have a written report from the Ombudsman for the children that I would like to read now, so I would like to ask those same MPs, if Mrs. Attorney for Children is a populist and if she has no idea of the right as you have accused us, here I am reading, quoting: “Our parents are speaking to us unsatisfactory by the treatment of a child who has experienced some form of sexual exploitation or harassment especially because of insufficient information, unequal availability of adequate support for the child and due to the type and height of punishment for the perpetrators. Indignation is often caused by mild court rulings, the release of pedophile from custody on parole or their release from prison after a sustained sentence, as well as the possibility of contact with children, which is why they fear violence could happen again. We are concerned about the insufficient protection of children from contact with persons who have committed sexual misdemeanor to the harm of the child. The fact is that there are no general rules prohibiting working with children who are perpetrators of sexual violence against a child and such a prohibition is prescribed only in certain specific regulations. So the expressions unfortunately do not yet guarantee the comprehensive protection of children. A particular problem is that in some areas there is no such regulation at all. The area of activity of the association of companies which, without any restrictions, can be registered for activities that include working with children such as playgrounds, workshops, camps, trainings and such are not subject to supervision, so we are reasonably concerned about the safety and protection of children. I repeat, we are reasonably concerned. We also point out the inadequate application of the rules in practice and worry about a small number of requested checks of previous convictions under the Sport Act. We are also constantly warning that pre-school and school institutions rarely carry out prior condemnation checks, I repeat, rarely carry out. Given the fact that 1566 paedophiles have been recorded in the criminal record of the Ministry of Justice, the competent ones are also invited to periodically check data on employees and other persons employed in the existence of obstacles to child growth. In conclusion, I would like to stress that a satisfactory level of child protection has not been achieved so far, from the perpetrators of sexual acts, despite amendments to criminal law, an appropriate legal framework for child protection has not yet been reached. We are concerned about overly mild sanctions, not saying security measures and an inefficient system of surveillance of perpetrators... Prison sentences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are these members of the Living Wall? Or are these the heads of institutions that you chose with your votes? So we have a complete gap between what MPs here are saying and what's really a state of mind. And that's that credible policy you've been calling for all along. All the time you want to show something in a pink light and reality is different and as we can see, again this register has increased its number. Yesterday we talked about 1400, today it's 1566 which will be next year, which we can expect 1700, 1800, re-speak about great successes, as violence grows. In addition to the problem of sexual violence, I would like to talk about another problem, which is very important, I would also dare say crucial to the development of children, which is also highlighted in this report, which is child poverty, child poverty, the burning problem in the Republic of Croatia. And it is truly terrible and sad to know that in Croatia and in this House we are dealing with all kinds of topics, except those of existence. When we read the media and listen to what is being discussed here, what was the debate here yesterday, what? About the Ustashas, about the Partisans, about Milorad Pupovac, about Brexit about intercepting e-mails, about intercepting SMSs, about elite prostitutes, all the media can tell. It's important to them, what does it matter to them? Child poverty? They don't care about Milojko and Millian. That's the subject to write about. What's Milojko doing? Open the media you have 50 news. Will there be any news of what the lawyer told the children? He won't. So why? There's no laymen of it, there's no... There's no blood, no bizarreness, no marginality, that's what our policy and our media space is all about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if Milojko sneezes, then right now, the front page, he'll be in the media. The poverty that this is a real problem. And this child poverty, the most difficult problem you're talking about right now. Because in Croatia, a fifth of children are poor, there is a minimum fifth. And where did poverty come from? Where did poverty come from? Is that what poverty is all about? No, it's the government's policy, i.e. the government, which implements poor economic policies, which allows for the catastrophic policies of the CNB, which allows for the insane and defunct criminal law for 8 years that has been constantly changed, but never to change it, because of the wrong situation in the judiciary in general, above all corruption and waste, in which all Croatian citizens are complex, regardless of which foreigners have failed, where we have the money to invest in completely failed projects at the level of the former Obrovec, such as the LNG terminal, where we have the money to pay eternally for multiple overpriced medicines and now we owe 2.5 billion again. Where we invest in a second pension pillar that doesn't exist anywhere in the world and generates the terrible debts of the state, all so that in the end people have an even smaller pension than they had before so-called. pension reforms. How, then, do poor children live in Croatia? I'm obliged to talk about it, and I'm going to call again for the analysis of the Institute of Economics no matter what I've mentioned them many times, just so it doesn't get to be said to be the claim of the Living Wall. So in Croatia today we have a situation that 2/3 of citizens must borrow money to survive the month. He must make money, they borrow money either by buying cards or by entering a minus on a liquid or by borrowing from relatives and friends. When they pay all their dues per family member, they stay on average about 800 kn. 2/3 of Croatian families, at least once a year, were late to pay for the directors, so they can't pay for the directors in time. More than half of Croatian families must work extra to survive, not to save, but to live. Half of Croatian families are asking for some kind of help from the state. Either through one-time assistance or through the Centre for Social Work or through the Red Cross or through Caritas, etc. unions, etc. Many families must give up not only entertainment and culture, paying bills, clothes, holidays, etc. but they must give up food, food. I can't eat what they want. They have to eat what they have. A lot of families are forced to produce food on their own to have something to eat. 20% of children in Croatia go to sleep hungry, if they are not full and 40% of parents, because, of course, parents will always be hungry to eat. In Croatia, only a third of children regularly attend kindergarten, a third of children, 2/3 children attend occasionally or not at all. Half of parents have no money to celebrate birthdays, no money for movies, no money for allowance 20% of children in Croatia have 1 or 2 pairs of pants, and 25% of children in Croatia do not have their own bed, no own bed. And these are the analysis of the Economic Institute. Why don't you talk about it in this House every day? Why aren't the media reporting this? Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna turn the subject around and I'm gonna go talk about 8.5.45. Now I'm going to talk about Bleiburg, the naked island and Tito. I can talk about it, thank God, I'm a doctor of historical science, and I'm gonna end up in the journal. I'm going to end up in a place I don't know about Telegram, Index, and what all these portals are called T-portals and B-portals. But speaking of these topics, while trying to find some solutions, it's all pushed under the carpet, it's none of your business. And that's your bad conscience, because you know very well that this is the mirror of your work. This is someone who's responsible, not responsible for this spirit. Not even some evil energy, for this is the responsibility of people who have a name and a last name, and who hide behind it forever, I didn't know, it's someone else's fault, I was just following orders, etc. And you need to know, that precisely because of this child poverty, because of this inequality, which is written and reported by the Ombudsman for children, children lose their chance to succeed in life, to realize their potential six years ago. He's six years old, seven when he comes to first grade, he's already suffered an irreparable loss. There is no longer a chance that a child, who has experienced social depression, poverty and hunger, at the earliest age, will ever catch the connection for children who did not have to suffer it. And already in the first grade, you see clearly who put up with it and who didn't. And then how to catch a connection at school, if there's no room for learning, if I can't organize myself, some activities for children, if you can't provide some extracurricular activity, extra education, etc. Now I've brought up problems, my time is slowly running out, but in an individual debate, I'm going to offer solutions so that we don't just criticize, and we never offer anything concrete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141806	I thank my esteemed colleague Bunjc, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141807	Thank you very much, Vice President, several times a colleague spoke contrary to Article 238 did not stick to the topic which is on the agenda of the debate, but later he adjusted himself, so he corrected himself, so I think here, this is a clear reminder, on my part, not on yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141808	I thank my colleague. I am aware that many colleagues and colleagues do not stick to the topic of debate, but I do not think that Mr. Bunjac has exaggerated, that I would have personally warned him, but thank you for your consideration and I do not think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and the solidarity of independent representatives respected colleague Maria Puh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141809	Thank you, Vice President. Respected lawyers with a co-worker, respected ministry representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing a report from our child counsel, which I consider to be definitely one of the most important documents to come to our House of Commons. Why do I think that is? Namely, only the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia is something that needs to attract our attention, because real, not declarative care about our children is our most important task. Many times in public you can hear from us that children are our future, but we must not interfere with the mind, that children and ours are present and that investing in children brings the long-term results of every society, including ours. Here is 2018. It was a jubilee year for the Ombudsman's Institute for Children, because 15 years of action have been celebrated and indeed when reports from the past years and projects have been seen and what happened, we really have to say that the figures are impressive. Many individual cases have been resolved, many amendments to the law, many initiatives, recommendations, and all other things that are in the area of the Ombudsman’s institute. This report, which we have received as well as every year very extensively and really contains all segments of child's life from social, health, education rights, from the research activities of the Ombudsman himself, is about the visits of children's institutions and, of course, focuses specifically on the position of children from vulnerable groups and on the very cooperation with children. The lawyer in the report already points out in the introduction that the results of the research carried out show that children think that adults don't respect them enough and that they don't care what they think. So the sentence that they are most often held and which they often repeat is nothing will change. Unfortunately, such an attitude is very bad and distressed, because if children are already growing up with one such attitude, the question is what kind of citizens and citizens will become if, in fact, in childhood now, they are in some way already losing hope that anything can change. In this year, what is particularly important is that we mark the 30 years of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and I think that we should use that year to get as much attention as possible, because as children learn from us, so we can learn from children. This anniversary, I think, could really be for better and stronger dating of children and adults with child rights with the opportunities offered to them and that they can recognize themselves when something is wrong and that they know who they can or should call. I suppose all of you have read the report at least briefly if not extensively and I think we can all point out that it is quite worrying that our children are often trapped in a bureaucratic system and that the status rights of a child who are the fundamental rights of the child and the procedures in which the child is exercising these rights are sometimes quite slow and inefficient and I think we should be much faster, much more efficient and much easier for the child to get through as easily and as quickly as possible. All should be guided by the best interests of the child, and the Ombudsman herself, in her recommendations, points out the same. The report also points out that the most numerous right that, most often, the child’s right to be injured is the area of child’s right to life with parents and parental care. Last year there were 350 applications and there were 518 children. Most of the time, the defense attorneys were talking to their mothers. In this area, all addressees are motivated by actually unfavourable family circumstances and are most often related to the interruption of family communities, divorce and, unfortunately, the inability to reach agreements on issues concerning the child or concerning cases where the child is a victim of violent treatment or neglect. The lawyer then referred to legal provisions and the parents to cooperation and the impact of the parental conflict on the child's life in the report. The system of social care through the social care centre is being transmitted in high conflict divorces and is often targeted unfortunately by dissatisfied parties as well as the public. The initiative that stemmed from the recent tragedy that took place on Pag pointed to an insufficient number of experts, expert centre workers and unfortunately not a very good position in society. I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the competent ministry and all of us at present seem to be the best we can but there is always a possibility and there is always room for certain improvements and we need to find a way to invest in experts working in welfare centres and all with the aim of protecting the youngest and children. In this context, I also believe that there is a need to further strengthen the special care centre in which special guardians work for children so that they can represent the special interests of children in any particular case, and not unfortunately for children to be dissatisfied and often conflicting parents and cases in which they are located. The report also pays particular attention to children in housing in the social care system. Unfortunately, there are a large number of children in institutions and there is a great lack of foster families especially in urban areas. Although last year and this year, the UNICEF campaign "Every child needs a family", dedicated to the promotion of foster care, we only record slight increases in the number of foster families. In this House we also passed the Household Act recently with the aim of professionalising and specialising foster care and increasing compensation, and I hope that this legislative proposal will contribute to increasing the number of foster families. By knowing that for a child if he cannot live in his primary family, it is definitely better to grow up in a foster family than to remain neglected in institutions. Of course, I don't think that institutions don't have caring professionals, they definitely work in these institutions, but unfortunately, you can never replace the family community in the way that you could. Further attention is paid to the protection and privacy of children. This society, social networks, fast information, we simply often forget that exposure to children is not always in their best interest and often children are actually exposed without their questions. We've already had opportunities to hear about our previous debate, so we wouldn't take too much into consideration. But just as parents themselves, sometimes they are not aware that they should take a little more care of their children, that they should take care of their privacy, of the protection of their children, and of the communities themselves, who care about children, i.e. institutions, homes, kindergartens, and primary schools. It is simply necessary to send a clear message that adults must be protectors of children and that any uncritical publication of children on social networks and in digital space can, unfortunately, result in major negative consequences for children, and thus, it can only be the beginning and source of abuse and decorations acts children's rights. There, among other things, would be a reference to the violation of children's educational rights, which is unfortunately, those rights, the violation of these rights remains in a very high second place and this says that urgent and professional, professional changes in the field of education are needed. We all know, unfortunately, that children in Croatia are not equal. The different life of children in the City of Zagreb, on islands in Slavonia, means that our children do not have the same opportunity, equal growth and equal development and education in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. And that definitely, many of the laws that we have passed and related to changes in tax reforms, with changes in the income of local self-government units working on that local self-government units themselves, have greater resources and greater opportunities to enable for their children all of what they need, that all have the same right and availability of kindergartens, that they have the right to an extended stay in schools, various extracurricular and extracurricular activities, and that is definitely something to work on. Until last year, our children were not even equal about the possibility of education, because unfortunately school textbooks had to be bought. Then you had a situation, that some cities, which had a better state of budget or chiefs who recognized the fact that they had to invest in their children, had taken on their councils and congregations decisions to buy textbooks, and here, by the law that we changed last year, since the next school year, textbooks will be provided to their children in the Republic of Croatia and the state will have to provide this right to children. What is also important to highlight and point out, which is among peer violence, violence in schools and institutions, unfortunately, this violence is generally reacted at the moment, the fire is put out, and we do not have a systematic and complete solution for these situations that are happening. I think that we should do as research has been done, maybe come up with a campaign, that goes to all schools, all kindergartens, that kids get into that violence isn't okay, that they should be tolerated, that they should respect their peers, and that children simply don't end up in one spiral of violence, which I'm afraid is currently looking at, reports and media inscriptions unfortunately, the situation is more than critical. Here's to my end, I'd just like to congratulate, the attorney general and her entire team, for 15 years of successful counseling and for you on your successful work in the past year. And we all need to be aware that we are responsible for the state of children's rights. And this report that we got from the D.A., we need to be a guideline, what we need to do, and how we need to go about doing everything in our power, in order for this society to really be a friend of the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141810	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pooh. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague of Ines Sternja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141811	Thank you. As I have already said, all children have equal needs, but certain groups of children may and may need our greater attention and have a greater need for our protection. One of those children is also children in high conflict divorces. So, what's a high conflict divorce? There are various definitions, but in modern science, those who take into account the position of the child prevail. So, according to the vast majority, today’s experts, they believe that this is a reason marked by the fact that parents fail to put their partner problems aside and build a parent relationship, but they continue conflicts in which the child’s needs, during that period, fall into a different plan. Of course, it is sometimes harder to leave partner emotions and partnership aside, but it must still be the task of each parent. I'm glad that in your report, especially that part of the problem and seeking the best interest for children in these divorces, you have dealt with it. Once again, I will draw attention to the recent thematic session on the need for the re-establishment of the right family centres that have been abolished by the previous government and I am pleased that the minister in this regard is considering a new law. Because family centers are places where we can solve these things, primarily at the prevention of all the problems that occur during family dynamics, during the course of these family-disturbing relationships as well as divorces that must end in the best interests of children. In that sense, this government is going and I commend it. Therefore, according to the department’s data, as many as 1826 children failed to exercise their right to meet and associate with another parent or to reach it in a range smaller than that of a particular judicial decision due to the manipulative behaviour of the parents with whom the children live. Also, 284 children were exposed to manipulations by parents they do not live with at a time when personal relationships are under control. So we had previously heard from colleagues of the Bunjec the problem of child poverty is enormous. So every fourth child of 800,000 children in Croatia lives on the poverty line or is poor. There are all these other aspects of sick children, foster children, but these kids go a little under our radar, and these parents, especially fathers, have a big problem and are looking for, looking for joint custody. And that's why today I think we should talk about them. So currently in Croatia 3321 is a child of divorced parents, 2867 is assigned to mothers, 325 to fathers and only 109 parents. It's a special interest for a child to have both parents and take care of them together. So the divorce of parents is one of the most stressful experiences children can experience and the fact is that many children and young people are affected. How difficult it is to say, in addition to knowing that every third marriage is being divorced in Croatia, there are increasingly no more traditional families in which parents have never formally married and diverged. For a child separation of parents in any case means that Mom and then are no longer together and that there are new ways to function in the plowed safety of the family home. So earlier research findings indicated the numerous negative consequences of parental separation for children, emotional cognitive academic social behavior. Many asked whether divorce is so dangerous for a child that it is better to stay in a bad marriage because of children. Today, research and our clinical practice clearly indicate that for children a good divorce is better than a bad marriage, or that what harms children is precisely a parental conflict rather than a divorce in itself. In fact, putting the burden on children of their personal accident on their backs by sending them a message that they are responsible for staying together despite disagreements is far more harmful than the divorce of parents who take responsibility for their lives and relationships. And we often hear from mothers and fathers that they stayed married so that the children would have both a mother and a dad, or a whole family, and we hear that others advised them to do so and that they felt guilty when they thought about divorce. That is why it is important for us to make clear and unequivocally emphasized, the conflict of parents and the particular testimony of domestic violence and the sense of responsibility for the parents ’ accident for children are significantly more harmful than would be the act of separation of parents. It is therefore important to understand that being a bad husband or a bad wife does not mean that he must be a bad parent. And if under quotes is a "bad" parent by some standards is the only mom or the only dad that that child has unless that parent is objectively dangerous for the life, health and safety of the child on which professional complex evaluations of several sectors are made and in the best interest of the child that he has another parent in his life. So sometimes parents seem to be hiding behind the idea of the best interest of the child in order to gain their own interest consciously and unconsciously. The best interests of the child include achieving the rights of the child and meeting the child’s needs. This gives the child the right, the child’s desire, and requires a lot of information about cooperation, expertise and skills in order to determine this. In the context of parent development, unless a parent like I said is harmful to the health, life and safety of a child the best interest of the child is achieved through the availability of both parents an active incentive by both parents that the child has a free relationship with another parent, protecting the child from developmental inappropriate information such as. partner or financial disagreements and parental cooperation at least with the child of important aspects of life. I welcome the Association for Equal Parenthood, they have been opening the question for the last few years, talking about it and talking about how much society, our society needs to understand what equal parenting is, understand and effectively solve problems that interfere with or prevent equal parenting, children should enjoy their right to both parents provided by the European Convention on Human Rights, and state institutions must start working for children and not against them. Thus, equal parenting enables each child to make a maximum quality emotional connection through both parents through all joint activities in the life of a child and parents regardless of whether it is traditionally male or female affairs. It allows each child to keep in constant contact with both parents in case parents do not live in the same household or when one or both parents for work longer are unable to be with a child. Equal parenting enables every child to have a smooth access to the wider family of each parent and in every parent a smooth access to all aspects of a child’s life. It enables equal exercise of rights and obligations given the parental role of both children and in a way that does not stereotype parents according to their birth criteria. Once again, in Croatia we have only 109 equally assigned parental rights, so only 325 is assigned, fathers, children are assigned to fathers and even 2867 to mothers. Not all those mothers were the best choice, not all those fathers were so bad that they couldn't get custody but I think it's a very large part of those children who could have both equal parents after the divorce that took care of them. And that is why I call for the good news that you and the report have also made it quite clear, I call on those who are responsible for the award of the meaning of equal parenting and decision in that sense to do a little more in that segment of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141812	I thank my esteemed colleague, Srenja. We move on to the next debate of respected counterpart Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141813	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, esteemed attorney, respected deputies, respected State Secretary of Resort Ministries. We heard a lot of praise here today about this report and about the work of the Attorney's Office and we all agree here and we saw it from the debate on the parent committees that your work is very important because you are dealing with one of the most prominent topics in Croatian society, which is one of the most vulnerable groups, therefore, they are children. However, we must be realistic that no society unfortunately, nor Croatian, as much as we are concerned with children's rights, protection of standards and in every sense the welfare of children, will almost never reach the ideal level of protection of these standards and the protection of children's rights. However, it is important and unfortunately a real picture of the world in which we live, and Croatia is no exception, but as a state, we as a legislative authority, you as the Attorney's Office, the rest of the bodies on our part, we all strive to make this level of protection of children's rights as much as possible and to make sure that this protection is indeed year by year from one report that the other reports really reach that higher level and that it does not remain empty words and floscule. I am seeing this report of yours, except as a summary of the situation regarding the rights and protection of children in Croatia and in general society, above all, that our goal is here, not just to discuss the debate, and I think it is less important that anyone here today will say in a debate from the MPs. In doing so, I do not reduce the importance of HS or this debate, but I think it is important that what I have already said, from the reports that the reports happen, these shifts that we all want, but we must be aware and the fact that it depends on the symbiosis and co-operation of your office with the resolution bodies, or whether there will be co-operation at an adequate level, whether there will be a healthy dialogue, whether it will be, and ultimately on the tenacity to make these changes happen both on your part and on the side of the resolution bodies, because we must agree that these shortcomings are the problem mentioned, and we will agree. However, the question is whether the resolution bodies always agree with this report, whether they are really flawed because if there is any reflection between you and your office seeing something as a flaw, and maybe the representatives of the resolution bodies don't see it, then we have a problem. Then these shortcomings covered by the report will not begin to be resolved. I think that, above all, it is important to agree that what is really mentioned in the report is deficient, that is the problem and in that sense also in a healthy symbiosis between the resolution bodies, the ministries whose state secretaries are here and sitting and your office can also achieve the same from the present report to the next report. As I say, therefore, those weak spots mentioned in the report are indeed numerous. The report is very extensive, almost 300 pages, so if we went individual now, we wouldn't be able to get there. So I'm just going to focus on a few of those that I consider the most indicative, and what I think is important, in my personal opinion, is violence. And that violence, indeed, in all forms and in all appearances. It is, for example, something that is from report to report almost soaring, despite all of our educational, preventive and other actions and by the resolution ministries and by your office, I think that as a society we still have a problem to stress because it is not just about physical and inter-executive violence, it is about psychological abuse of children by peers, it is about increasing cyberbullying, it is about increasing online violence, it is about cases that we as parents, and even if we are not parents, if we are guardians, so we can only be horrified that to this level of peer violence becomes worrying that we as a society actually have a certain problem that we need to communicate publicly without any unnecessary drama, without any drama, these are really facts. I remember the example of that girl who was brought almost on the verge of suicide because her peers abused her on the Internet because she lost her parents. It's an unprecedented case of cruelty that I think every normal citizen who feels one level of empathy can be very concerned and I'm aware, I believe and everyone here that no document can correct these, to put it that way, deviations in society. Of course we can't, because we live in such an age and the 4th Industrial Revolution is all speedy, we eat fast, we live fast, we talk fast, we're all in time pressure, and even parents, as much as we care about their children, and unfortunately, the children are left to these social networks, various media where all forms of violence are, here to say not all, but most of the forms of violence are almost acceptable behavior that is lovable, which is often lax and we have a serious problem and in terms of our legitimacy, what you have warned in the report, that we are still in the adoption of media legislation that will deal with this problem we are behind, I now know that there is one, we are going to say one action about this regulation of this media legislation, but we are still behind and whenever it is brought forward, I would say that we will be late and late for some cases. What I would point out, therefore, is the preventive role of this report because we are aware that your institution, the Ombudsman's office, as important as it is, is primarily for us to warn, to draw attention, to point out certain deviations to certain weak points, to establish a symbiosis of cooperation in removing these weak points, to communicate here publicly, and I would say that this is, above all, a preventive action, because you do not have these certain powers, unfortunately, and that is so in our legislation, that you would take concrete steps, in certain cases, and in certain cases, you do, and then we are entering the extent of your law that you are working on, and we do not have enough time for that. I'd just like to mention, one indicative part of your violence, and that's what you've highlighted in your debate, it's a multidisciplinary approach and an exceptional need for additional education of parents, teachers and children, of that triangle, when it comes to the line of violence, and I would really send a message here to everyone, that it really isn't just a declaration, that it's not just on paper, that it's not just promotional videos, but that we achieve that level, that it becomes a part of the class. Now, in order to make it a part of the class, this is Mrs. Crescent. Ramljak, as secretary of state, may later, in the break to discuss it, was as a certain part of the hours, class classes, was like a certain number of hours of information, any third model, I don't know now. Why do I say that? Because these forms of violence, we as a society, and we here in the House as a legislative authority, and not even a resolute ministry, not the Ministry of Education, but also the Ministry of Culture still haven't adequately responded, and in this problem we enter terribly quickly, almost carried by that wave, and we haven't yet set ourselves at the level we should. I'm not criticizing the ministry now, I'm just saying the fact that we're now in a relationship with this problem, and this problem is extremely fast growing, it's not virtually something that is unreal, the consequences are very tragic. They are tragic to the extent that the worst outcomes are, unfortunately, fatal outcomes. So from this whole set of problems and weak points and disadvantages, I singled out this, because I think we're even the smallest with our legal framework, so to speak. Otherwise, I support this report as a parliamentary representative, not only am I a member of the ruling majority, but I believe this report is well written. I support your further efforts in the work, and I hope that from this report to the next as many drawbacks as you have mentioned, agreed and tried to resolve between your office and the resolution ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141814	Thank you, dear colleague, we have several replicas, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141815	Thank you, Vice President. I heard a lot of praise in your presentation, and I listened to the Attorney's Office myself, that it's very commendable, of course, and I believe it's true, and that they do a lot of work in that sense, however, I wonder how much we all as a person in the Croatian state, help the same children, try to help, and help and OK to make it all better. We have as much as we know about 50,000 organizations, which out of the budget takes one substantial amount of money, and which actually do nothing, most of them, I'm not saying that associations don't need, associations need. But certain contracts, which take money, and they didn't order any result, I don't think they should be given it. We are in our Milan Bandic Club, we have started free textbooks, we have succeeded and the government has accepted it, they will have children textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141816	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Misic, the reply of my esteemed colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141817	Thank you very much, esteemed fellow on the line. So I'll agree with you on what you're commenting on about the attorney's office's reports. I'd say that commendation for your work actually means that this work was extensive, comprehensive and in accordance with the law. And that's what the D.A.'s office and her personally and her employees are expecting. As far as this work can be qualified as concrete, it depends on its legal powers, which I have recently apostrophyd as such in terms of limitations. But we, therefore, always all of us here and we Assembly representatives, need to send clear messages and that we, as a society and we as assembly representatives, contribute to what messages we will send from this assembly and how we will have some problems, including hate speech, including abuse and other problems that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141818	Thank you for your response. The next replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141819	Dear colleagues of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, you have mentioned online violence, in fact we live in a world that we do not know enough and it is a challenge for parents and children to determine which are protective and which are risky factors, therefore, the use of modern technologies can be positive for learning and developing certain skills, but if it is an excessive use of modern technologies and exposure to certain types of content, then unfortunately, there may also be negative prognostic outcomes. We already have in the Republic of Croatia, research that has been carried out on this subject and it is very important to speak here, therefore, since preschool itself, there are positive and negative sides, risks, but of course also positive outcomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141820	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141821	Thank you very much, dear fellow Cellic, I agree with you on the need for prevention from the earliest age. You as a person who and his professional activity are very close to this topic you know very well. I am pleased that in your replica and in previous mention of the child protection clinic of the City of Zagreb and I believe that this is a good model, which not only in Zagreb could be extended to all of Croatia and I know about their preventive actions, which are committed to the prevention of online violence, not only for sexual abuse of children, but also for... and other deviations in behaviour and I think that in any case it is a good establishment and is a good call to establish cooperation between the Attorney General's Office and the Child Protection Center of the City of Zagreb and all those stakeholders who can contribute to the protection of children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141822	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141823	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, you have stated that it is less important that we here at HS say about the report, that it is much more important that the institutions react, I fully agree with you. However, as the Ombudsman states in the report that child protection from violence is an extremely important area to which special attention should be paid and that children testify to the widespread practice of tolerance of violence, and unfortunately, adults often do not give them a good example, from family, stadium, media, to the place where decisions are made, or HS. It's extremely important as an example and as we communicate in HS because as long as we have a situation where the prime minister faces an MP, where there's almost a physical reckoning between the MPs and the parliamentary guard, it's something that we, just like the MPs, also with our behavior, with our hate speech when we talk to each other, you idiot, sit down, which we've had a chance to hear here, which we don't contribute to the fight against violence against children, but rather, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141824	Thank you. Reply, esteemed colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141825	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I think that in my presentation I have made quite clear the importance of this topic, and unfortunately, sometimes we have situations that in HS individual representatives, I do not say from which party, because it is not important here, children deal only from election campaign to election campaign and it is often an abuse of the topic of children we witnessed yesterday and in this way, not only to minorise this topic, therefore, the protection of the rights and standards of children in the Republic, but also the work of those bodies in charge of the protection of these children. I would like parliamentary representatives to show by their example that they care about the rights of children, that they care about institutions doing their jobs, not to show the opposite by example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141826	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141827	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrades, you are in your debate, but we all seek to bring the level of improvement of children's rights to the best and to the highest possible level, so we are also interested in this report on the work of the Ombudsman for children, but the report could read how asylum seekers are not present in the afternoon or present professional associates, so here you can comment on this topic a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141828	Thank you. Reply colleague Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141829	Now, while you were speaking your line, dear colleague, I'm looking at this report where I detected what you said and I remember when I read it. So, as far as I'm aware, this was a discussion between the Ombudsman and the MUP's report and their claims, and as far as I can remember, the MUP confirmed that this fact did not stand or that it was not a fact, but rather something that was not true, that they were present in the afternoon and that they regularly carried out their activities, and that they even cited examples of providing help and support to children in terms of writing the task, the visit of doctors and some other activities that children need to carry out, so I think there was one reflection, perhaps because of the discrepancy between the resolution body and the lawyer's office, which I believe will correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141830	Thank you. We move on to the next line, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141831	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, I will only briefly refer to the part of your debate in which you stressed the need for cooperation between resolution bodies and institutions and ministries, in order to achieve and achieve standards in protecting the rights of the child. In fact, if we look at the number of complaints of child rights violations, so, statistical figures, then we will see that the most reports, suspicions of child rights violations actually come from the circle of family, school and community, in general and I would say that this is one such triangle, even a more bewitched circle that requires a truly systematic approach because we can analyse and observe a series of recommendations by the counselor for children, but if we do not have systematic access to the cooperation of all resolute institutions and competent bodies, we will remain only on partial attempts, and we will be far and away from achieving standards in protecting the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141832	Thank you. Reply colleague Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141833	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bedekovic, I agree with you and I think that actually if we make one summary of everything, it's actually the most important thing that I said for a moment in my individual debate. If the representatives of the resolution ministries do not see something as a problem or have a different opinion from what the Ombudsman's office states, then there can be no solution to that problem because both sides do not see it as a problem, it is an elementary logic. So first of all, it is important to have one level of dialogue that I believe already exists, but it can always be better, one level of cooperation, and then it will ultimately lead to symbiosis in solving these problems. Part of the problem, I've seen, really, I'm a parliamentary representative, no matter how far I'm headed for the work of certain ministries, I can't tell you if it's really a problem, I'm not questioning the work of anyone, but I think that representatives of the resolution ministries in the conversation and dialogue with the lawyer need to come to a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141834	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed counterpart Ante Babic, go ahead
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141835	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, in your individual debate, you spoke about Silver Bulling and certain research, you mentioned some institutions, I won't quote them, but let's say when you look at those researches, they're from 2001, 2005 and 2010. when children are said to be in the Republic of Croatia, so every fourth child is on the Internet or every fourth child has a mobile device, so we can't rely on these data today, they have to be spent almost every year, given the mass and appearance of the Internet, violence against the Internet, video games and the Silver Bulling where every teenager or group of teenagers can attack the other. So we are aware that almost every child in the Republic of Croatia in the preschool or school year has a smartphone and it is actually an additional danger, one of the massive phenomena to be taken into account, which, by my court and the Ombudsman, should already have one, one more extensive report on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141836	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. Answer, dear colleague of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141837	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I did not specify any specific figures because I did not come to visit these statistics and indicators, I do not know if the Agency for Electronic Media was doing anything about it, whether the Ministry of Culture was working, I believe that everyone was working, but I do not have that data, but what I do know and I am responsible for saying, that our legislation still does not have the right shoes, that so disproportionately I say, when it comes to these forms of violence and here again I see a space for the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture, Education, so if you want and the attorney's offices and all of us, because the access to Siver Buling is a very interdisciplinary topic and some countries have come into play with it, and I have to say whatever interdisciplinary approach is still required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141838	Thank you. The next replica of a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, we absolutely agree that domestic violence is an extremely big problem that deserves every conviction and deserves a lot of attention. Among peer violence is something else, therefore, there are other reasons and ways to fight it, but I also agree with you that it is very important and what kind of message we are sending as legislator, but I would extend it a little bit to the executive authority, and especially to the minister who is in charge of this portfolio, among other things, the social security portfolio, which, in the case of domestic violence, tells you and quote: "It is so married, in those marital, personal and family relations, it is a dynamic that I cannot enter into, it is family." Is this an appropriate reaction to domestic violence? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141840	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141841	Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, you too have now tended to draw one perhaps clumsyly engaged sentence or sentence or reaction to say so, Minister of Resorna. I can only say here from the function of a parliamentary representative who follows the work of the resolution ministry, that they have now done a lot to protect against domestic violence, and if you have followed this topic you have seen that I am in this too, here my littleness has been partly included in the name of the HDZ Club, such a tenorous extraction of that sentence, which the good part of the media also conveyed, I do not consider anything that contributes to the culture of dialogue in Croatian society, but rather the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141842	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141843	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Members, I agree with you that children's rights and childcare should be continued and that those from the missing persons report that have been observed should be removed by the competent ministries and the state bodies. But I would like to point out here another example that there are also units of local and regional self-government, although the state pedagogical standard has been in place since 2014, in the towns of kindergartens where teachers, as we say aunts, are working with groups of 25 and 30 children in a tight area, without adequate equipment, without a real equipped outdoor playground, and that under such circumstances there is certainly great pressure on these educators and that they cannot work in such conditions, and not up to 65, and let alone 67g, and the leaders of these cities spend taxpayers' money on fountains, cars or illegal employment of their relatives, I think it should also point out that child care must be continued and provide conditions for working with children in kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141844	Thank you. Reply Dear colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141845	Dear colleague Vlaovic, I will agree with you that this depends not on the party membership of the local leader, but on his personal responsibility and empathy for the work he does. We have great examples, again regardless of party membership where local leaders are building kindergartens, withdrawing funds from European funds, we have a healthy symbiosis of local and state authorities, and unfortunately, bad examples where it's all the opposite. So, the attorney's office is here to point out, we're here to discuss, the local leaders are here to do their job responsibly and to show empathy to those children who go to that kindergarten and to the local community whose leaders, regardless of which worldview and party belongings are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141846	Thank you for your response. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141847	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. My respects to Mrs. Crescent. Advocate for Children with Associates and All Representatives and Representatives of Resort Ministries. At first, I need to remind myself that this report on the work of the Ombudsman for children is being discussed in the year when we mark the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and I will remind you that the Republic of Croatia has adopted this Convention in 1991, and in 2003. She's introduced a child counseling institution, so here we have a full 15-year-old behind us. The activities of the Ombudsman for children, here we have entered into the 16th full, so we are done, we enter the 16th year of action of the same institution and, of course, if we follow, therefore, the work of the Ombudsman for children over the last 15 years, we can certainly see the improvement of the work and activities in the field of child rights, and we can certainly see the desire to achieve, therefore, standards in this area and, of course, the need to start by looking at the Convention on the Rights of the Child, one of the essential provisions of the Convention, says that children are born with fundamental rights and freedoms, which belong to all human beings, and we need to repeat it every time because I think this is the basis, that this is one of the basic principles, and I would say that this is also possible paradigm in the action when it comes to the protection of children's rights. Although we then observe in this context, the 2018 report which we have before us, I need, first of all, to praise the report precisely for the abundance of data that we are presented with, from which we can therefore read and all that we are interested in in in each particular area of action. And so from the data we have, we can spot the number of reports, suspicions of breach, therefore, children's rights. If we look at these figures in the last five years in different areas, they tend to grow every year. However, this trend of growth in me can be interpreted twice, we can interpret as an increase in the general violation of the right of the child, but we can also interpret as strengthening and increasing, so, that is, awareness of the public, that things can be improved and that there is doubt about the violation of the child's rights where and to whom Croatia has an institution, which, as I have pointed out for 15 years, is already working to improve the rights of the child. We can also see from the report when it comes to the range, therefore, the application of child rights violations, then, we have already pointed out several times, so I will only briefly repeat, first of all, high conflict divorces, especially when it comes to childcare, the particular problem of increasing the number of children, social institutions, social care, housing of children with behavioral disorders, second place of harming children's rights in the system of education, education where we have one general finding, therefore, dissatisfaction in general with the school system, unequal approach, early and preschool education, and as a special problem, violence, therefore, in schools, again with emphasis on educational education institutions' reactions, most often as a single activity. And of course the third most frequent, most frequent number of applications and generally violence against children in the family, at school and generally in society. And now that we look at only the first three ranked situations, I'm kind of reading it out of forms, so these applications, one triangle, where we can view these highly conflicting developments as a problem within the family, an increase in applications in the education system, means a problem within the school and generally violence problem, as a society as a whole. And I actually see this triangle on the family-school-social relationship. And then when we look at this triangle, we can also view it as a vicious circle, which requires a truly fundamental approach for the systematic approach to solving this problem and reaching the necessary standards of what I am here about, which is what I have highlighted in the replica of my colleague, Petrijevčanin Vuksanovic, and of course, based on all of this, we can draw one general conclusion that the actual situation in the area of child rights protection is such, i.e., a mirror general state in society. And we can conclude from this data, that really after 15 years of the attorney's work we are increasingly aware of and ask ourselves the question, do we have the strength, do we have a way, for adequate action, in any case, I think we have, I think we have, I think we have 15 years of experience, that we have 15 years behind us where different governments, different configurations, I would say, in different ways, would act to approach this problem and reach the level of child rights standards as high as possible. Some of the measures of this government, which I consider to be a major contribution, especially when it comes to the availability of early and preschool education, i.e. the situation in our children's kindergartens where there have been many words, I need to stress rural development measures, therefore, and the construction of currently 200 kindergartens in the territory of Croatia. This measure, of course, has already begun in certain kindergartens, in some areas, specifically and started to build kindergartens. I believe that this measure will have a very positive impact on the coverage and levelling of criteria, and then also on the price of kindergartens throughout Croatia. When it comes to violence between children and violence against children, I generally need to stress that the Ministry of Science and Education has introduced a system of collecting data on violence in schools, with the aim of creating preventive activities, primarily to prevent violence, and then to improve, cattle training of all persons, who are in contact with children and who are working on this issue, and then to focus on sensitisation, especially parents, and then the whole community, on the issues of increasing violence against children and children. And I remind you that we have established protocols on the conduct of violence between children and young people, in the case of domestic violence, but also that we have a programme of activity, to prevent violence, among children and young people and in the past year in the context of preventive activities, this government co-financed 46 preventive activities in primary and secondary schools and perhaps how long it allows me, when it comes to the problem of professional support of children with developmental difficulties, and in terms of prevention, violations of their rights, I need to stress that this government is in 2018. funded 52 organizations and provided financial grants to provide services to 307 assistants in the follow-up for 321 students with developmental difficulties that provided transport and nutrition for 3062 students with difficulties in primary schools and also for 190 students in secondary schools and that is only part of, therefore, the activities that I had here had the need to highlight and, of course, part of this government's efforts to address the standards of child rights access very seriously, very, in a very highly aware way and of course, I stress that there is still room for much more activity and I reiterate the need for systematic access to the problem of child rights violations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141848	I thank my esteemed colleague. We have several replicas, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141849	Thank you. I didn't mean to pick up, and since it's easy to get into the migrant centres or not, who was there from the professional staff or not, I think you should turn away in previous debates, so I want to ask you if you know where in the Republic of Croatia the accommodation of children who find themselves in the area of the Republic of Croatia means, no escort. Children without escorts are children by the age of 18. age, which is either without parents or without a guardian who follows them during their journey into a better life, running away from war. So, these children in the Republic of Croatia are still being placed in educational institutions, so where are children with behavioral disorders. They are not located in special institutions where they would have available medical psychological support in languages that they understand, nor are they located in children's homes without parental care, but in correctional homes, such as Ivanec, such as Dugava and such things, so to speak... That's how we treat ourselves as a Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those kids went through our country. Now there are some fewer of them, but those children are still not adequately taken care of in the Republic of Croatia. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] That's the current situation. [[Intruder: I thank the esteemed...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141850	...a colleague of Ines Strenja. Answer, dear colleague Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141851	Thank you very much, colleague, for turning your attention here on this matter. I will only, of course, be very sensitive and that it is also necessary in this area, therefore, to respond adequately and I will just point out that a new Social Care Act is under way in January 2020. which, among other things, will be more comprehensively regulated and the issue of admission to the assessment and accommodation of children without escorts, and, of course, in line with EU guidelines and also the issue of the protocol on treatment of children without escorts, which prescribes reception and assessment points, is whether and all with the aim of comprehensive protection and integrated access to children without escorts Anyway, thank you for... [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141852	I thank my esteemed colleague Bedekovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141853	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Bedeković, could you happen to be the principal of kindergarten, school or owner of a playground at a workplace that will come in regular regular contact with children, to hire a person without checking in the criminal record? I don't think it can happen to you, it can't happen to me either, we often hear that they're bad laws, and I'm stressing yesterday and today that this isn't a bad regulation, and we've stayed in that topic since yesterday, so, and this topic is also about the attorney's work and her comments, it's not always bad regulation, sometimes it's about personal responsibility or better to say no responsibility and cripplingness, and maybe the indifference of some individuals. So it's very important to the law, but it's an important and human factor because when something happens, it's usually too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141854	Thank you. Answer from my colleague, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141855	Of course, colleagues of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, thank you and for this replica, thank you for paying attention to this problem as well. Of course, the human factor is the key to everything and that the human factor is always crucial, and when it comes to the personal responsibility of the individual at any level of the system to work and at any leading position to find, therefore, whether it is a playroom, kindergarten, elementary school, high school, college, anywhere by vertical, whether it's educational or any other system, so, first of all, personal responsibility in the first place and in addition, awareness of everything that can happen if, as you say, and I will also use the collective term creamy approaches to the tasks that they have given us, and especially when it comes to what you have said, which you have said, and I will also be used to the collectively expressive approach to the tasks that you have given us, So, the selection of frames for working with children. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141856	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141857	Thank you. Dear Representative Bedekovic, you have referred to the government's opinion, which is in fact one way a report on everything the ministries are doing. I see here, therefore, that all these partners are on the same path and that in synergy we can improve children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, and how important this area is, there is enough just mentioned, therefore, that there are five ministries that are actively involved in the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children, so it shows on the one hand the importance, but also the complexity of Inter sectoral cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141858	Thank you. Answer, colleague Bedeković-
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141859	Of course, dear colleague, I reiterate what I have highlighted in the replicas, and then in the debate, the need, therefore, for joint action and systematic approach, which is the role of the Ombudsman for children among other issues, giving recommendations and warning of everything that can happen if we do not take care of this and, of course, in that sense, and therefore, from that point of view the government shows how much this government, therefore, respects the opinion of the Advocates and how much, indeed, it does responds to everything that the Ombudsman institution shows for children and just as much as it systematically contributes to raising standards. Achieving children's rights in the Republic of Croatia. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141860	I thank my colleague Bedekovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141861	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bedeković, you mentioned in your debate a part of a very extensive, of course, report that must be so, the part that concerns and talks about children with developmental difficulties, I know that you speak primarily from your position and professional, of course, and from this one, but as chairman of a committee that is in charge right now and when talking about children with developmental difficulties, especially in schools. But what I'd like to draw your attention to, that's the fact that for the past 2 years, you've mentioned among other things how much this government has been working for the benefit of children, but this government has already been 2. has not appointed the Management Board for Early Intervention, among other things, co-ordinated the work of different ministries, but also the Ombudsmans themselves for children, so I would mention that, I will ask that later, of course Attorney General, but here's your comment. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141862	Answer, dear colleague Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141863	I've noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141864	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, at the very beginning, I'm going to say that the child counsel is authorized to warn, propose and make recommendations. Accordingly, we should look at this report on her work and at the very beginning before I go to the main part of my debate, there have been questions about the role and photographing and meeting with the children by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Croatia, unless it is a campaign, I do not see that this would be any problem given the function of the person concerned, of course, that during the pre-election campaign there must be no abuse of children, therefore, using children and I welcome your initiative and calling for all candidates for elections for the European Parliament to join, therefore, the "Glasy for Children" campaign, i.e. to become champions in the right children. I think it's a very important topic to discuss, but, of course, it's a child's rights issue. I will, therefore, look back at the problem of addiction, if we look at the report of addiction 21 times, I should be pleased with the fact that I'm dealing with the problem of addiction, so in that context and I'm going to talk, so, what you've stated is that... 43 We believe that, in the educational system in the prevention of addiction, more attention should be paid to prevention of addiction to computer games, there have already been speeches, therefore, in the Child Protection Center of the City of Zagreb and on your part, to establish such polyclinics at least in regional centres, so, Rijeka, Split and Osijek and, as I have mentioned before, therefore, in the county public health services there will be mental health services and prevention and extra-patient treatment of addiction and some recommendation that would be good for me that in every county institution there are teams that will in principle be a juvenile psychiatrist, because in fact when we talk about mental health problems in people younger than 18 years, there is a large majority of the word on prevention and, of course, if prevention and if quality care is related to mental health in 18. The incidence of mental disorders in adults will then be lower. Here I will take a brief look at, therefore, the national strategy against domestic violence in the family for the period 2017 to 2022 relating to the prevention of domestic violence, which this government, or the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, is therefore proposing, and this is related to the implementation of school preventive programmes developed in the school curricula and the annual plan and school work programme. The key to the prevention of school violence and the effectiveness of the programme is to focus on risk factors and on the development of social skills in children and young people, and on the development of their attitudes and values. Significantly, therefore, this coordinated action between schools, parents and students, as well as all competent authorities, and of course, is the importance of the prosecutor’s office for children, which will also reduce the incidence of unacceptable school behaviour. They are mentioned, therefore, and individual situations related to the opening of Casinos near the primary school in Rijeka, I absolutely support your initiative and the necessity to amend both the law and the sublegal acts or regulations of necessity, therefore, that Casino or Automatclub must be at least 500 m away from school. There is State Secretary Margareta Majarić, she will probably remember the situation when the School of Classical Ballet in the City of Zagreb was supposed to be opened inside the Shopping Centre where, in fact, we prevented it in the only way because there was Casino and so that however, the School of Classical Ballet was not moved to the Shopping Centre. It seems to me sometimes, and that is why it is important that you have warned that the responsible persons from the Ministry of Finance do not see this very problem, and I think that they will definitely need to change the legislation and regulations to make it clearly limited. As for, therefore, other equally important initiatives that you mention, therefore, should be mentioned activities and NGOs, such as, therefore, the League for Prevention of Dependence from Split, as well as the Community Meeting, the project Don't be a robot about the addiction of the modern age, so I commend this comprehensive report and I want success, therefore, in the coming period. You have only begun your mandate along with your team, from what can be read from the report, and I believe that much has not yet been stated, it is a quality piece of work and that the attorney's office for children makes quite a contribution to the development and improvement of children's rights in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141866	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. We have replicas, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141867	Thank you, Vice President. My friend Cellic, there are two things, so I'm going to try it this fast, so the first one is, the first is about the media appearance of officials along with children. The lawyer even mentioned in her report that she was acting on the application of a photo of the child in the media with a famous person in political life and actually sent a warning, so she is aware that actually using children for any purpose by officials, politicians, is not good because we cannot know first of all what purpose it is used for, and on the other hand, the child only, therefore, does not express his, we know that before 18. can't even express political responsibility or choice. And the other thing, please comment, and the other thing is I support her, so here I agree with you that not only is the distance When it comes to addiction, the media needs to regulate what to show because it has a strong influence on children. [[I thank my colleagues.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141868	Thank you, colleague Alfirev, I'd like to ask you nicely to keep an eye on the timing, not interrupting you, but you're always a little out of line. My colleague Cellic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141869	So as for this second part, I absolutely agree with you about media advertising and Casino Automatclubs, but also about the media advertising of alcoholic beverages, therefore, beer. As far as this is concerned, media abuses in children, which the Ombudsman emphasized for children, I agree with you, but I say a certain duty, of course there is an announcement, there is an important consent of parents. Yesterday we talked about a report on the rights of persons with disabilities, which mentions the importance of the child’s opinion, even in children with developmental difficulties, should take an opinion, not that of a child who will not be photographed, it will not be photographed, but of course that there is, therefore, the consent of parents and that we take care, therefore, if it is pre-election time that there is no abuse by children.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141870	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141871	When it comes to prevention of child addiction, then the role of the office is important and I think that the office has done as much as it could, but I think it's more important than that educational system. For years, I've been pushing for the introduction of a mandatory subject of addiction, in the form of maybe health care education, and since the first grade of primary school because there's not only, we have a growing smoker in adolescents, it's amazing that we as a society tolerate it, but it's not just tobacco, there's alcohol, there's drugs, there's gambling, there's cell phones, there's social networks, there's Internet, it's all creating addiction, and if we don't start solving it through the education system, we're gonna lose that war, and that's what the government needs to be aware of.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141872	Thank you. My colleague Cellic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141873	Dear fellow Stazić, I agree with you, of course, that the educational system is an educational system and that the addiction module should be either in the context of civic education or in the context of health care because already when it comes to the field of health, then we already have a problem, so it is important to prevent addictive patterns of behaviour and for socially acceptable drugs that are the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia and alcohol, the problem of drinking in young people and adolescents. As for smoking, there is a fall, but this fall can again be attributed to the use of electronic cigarettes or similar devices, therefore, not using classic cigarettes anymore, but using electronic cigarettes, it is a slight decline, but there is a very, very much space and there is a role in the educational system of crucial importance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141874	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141875	Thank you very much. My colleague, here I am pleased that you have pointed out again, and I did not know that my colleague Stazić will also replicate in this direction, I am pleased that you have reiterated the importance of preventive activities in, in terms of preventing violence among children and violence against children, and I am particularly pleased that you have highlighted the importance of preventive programmes in primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia so that, therefore, the activities of preventive programmes in terms of preventing violence, in terms of improving the professional training of all stakeholders working with young people in this area and, more importantly, in terms of sensitisation and children themselves, but also parents and the wider community on this issue, and I will reiterate that last year, the Government has co-financed 43 projects in the framework of preventive activities in primary and secondary schools. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141876	The answer of the esteemed co-worker Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141877	My colleague Bedeković, therefore, has a national strategy to combat addiction, a new one that has been overlooked for an eight-year period, which has a part concerning prevention of child and youth addiction, as you have stated, so the family environment, the education system and the social community are crucial and we must then direct that prevention, it is not only so on individuals, but also on groups, but if you want the entire population within one country, so if all three of us combine it then the prevention will be more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141878	Thank you. The next replica is respected counterpart Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141879	Thank you very much, dear fellow cellic, correct me if I am wrong, but the internet addiction is still not in the classification of the disease in us, whether this year is included or not I really don't have that information. To get things out of control, we are aware that the Internet is now more accessible than parents are aware, and that this problem is still being solved at the level of institutional or at the level to resolve the consequences when addiction has already occurred, not prevention through a legislative, legislative framework and we are aware of that, so I am interested in your comment on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141880	Thank you. My colleague Cellic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141881	So, you're right, your colleagues, your addiction to computer games doesn't exist as such in the diagnostic and statistical manual it's aggregated in behavioral addictions, so these are new addictions where there's no taking of a certain psychoactive substance that then changes brain function and changes human behavior, it's one way in some category between a particular subject of research. At this point, it is a much bigger problem, for example, in countries in the Far East, Japan, South Korea, but it is slowly but certainly coming to the territory of Europe, as well as to the territory of Croatia. On the other hand, it is also very important that these services of school medicine, mental health services, work to prevent the possible creation of an addictive form of Internet behaviour, computer games, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141882	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141883	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's the break expired, we continue with an individual debate on the point we had before the amendment was made, and will now speak to the respected representative Marija Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141884	Thank you, Vice-President, and the esteemed attorney with the co-worker, the distinguished secretary of state and the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, after this, after this pause that we had today between, in the debate on the children's report for 2018, somehow to return to the report itself, I would like to say that when we talk technically about the report itself, it means, of course, that I am in favour of and support the scope of the report because I think it's very important and it's important for more reasons because everyone who wants to know something will only find out if the report is just like this and it will, not only to us, but also to many, therefore, to all citizens, and for whatever reason they want to deal with the problem and it's important for any reason, then I can find valuable information and therefore continue to support it and not to agree, therefore, with the government's finding that it is necessary to be able to be able to be able to do so in this kind of the right, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to perform, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be However, I would now, of course, be difficult in those 10 minutes to include a complete report or to talk about everything you have stated. I'm going to try to emphasize what I think is important and say something else that seems to me that I haven't noticed in the report, and I think it might be, maybe I haven't noticed because it's so comprehensive, so we... As you have needs, and I will ask you to tell me whether it is stated somewhere, so correct me or direct me, direct me to some of your allegations. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to look back on your assignment, specifically you as a lawyer, respecting the fact that you're 2.g. or year or something or 2.g. that you are on this duty, but I believe that through some of your further mandate, you will have even more courage or more, therefore, that clear public and media showing, and among the citizens, what you really represent, and you represent the protectors of children, and that is the key. So, in every situation that happens, and every day there are situations that require your involvement because the area of child protection is truly comprehensive, all areas of life are areas of child protection. So the lawyer's job really is, he has to be visible, he has to be spotty, he has to be brave, he has to be encouraging to everyone who wants to work with you on child protection. Why am I saying that? Because I think it would be good if he were in the situations where you reacted, but it might have been better if you'd reacted a little earlier, if you'd reacted in the situation. Let's say, there were media shows where you were involved, and in which, if there were a spotty reaction at the moment when you noticed that there was a violation of children's rights, let's say the appearance of children in the media, if it were an immediate reaction, it would have been more powerful for you, and it would have said, it would have shown itself to everyone, look at us like this, if the attorneys were real aware of the protection of children, then that's it. I say that to you, but also to all of us, therefore, all of us officials, that consciousness was the use of children for any purpose, really that awareness of what we do with children and how we use them and how we even use them, and that gave it to the good and child welfare, that it was extremely important, and that you are the first to need a word, and in this case the appearance of politicians of any, we must say whether there is a limit or whether there is no limit on whether you can tell you whether one politician has the right to appear, and whether another official has the right to appear with children or not. So there's, it's unclear there's a limit, and maybe you should say no, so it doesn't exist, regardless of whether it's working, it's given it in a pre-election time or it's at some other time. Camping must certainly not be carried out in any way and with the use of children. There's a lot to talk about, and I'd like to mention one more thing to you extremely, therefore, violence against children, which you yourself mentioned is one of the biggest enemies. And that lawyer really has something to say. I didn't see it in your report, you're very much, you've explained a lot, you've talked about laws and legal provisions. I don't know, did you look enough at paedophile in churches? Have you looked back enough on the priest's pedophile? Have you looked back enough on the role of people to whom children are entrusted, and the exploitation of children is present? I don't think you have, I haven't seen enough of that in your report, and I think it's a failure, because it's one of the really, really bad, one of the things that your mission is also warning about. You've warned of some church failures, I've noticed when it comes to a priest who didn't want a transgender child, therefore, to allow godmotherhood, also on religiousism, but I haven't noticed enough condemnation, sexual abuse of children by priests. That's very important, your message is extremely important. And for that reason, I think you should point it out, and I think that in the following reports, you should study it, see and give an even stronger conviction, because if you mention associations, if you mention clubs, which are not legally regulated enough, then we can also say with certainty, when we leave the child to the church, that it's protected, can we say that, I'm not sure? And finally, since I really don't have 10 minutes, I would like a third topic, and here I am with, replicating my colleague Bedeković, so also, I am calling you in some way now, and there are State Secretarys, and the Ministry of Social Care and the Ministry of Education and the State Secretary of Health and you are the Advocate General here, so it is necessary to establish, as early as possible, intervention processes, early interventions, for all children, especially children with developmental difficulties, i.e. for children with autism, from the key establishment of the Management Committee for Early Intervention. Your government is currently in charge of this process. It is necessary to appoint this board of directors in order to start these processes, two years waiting for it. I've got some information that, uh, that haste has been sent, but here you are, and you're the attorney, for the child person, and I'm asking you to encourage that board of directors to be appointed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141885	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141886	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It's going to be a short time, so some of the findings that you're talking about, colleagues of Alfirev, are very dangerous. You know the priest's pedophilia, you generalize things, maybe the things that happened, and in such cases, they must be punished or processed. So, speaking generally about it, is very, very dangerous. When you talk about using children, with politicians, you're like... with fellow Djujic and as if you had some childhood trauma probably from your nearer or further surroundings, remembering those politicians, where they had to stand by the road, so they had to greet themselves as such. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's not there. If you think this is very dangerous, look at Mr. Maras and your President Bernardic's instagrams, and you'll see how they use their Instagram when it comes to children. And last thing, you keep talking, Attorney General, you're the child's protector, you're, the child's protector is St. Nikola and St. Ante, she is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, the authority of the Croatian Parliament regarding children's rights in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141887	Thank you, thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative, Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141888	My colleague Babic, neither is what I said, nor is it exaggerated, neither by chance, nor at all, but these are facts, these are facts. These are the facts of the clergy of some, therefore, the same as in the citizens, among all, therefore, there is not all such, nor did I say that they are all. However, it is also the task of the counselors for children, that this is also being introduced in their report. Because if clubs, playgrounds and the like are listed, so must children be protected when they go to church, they simply have to. As far as I'm concerned, I've made it very clear, and as far as politicians and officials are concerned, it's clear that, in any case, the children have to be protected, in every situation, and the lawyer is the one who has to say it and say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141889	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you're right when you say that special attention must be directed at this, when we teach children to some institutions, by authority, by saying that, or by individuals of authority. So we talk about educators, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, priests, who are in the role of authority, so lecturers, teachers, educators, and who can abuse such a position. It is precisely because of those people who abuse the position, which is why we should have the strictest penalties, so we should have a register of paedophiles, i.e. those who sexually exploited children, in order not to put themselves in a position to allow such people to work with children. So, we have to punish and regulate this harshly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141891	The answer of the respected representative, Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141892	Yes, colleague Hajdukovic, that's right. So, all those who are therefore, any institution or any person representing a particular authority is, must therefore be held responsible, and in this case the responsibility in working with children is precisely such that it is also subject to change because anyone who works with children must actually be able to be able to verify, but also the Ombudsman for children must be able to be able to each person of authority, in some ways the Ombudsman must come, be able to verify. So the applications must also be able to reach the Advocate General and equally, she must speak very clearly in time, publish that conviction and propose some measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141893	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney with the deputy, state secretary, secretary of state, co-workers and colleagues. I will try to sum up my debate as much as possible because we have heard a lot already, I don't want to repeat myself, but whenever we discuss the institutions of the attorney, or the attorney general in the current case, I like to stress it, and I think it's very important because of the public education, which is actually the role of the lawyer because most often, and you will see that for the application structures that are being received, people often don't know what the role of the lawyer is, or the lawyer. When we talk about the regiment, whether our specialised lawyers, so for persons with disabilities, children, etc., etc., so people complain that the judgments, on various other matters with which the attorneys, in fact, the institution of the lawyer has nothing to do with it, and in fact there is our task as responsible politicians, of course the attorneys themselves, although they are trying to do so through and this forum, let's say, publicly, but every other public statement we try to educate the public, so that as little actually the office is burdened with things that they are not in charge of, and they have to answer, therefore, by law. And I'm also sorry that often in the focus of the media are not the reports of our attorneys although they are, as I like to emphasize actually the lacmus paper state in our society. So, the Ombudsman for children, whose report we are now discussing, is actually just telling us what the situation in our society is, how our children are protected, which are the most common failures and should actually be a guideline for us as a legislator, but also for all institutions how these problems continue to be solved. Calling the defense attorney's institution for shortcomings in the system is out of your mind, and that's what happened in this home. I'm not talking specifically about, say, a child lawyer, but there are cases. It was and unfortunately there are more because often even colleagues sitting here and colleagues don't understand what the role of counsel is. She is our authority to deal with these problems and to give us feedback on what we need to do and we need to think very carefully about it. What I always like to emphasize is the availability of, say, counseling services. I use the service here in the broadest possible sense, and these are the district offices. So, I welcomed a number of years ago when the Ombudsman opened the district offices and I am glad to see that in every part of Croatia there are District Office of the Advocate General for Children and that the damages can therefore be addressed in relatively close proximity to their place of residence, i.e. they do not have to come exclusively to Zagreb if they want to submit a presentation to one person. It is also a contribution to the decentralisation of Croatia, but also to enable the availability of services or the possibility of addressing the Advocate's Office in every Croatian region. What I would especially like to draw attention to is the CZSS who often have jurisdiction, to which they have jurisdiction when we talk about domestic violence, neglected children and a whole series of other things that I unfortunately experienced firsthand working at school. I'm afraid our CZSS are simply overloaded. They lack resources, they lack logistics, they lack people, and I'm afraid that, between the lines to read actually from the attorney's report that we don't actually have a group of enthusiasts working in that system, that system has long been in disintegrating. Why am I telling you this? When school, at least while I was working at school, when the school filed a report to the CZSS that she suspected or abused in the family or that the child was abused or something, she often knows how to go a few weeks before CZSS employees could go out in the field, not because they didn't want to, but because they have delays even further. When they go out on the field, it is usually not enough to visit or one insight or one interview, but to do so with teachers or teachers, with friends, with neighbors, with parents themselves, with children, so it is all a process that requires a lot of time for certain experts, and that expert or expert at the time is generally not available. And then what happens to you? We can't blame them exclusively. That some things may be skipped, they may be accelerated, or they may not be handled carefully enough, or that they should, because they simply don't have enough time, they don't have the conditions to do so, and in fact, that system falls or doesn't provide the kind of protection that they should provide. This is necessary and how to be called to alert, to be in the welfare system and to invest more, if we want, means a sustainable and efficient system, and especially effective, when it comes to domestic violence and violence against children, because when, here, colleague Alfirev spoke before me, about violence at school, so the people who have authority over children, but when children are exposed to violence in the unit or family environment in which they should be the safest, and there are no one to protect them, then we are also talking about the long-term major damage that the child will suffer in later life. I say, I've had the opportunity to experience this again and as a direct worker in teaching, that I literally saw that some children had failed precisely because the system couldn't react in time for a variety of reasons, but in general these reasons were objective nature. And what actually happened? We've lost one person, one person in whose recovery if we're ever going to be able to resuscitate that person in a completely emotional sense, so to be an adult, responsible and emotionally mature person, it's going to take a lot of time and a lot of resources. And that the system reacted on time maybe we shouldn't have done it at all. I would also end up with the fact that once again I would point out that violence is a very big problem, so when we talk about family mechanisms and there are, but when we talk about a peer, it's a whole other pair of gloves, let's just say it's a completely different problem that requires different approaches. We are not just talking about legislation here, we are talking about the work of school, so where it happens most often because schools unfortunately have become too much of an educational institution, too little of an educational institution, and that is something to put emphasis on. So there are also educational objects that children should raise and be responsible for each other and to be responsible and citizens, and I fear that this is becoming increasingly lagging behind. In any case, commendation to the Ombudsman's work and I also expect that in the coming years we will read even more comprehensive and even better reports and that you will actually continue to point out what your job is to all the failures, the systems, all the failures of the legislator and what we need to do. And I'm counting that our attorney institutions are in some way our conscience that keeps telling us which direction we should go, which should fix, which holes should be closed so that our system, which is the legal system, or the social care system, the care of persons with disabilities or gender equality, is as effective as possible, which is better and more at the service of our citizens and citizens, which is ultimately its goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141895	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141896	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys, members of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. So since 2003, when the children's attorney's office was actually formed, so here's to this day in these 15 years, this is actually the 15th report, but the 16th year of the attorney for children's work. So in those 15 years and all those numbers that you've put on are actually very impressive figures and I appreciate it, and I'm sure from that time until today, there's been a lot of work on that, on the health care of children, on social protection, in the education structure, in everything that's really about children's rights, but also what we as an environment can do, of course. All these activities that are related to your report are correctly divided into those 7 chapters, and I think all those who wanted and could read certain things could do so from the very following of individual children's rights to the action of a network of young counselors which I particularly appreciate but here I have my own opinion that through social action but certainly not in law making because this criticism or self-critism in children is not sufficiently pronounced so that we can also adapt legal legislation to the advice of young people to participate in making regulations, which I particularly commend. The fact is that many are not as enlisted in the legal regulations themselves, but at least it has been pointed out or made clear what the child lawyer really wants to do by amending these regulations or by suggesting the rules themselves. Then in the tours of the institution for children, which I think is very important. I used to say often in my presentations here in the Croatian Parliament that children must meet their attorney, I don't mean now just by name and last name even though I should, but I certainly am the attorney's office for the children anyway. And I commend those actions and activities that are in collaboration with kindergartens, schools and other institutions. Just your report, which is true written on 300th and slightly more pages, and I think the government also says in its opinion that it's too many pages, some of the colleagues today were saying that not, those who want to read it, I think that's what my colleague Glasovac was saying, but we have reports and vehicular lawyers, a lawyer's report for persons with disabilities for gender equality. And when you add that opinion to the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is about 30, 40 pages, it's about 1,500 pages of text. So some of the things you write about in your report I think they don't need places, it's good to warn about certain things that you're saying now that I'm not talking about individual things about discrimination, you've written some sports teachers or teachers or something like that, maybe it's an individual case, but if you write it down publicly, it's a publicly available document, he or such cases can take certain mass negative reactions. So when it comes to individual cases or in a small number of cases, maybe it shouldn't be published that way. It's also my grudge in general, I know it's got to be written about it, I know it's your role, and it's the law you're following, the Law of Discrimination but discrimination can be everything, from the moment I talk to you interactively now or while I look at you to serious forms of discrimination. Well, you're also talking about certain parts of discrimination here, and believe me, we who often go outside and in these international bodies and international organisations, and I especially remember Commissioner for Human Rights Nils Muiznex who actually only read, read such reports, and then brought such a court and then often you know that these international events are actually spoken of in Croatia and a great number of discrimination which cannot be read, let's just say from your report that it's not a mass phenomenon, thank God, there are individual cases and you bring them as such both sex and race and national minorities, it certainly needs to be contained as much as possible but don't talk about it as some kind of mass phenomenon which is not. It is also important to keep an eye on those reports for writing certain sentences, for example a sentence. Children in Croatia suffer violence and silence with the approval of the environment. So, you're thinking of having all the kids sleep, which isn't true. So maybe you should write some or some children suffer such violence. On the other hand, you also write, difficulties in adopting children. So here's where you sit the secretary of state from the Ministry of Demography, family and youth and social policy, it's not like that, so children up to 3 years are almost all adopted. And that's what to say. Those kids you don't get along with are mostly children with disabilities older than 6 years or are children of national minorities the most or mostly Roma children. So the secretary of state can also confirm that. So, no, that's not exactly what adoption is all about. What I certainly commend, which is that you are already in advance knowing that we will be chairing the EU since 1.1.2020, you are already considering and suggesting governmental certain things specifically related to the Council of Europe's strategy for children's rights and all that belongs to it, and I think that this is the time when we can also mark this presidency with regard to children's very things, and I greatly commend it. What I want to talk about, so I don't run out of time, is two things. So it's also a settlement on other rights violations via Internet and computer games, games and prevention of addiction to computer games. So these are now mass phenomena. When we talk about this adopted law on audiovisual activities or this national comparative research which I really commend, but it has no results for you, you still have no results for this national comparative research, or I may not have seen it, but I have seen 1,000 children, but you have no results, while many things will happen in the meantime, as well as that general protection regulation actually data so-called. GDPR forms, so it's all commendable. However, here is a fellow Petrijevchanin talking about cyberbullying and all those things negative on the Internet, which is the worst, worst, parents boast about it, parents photograph their children and they talk about it very, very much. So, on the one hand, you have to keep an eye on children's rights for access, free access, free information, and on the other hand, and the negativeities that happen to you on the Internet, because as soon as your parents show up, they're your influenzar and you kids don't like it. As for computer games, I'm sorry my time will run out, so here I have my opinion, believe me, I have five kids, your average is 6 hours, so in those 6 hours, so my kids are on the Internet for 30 hours, it's too much danger, all the negatives that come out of this talk is also Dr. Celic here today and about the addiction of these games, a series of negative phenomena, to even certain cardiovasculars that I'm not telling you, we talked about when we talked about drugs. So, that's what you need to be very careful about. Look, when your kids are on school vacations, and you write it, they don't have any interaction, they're already playing with these video games and they're using that time, it's a warning sign. I don't know, maybe this is going to cause a blizzard, but I'm saying it from experience. So kids at 12, 14 or 16 who are your video games their physiology changes, they have no urge at all, you know those first love when they're 13, 14 and 15 years old, they don't have that urge anymore they have it in the virtual world. So that's one too many dangers. I think it's the bell, the alarm bell. So it's one big danger, we don't care maybe so much about those consequences and I'd like to make more account of it. I mentioned the Council of Europe Strategy and those 7 points, I don't have time, and they matter. It's a good thing you're talking about them, that you warned the government and the current ministries here, that maybe the Ministry of Culture is missing and missing, but that's what we should talk about anyway. I especially commend your charter on the safety of children on the internet in Croatia. I'm glad and I'd like as many people to get involved in it as possible, I can see that they've included these centres related to children than violence, that HACOM is involved and three operators and it should be much, much more people involved. I certainly like the two sentences you said. So traumatized children grow up to be traumatized people and take care of it. And you have concluded that without sufficient political determination, I fully agree with you, that the situation is improved in all areas and levels of our society. No approved strategy, regulation or law can change that unless we want to. So it's all up to us. at the institutions. And to the very end, here's the D.A. I suggest you, no matter how few people in that office you form a team that's about to deal with these addictions because what we're getting into the Republic of Croatia is old-fashioned data. And they're alarming. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141897	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative Pernar, please. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141898	Dear Representative Babic, I would like to know how you will vote on our bill to make the register of paedophiles public and what you think about the EU that says that you should protect the privacy of paedophiles and not publish their names. Because that's exactly the kind of explanation we got from the government, that it's not in the EU's spirit to violate their privacy. Is it some kind of pedophile spirit, is it actually some new culture that we accept, in which the children of the first victims are innocent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141899	The answer of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141900	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so this bill of law has come at the right time, in pre-election time, and this is an unprecedented example of the exploitation of children for pre-election purposes absolutely. As far as the Pedophile registry itself is concerned, I have absolutely no problem with it being published. However, I have against what is happening in the Republic of Croatia, so even without something happening, or that certain bodies that need to process it or institutions have done so, so the public, or the media, has condemned people in advance. That's not good, that Stigmatization isn't good especially because we're a small environment and there, yes but it's not, it's not as good as it is. So, the moment the institutions do that, I have absolutely nothing against publishing the register, registering the pedophile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141901	The next debate is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141902	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in my debate on behalf of the club, the esteemed lawyer with the co-workers, on behalf of the club, I talked about problems that were detected quite well and objectively described in the lawyer's report, but only remained obliged to say something about the possibilities of improving the system, solutions that would improve the protection of children, their social and social status and ultimately enable them to grow up to be quality people who could take care of themselves and others on their own. So we've been listening to government announcements for a long time, I don't know how many years, that every child will have a child's allowance. Why is this measure being implemented? When it's finally going to be done I really don't know, I think that now, if there were ever conditions, that they exist now, we see that such a measure is persistently delayed or not implemented. We brought the Living Wall to HS and discussed here the Bank Taxation Act, their property, where all the funds obtained by this tax would be used for children or demographic measures. We have suggested that only 0.67% of bank assets are taxed annually, which would represent 2.5 billion kuna annually, primarily because everywhere in European countries there are both general and special bank taxes, and we have no specific, nor general, tax even on bank transactions, which, therefore, usually absolutely in all EU countries. And when we brought in, therefore, a law that I minimally repeat once again 0.6% tax the banks, and at the same time very, very much would mean a lot to the children, to mothers, to parents, for example, for example, a tax every newborn child could get 50,000,00 kn in cash, each, every single one, then the ruling majority of it with a mockery made fun of some populist move, now they're talking about some pre-election agenda even though we gave the Pedophilia Act a year ago, when no choice was in sight, nor the general need to talk about the election, they're now saying, that was your pre-election path. They're always making up something, it's never time, it's never time, it's Easter, tomorrow is May 1st, then it's an election, then it's Independence Day, so it's holidays, so the MPs have to rest, so they're sleeping, it's never a good time. And the good time is right now, this second is a good time, which we have to wait for. How many children were born in the Republic of Croatia last year? 37,000, record record. Who's to blame? How many died? 53,000. Minus 16,000. Minus one whole Chakotay. How many moved out? 48 grand. In a year, minus one Varazdin. We lost a city that, I don't know, there's 1,000 years. And what's the word here? The story here is the main problem in the state is the wicked Living Wall, they're the problem, they need them, right now the guards send, the police, the tanks, and then there's gonna be peace to shut up that filthy mouth that says it's not the most beautiful queen in the world, it's Snow White. Whenever it is necessary to choose between those who are pushing and those who suffer, this ruling majority always chooses those who are pushing. When it comes to choosing whether to protect pedophile or children, the ruling majority protects pedophiles. When it comes to choosing whether to give to banks or newborns, they give to banks, they feed the fat goose, that's theirs, that's their pre-election program with which they go to the European elections, give to those who don't need it, give to those who have 1,000 lives, and to poor children, and once we're gone, no, my concern goes to another. Why are these measures being implemented in the first place? We've said a thousand times we're digging up basic directors like electricity, like water? Did you know that in Ireland water is free? Why isn't debt slavery breaking down? Why doesn't this executive law change? We put in the procedure a brand-new executive law. Why isn't it on the agenda? Why doesn't your executive law come to the agenda? Tomorrow, it's on the agenda of the Living Wall Act on the Agency's collection of claims. What are you doing tomorrow? You'll talk again that the election, that I don't know, is Friday and that you need to hurry home. Why not, don't you accept that law? Why do you allow the family to be terrorised day and night by calls from some EOS Matrix, Coffeys, B2 capital and other zombies that should all be driven out of the Republic of Croatia, slam the doors and wipe out all these debts. Why aren't we protecting enough pregnant women? You talk, you swear on women's rights, and we all know that a woman who gets pregnant once already got fired once, and if she happens to stay at work when she comes back, then she's in a far worse position than she was before she left for maternity. Why don't we invest in science and education? Why isn't there enough scholarships for students? Why don't we solve the question of free textbooks, but bring it down to the level of county and cities, so who can, who can't, can't. Why don't we settle the student transport issue? I've told this House a thousand times that there are hungry children in schools. And in order for children in schools to eat this hungry one, it takes 30 million kunas, it takes less than I don't know, one drug in the United States and you haven't been able to solve it in years. In high school, children don't eat at all, they don't have a meal and they stay if sometimes the practice is included for 10, 12 hours at school. In elementary schools children eat exclusively where there is a kitchen, where there is no kitchen, children do not eat and such schools are almost half. And you have a proposal to give the funds to those kids in schools where there's no kitchen simply bring meals, to be brought to them. And that it also organizes a kind of diet in high schools but you keep sitting on your ears and you keep not interested. But what you're interested in, you're interested in giving 5 billion kunas to the vermin run by the Ministry of Health, you'll give him 5 billion kuna in one term. You're gonna pat him on the back and say cool, you're doing a really good job. You will give 5 billion kuna to the Oilman who destroyed your governments in cooperation with local politicians. And last year in December when there were 350 million kunas left from the purchase of buckets that never came to God, I told you and I gave you the amendment, give at least now for those hungry children because it was surplus in the budget. And then you wouldn't give it away. Should we be surprised that there are no more children in Croatia, should we be more surprised that there are no more young workers in Croatia, then should we be surprised that 70% of high school students want to leave the Republic of Croatia immediately after schooling? When will you finally, as Mr. Babic says, do everything you politicians can to address this matter in a good way? The living wall will support the Attorney General's report, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141903	Thank you very much, we have one replica of the esteemed representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you are surprised that this government does not have 30 million as you said, to ensure that no child in Croatian schools is hungry or in order to ensure his diet. Of course not. When it will take 72 million kuna a year to employ 500 new people in the administration, an imaginary, newly invented State Inspectorate founded to make Mr. Mikulic the Chief State Inspector. And that's your priority. So twice as much will be allocated to new people's employment as to how much housing loans will be subsidized to young families this year and there are not even these 30 million kunas to feed children in schools. This is all about the priorities of this government where the children are and where the new arrests are because I'm just curious about how these new 500 people will be employed in the administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141905	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141906	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Glasovac, means that it is always a matter of priority to us, which is important for us when we look at the 2018 budget, we see clearly which items have increased and which items have remained the same or even decreased. So we are already among Europe's countries only at the bottom of education. So we have, how much, less than 3% of our budget is allocated to education and there are countries where there are 8 and 11% of the resources to be allocated, and where children can be educated in an uninterrupted manner, practically to the degree of doctoral science, but for what we have, we have for planes and armored ships. How much for the armored ship, 300 million kuna this year, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141907	Thank you. The next debate will be those respected representatives of Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141908	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, esteemed attorney with an associate, state secretary, secretary of state, co-worker and co-worker. Here we talk all day today, we are discussing a report by the Ombudsman for children for 2018, and all of us here no matter what side we come from, we will agree that many children in Croatia are suffering and it is up to us to do everything to make as little children as possible and to make progress in relation to what was 2018 and not to say earlier. In fact, the lawyer really looked very closely at the numerous categories of children and sought to protect children and migrants, beggars, children in conflicting parental relations, the protection of children of foreign citizens, especially the rights of children whose parents are in prison, special attention to both gifted children, children who change class groups and the like. It's up to all of us to do something to make these kids feel better. But it seems to me that in today's debate we've all talked about what someone should do, so the Ministry of Demography is wrong about one thing, the Ministry of Health for something else, the Ombudsman should see a third one and not think about what we can do in this assembly and what we do, in which way we harm some kids or traumatize them. I'd say we don't think there's anything in our jurisdiction when we say such hard words for a colleague, and here in the last two debates and replicas we've heard a lot of things. So the ruling majority protects paedophiles, we're ruling lies, we're corrupt, some of our colleagues are involved in a mega affair with prostitutes, cocaine, giving or setting up millions of jobs and so on. All this is published by the media, and then down on Facebook comes even more juicy adjectives and compliments, character, tuca, lie, thief and the like. Do you think what it's like to read to the children of that official? That's what the parents of their schoolmates read, and then it's also going through school. These children are very patient and traumatized. As the report says, for the rights of children whose parents are in prison, it's not my crime, but the punishment is. These children did not choose their parent to be an official, even if he committed some kind of sin, and often we know that newspaper inscriptions are bombistic to find out later that none of this is true. However, it's more difficult to pick up. How do you think the elementary school kid that the parent takes to school in pre-election and on the poster of his parent who is a candidate for mayor, mayor, etc. See the split eyes, not to tell the woman drawn, at best drawn mustaches or anything else. It's been weeks, months of school. When a parent comes to consult or asks for a classmate's reception, any child, it's a responsible parent who asks to help his child, to examine him again, etc. If that's what the official does, then it's pressure on the professors, for a higher grade, so you can come to the paper and so on. I mean, let's just all of us who, most of us, have kids, and I think these are topics that we very often talk about when, something about a story, some cartoon that our kid's been through in the past few days or weeks doesn't have colleagues, I say again, no matter what sides they come from, and there's kids who won't tell, here's how my kid got this or that. Let's at least make sure we don't use hard words without saying unfounded because especially media follow-up, online communication, etc. He's causing a lot of pain. He's traumatizing all those kids. Let's show in this assembly that we appreciate our colleague's child no matter what side he comes from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141909	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141910	Thank you very much. So, MP Juričev, we fully agree that not to attack a person but to attack politics, the content should be attacked, content should be criticised. Finally, offer counterarguments and solutions. Here, for example, in the Living Wall, we would really like all people in Croatia to be happy and content regardless of which parties they come from, we advocate that you too be happy, that the members of the SDP are happy, that they be happy people regardless of their race, regardless of their nationality, regardless of their religion, regardless of their sex. That's how it's supposed to be. However, we are dominated by exclusion, anger and the need for someone's elimination, which is definitely not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141911	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141912	Thank you very much. Thank you, Comrade Bunjac, it seems to me that somehow you have now settled down in this replica and a little bit, but here's a chance, I didn't give you a replica, namely, when you were talking about free meals, you should know that in primary schools in Croatia they have the right to free meals, either through the Children's Foundation, whether funding from the EU funds of those most needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141913	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141914	Respected HDZ MPs. Here, I am interested, as wife and mother, as you comment on the fact that HDZ refuses to be publicly available to other parents to know who the paedophiles are in their vicinity and how you comment here, I would say by the EU that the pedophiles are called some kind of protected category whose privacy should be protected by the EU, because in response to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the EU is reluctant to make the names of paedophiles public because it is godlike they would feel, etc., and for the victims no one asks how those children felt, no one is interested. So I have nothing personal against you here, my desire is only to affect your conscience that this finally clears up with the pedophile situation and ultimately, in the children's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141915	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141916	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, I'm Branko Juričev-Martinchev, for your information. I'm a mother of three, and I mean, when you talk about paedophiles that all of us who are parents have the same attitude. As much as something will be public, the register will be available to those who need it, so they won't be able to work in sus... those who will hire, who will be the system [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: colleague Pernar, not from the scene. Come on, let's be nice.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141917	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141918	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The esteemed attorney with her associates. When we talk about this, then we must call on what children, who have the right and who exercise the rights that are prescribed, so we must know that in Croatia according to studies only 40% according to studies in all and European, only 40% of children have the opportunity to go to kindergartens. A third of the units of local self-government are neither able to enroll one child in kindergarten, which means that the picture of the Republic of Croatia, which is at the bottom, is defeated. When we talk about kindergarten, then we talk about, that these kids have a much smaller chance,... The chances of becoming highly educated and it is according to the studies, proven, that very little chance, that children who did not have, went to kindergarten, as an educational institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I do not consider the kindergarten a guardianship, but those who have had the opportunity to socialise, Croatia is at the bottom and there are huge differences in the county, let's say the City of Zagreb, has some standard that the European Council and the EU set in Barcelona in 2002 that by 2020 there will be meaning, somewhere needed in this entire EU area, 90% of children, this standard by 2020. However, unfortunately, Croatia repeats, at the bottom, the possibility of children going to kindergarten. We have a number of local self-governments, but I repeat, 161 local self-government, there's no way to enroll one child, and there are children, which means that it's also one of the very big reasons or important reasons why young families leave, because their children of 3-6 years can't be in an educational institution, which is a kindergarten, because I repeat, these kindergartens have an educational function. I repeat in Zagreb the standard has been reached at 90% according to research and statistics, but we also have these counties, which are 10%, 15th, Bjelovarska has, Slavonska brodska, pardon, around 15%... children are able to be in kindergarten, and that is, in Croatia, so children have no equal chance, so in 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, our children don't have the same chance, regardless of why we haven't even used cohesion funds, and that's why I'd like you as a lawyer to give the greatest emphasis, on these real children, that all children in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia have the same chance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know that now ministers are praised for building kindergartens, however, it is another problem. I was giving the amendment when it was passed the Law on Undeveloped Areas and Mountain Mountains. Unfortunately, and my proposal was made by the regional development minister, she said, that it would be better if Zagora hadn't given birth to me, so they told me that I was choban, that I better be a choban, than I was a party sheep, but here, I would just point out to you here, that this is one of the big problems. If it wasn't enough to say, we'd be building out of a kindergarten fund now. They're poor, local self-government, so this facility, in itself, isn't enough capacity for these people, these local self-governments, that their parents, have the ability to pay. Other countries have undeveloped, their own ends, resolved to subsidise from state budgets, decentralised towards local self-government, a part that should be paid by parents in this area, just to stay in the area. I've made such an amendment, given basics. So in undeveloped areas, in 2/3 of Croatia, let's be realistic, that the state subsidized, what parents have to pay for, which cannot be local self-government, and precisely because of these demographic measures, and that these children have the possibility, means the same chance in life, as children who have the possibility of kindergarten in our developed regions. And I repeat again, that, it was not accepted, that then Minister Gralac said that it would have been better if Zagora hadn't given birth to me, I'm sorry that it wasn't the parliamentary representatives, my colleagues didn't support me, who were from Zagor and Dalmatia, because when I passed from Slavonia, then my colleagues from Slavonia, they know, which would mean local self-government, that they were subsidized, undeveloped, I repeat, and that's 2/3 of Croatia, that they are subsidized from the local budget. But, I repeat, we have a large number of local self-government units, and a third is not a possibility, there is no possibility that for one child, and who will live there? Here's the principal's answer. Who's going to live here? So who can do it? So like in other countries, Germany, Belgium, Austria, they solved it simply. So they subsidized, through budget money, decentralisation, to pay for essentially that inability to co-finance, to finance fully, in these areas, that they have the possibility of children having the right to kindergarten, because we all call on children, but unfortunately, here, only in developed areas, and that is, unfortunately, only a little Zagreb left, and that is getting worse, something and these larger cities, and 2/3 of Croatia are literally dead. I can speak from my neighborhood, I'm sorry he's not a colleague of Šipic, 70% of our neighborhood is empty, we don't even have children, we had buildings, it's not a problem building, here's a colleague of Juric's, I see he's picking up, I'm glad the replica, which is correct, but she knows how it is in Drnis. No children's pay anymore, no means, no, no, the only thing you can hear, and even less, is parents crying for their children, grandmothers at bus stations, and that's because we didn't use the best budget money for undeveloped areas and mountainous mountain areas. When I talk about this, I also talk about Gorski kotar, I was in Vrbovska, here's a colleague of Sladolov, it's impossible that those with their financial envelopes, capacities, budgets, all local units, make it possible at all to kindergarten and then it's too expensive for parents and literally at that point, we don't even have a preschool person anymore, they don't even have a job, and we don't have a chance to do kindergarten. I repeat again and stress that it is the right of children. One of the big problems that the county should care about is health services. I can now say in my county, and I believe in Split Dalmatian, which is the largest after the City of Zagreb, the largest county, that we have no pediatrician. We have a problem in Sinj in Cetinje, 50,000 residents, instead of 4 per public service should have 4 pediatricians on the network, however, we had 2 one is due to and sick leave us on one, imagine, 4,000 children on one doctor and when the Metkovic case happens then everyone grabs his head. Recently there was also a thematic session at my proposal in Split-Dalmatia County for a great miracle for the first time they were all unanimous on the measures I proposed which, of course, are not enough without a central state. I repeat again, children cannot be allowed to be delayed due to systematic examinations because simply a doctor cannot receive 500 children a day. That's impossible. And there's her and the county and the states that have to help the health care systems, help, subsidize these doctors to stay in those areas, and not that for 10 years there's no pediatrician specialization, many have retired and, of course, the director of home health, nor cared, nor was he interested, and of course, that's not how healthcare can work. And that's one of the reasons why people leave because they can't health care services and we have a large number of counties, you know, we have extra-received clerks. I've even given in my county and you don't know the number... After they couldn't answer us, Split-Dalmatia, I gave them the amendment to upgrade one floor, that people who received everything had a place to sit, that it didn't have to be in the park, in the cafes, I brought even 4 chairs as much as it was admitted to health homes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it doesn't invest in specialization planically because it's very easy to calculate how many people. And that's why I'm here, Attorney General, I hope that we're here as Parliamentarians and, in particular, the executive power that offends us when we suggest we're shepherds, that it's better if Zagora didn't give birth to us, when I proposed this then was such a reaction, they say that everything's okay. So I would ask you to confirm this thesis where Croatia is on children's kindergartens in the EU and how many children are able to go to kindergarten, and those children who don't go to kindergarten from 3 to 6 years of age are much less gentlemen of Parliament and therefore we talk about a serious topic and you clap to your ministers when they insult us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141919	We've got a series of replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of the Ice creams. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, while I was in the foundation for children, I noticed one fact to the Croatian Foundation for Children, it is a pure statistic that associations that care for children with disabilities and children with autism, with Down syndrome in rural areas are much less funded than those in Zagreb because they are left at the mercy of European funds. And then I asked why, and then I got the answer that these associations weren't capacitated to pull out of the eu funds, not administratively or professionally, then I said that the state, or the foundation, should train these people to do it because it's a huge disproportionate precisely in such things. Most people are volunteers in these organizations, and they're practically worse off than those in urban areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141921	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141922	Thank you very much. I said that Croatia simply units of local self-government other than what they have, we have a number of mayors, mayors, deputies, councils, secretaries, officials, no funds for such children's kindergartens or children with Down syndrome or have no fiscal capacity other than rich cities but few unfortunately rich, I would like them to be more rich, means that we have too many units of local self-government and simply which is not able to provide so, most of all, those children need minimum, minimum dignity and minimum financial... And simply EU funds have not withdrawn enough, and on this issue we are at the bottom of the EU, we have just withdrawn from 10.5 billion kuna 17%, which means we are at the bottom of the EU with all the praises of this government, but we need to look outside these lights, I live in the Dalmatian Fire, and I believe for the rest of our lives that we should try... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141923	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bunjec. Here you go. He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141924	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Bulj, you're saying that in Croatia there are problems with enrolling children in kindergartens, that many parents simply can't pay for those funds, at 1,000 kunas is as much as they cost, God forbid they have two or three kindergarten children, we have a problem with free textbooks, we saw last year that 100 million kunas should be paid for all children in Croatia, that they can't pay for it either. It is impossible to provide 30 million kuna for hungry children in schools while at the same time providing 5.5 billion kuna for debts to large-scale drugs created by Minister Kujundzic. So how can we have $5.5 billion for someone's waste while we don't have 150 million for the future of this country and these are children? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141925	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141926	My colleague Bunjac, everything you said I could sign, you said the fact, and I don't think you're going to tell us these populists, I think they're populists here because I was the one who suggested I was the amendment, you weren't in the House yet, I suggested an amendment in the mandate that meaning textbooks be free of charge. It's not accepted, but in Sinj, I was the first to propose in the county. When I proposed to the county assembly, I was declared a populist. But when I took care of it in Sinj, the mayor ran right away and said here are all the free textbooks. Well, I don't think it's populist that in the undeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia we have free textbooks, though, if it can be in Zagreb I don't see any reason not to be free textbooks in the entire part of the Republic. And not colleagues and colleagues, you often call us... By pulsism, one is the only fact here clearly, not to be invested... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141927	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141928	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bulje, I am pleased that you are interested in the problem, you call us populists but this time you turned out to be populists because you do not admit that this government first invested the Ministry of the Family 100 million kn, signed kindergarten contracts, and 300 million kunas, to adjust the working time of kindergartens, to allow parents to be able to be in kindergartens during the afternoon. That the Ministry of Agriculture, 860 million kuna, also separated for reconstruction, construction of kindergartens, especially in rural areas. So, I am for it to be a critic of what is not good, but it would also be correct, and on the side of the opposition to admit what the government did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141929	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141930	My colleague Jelkovac, you've mixed up some pots, investments in buildings, not enough, believe me, it's not enough, that we have too many empty schools in 2/3 of Croatia, which could be arranged with a lot less money and investment and be kindergartens. Even those walls aren't a problem anymore. The problem is that people have already left by now and these measures don't bring... bring no results except what's good, what's invested, I appreciate it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's important to ensure in this area, that poor families, which are corners. The poorer families in these areas, their parents, have the opportunity to allow them, through, decentralised funds and help them not to pay kindergartens in the area. That's not what Miro Bulj meant, it was solved by other countries, in order to meet the standards of both Belgium and Austria and Germany, in order to reach the standards agreed in Barcelona by 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141931	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141932	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I don't know if you don't know, or if you're speaking populistly, when you were talking about building kindergartens in rural areas of the EU funds. Do you know, that only 21 December last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed 113 contracts for the construction of new EU funds from the rural development programme and when we add the 57 previously signed, means equal 200 new contracts will be worked in areas, in rural areas, meaning in villages below 5,000 inhabitants. Due to great interest, this alocation has also increased, so that we can get as many kindergartens as possible. I don't know if you said that out of ignorance or populists, but it's good that our citizens know.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141933	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141934	I don't know why you're nervous or why you're repeating that mantra she sent you from the government. I'm telling you the facts and the truth. So, you, gentlemen, did not support that in Drnis, in your back of the guide, children do not have the possibility of having free kindergarten. That part that parents pay, that they subsidize the state. You are not for these, like, 200 million kunas, which I have proposed, for 2/3 of Croatia you will not accept, you will build walls, but believe me, under these lights and these PRs, which you send messages to you and your colleagues in front of, to praise insecurely, do not boast and descend on, so go to Drniš, you live near, go to Knin, go to Sinjska, Cetinski part. You will see, except for now pre-election asphalting and other than the visit of ministers who eat what remains of the lamb, there is nothing left for you, as far as children are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141935	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141936	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Bulj, you are most of your debate, dedicated, debated children's kindergartens. I will remind you that last year, the Government provided 800 million kuna by allocating funds and that all municipalities and cities, which had completed project documentation for the construction of kindergartens, passed the contest. For example, in Varazdin County, other than rural parts, Martianec, Bednja, Ilija, Vinica, Vidovec, for the first time in 30 years, a building of a kindergarten in Kucan is being built. However, what is important, and that is what you have stated, is the question of the sustainability of this kindergarten, especially in those small areas. So if we're for each municipality to have a kindergarten building in its area, which I think is desirable, that doesn't mean that every building has to have its legal personality, or more municipalities can form one kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141937	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141938	I'll repeat it once again, it's not an object problem, we've got enough empty schools, we've got enough empty facilities, so even, objects aren't with certain re-purposes and reaching standards, which must have, to open kindergarten, is no longer a problem. The problem is what, 60, means 161 units of local self-government don't have the possibility of one child, yes, either way, I mean for one child to provide money. They're not a problem building anymore, everything's fine... invests, however, the problem is that we are not solving, as the developed countries have resolved, which wanted standards to be reached in the area of underdeveloped, that all children have the same chance, that they have a 3-6 year old educational institution, which is a kindergarten and that is the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have to subsidize, like the state, as well as other countries, our parents, to stay here in the area and that their children have the possibility of staying in the area and therefore we do not have 10 in some counties... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141939	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141940	Ladies and gentlemen, today I had two choices, one possibility was to listen to the lady explain to me what the situation is with children, or to protect children, and another possibility was to go to Mr. Shulog in Bistro and get the seedlings of Indian bananas and Mongolian blueberries. And between those two choices, I thought I'd better go out and get those fruits, or berries, and plant it, than listen to this shooting, and why I'm going to explain it. We give kids unhealthy food at school today. All the fruits we give students are chemically treated, mostly apples or whatever. And why is that? Why school facilities, or gardens around schools, do not grow fruits that may not be chemically treated or that do not need to be treated at all. Why do we have such a beautiful and great land with so many surfaces and people don't plant fruit? Imagine in Međimurje Roma children how much they would like to eat blueberries but not just because they're expensive, because they don't have money for them, and they don't know that they can plant them, that they can eat them as much as they want. I'd like to say a few words about the Indian banana, namely the Paw Paw is called from North America, it's about fruit that tastes like mangoes, bananas and pineapples, it grows in the northern climate, and I've planted three seedlings of it in the garden, I've planted cherries, I've planted apples, pears, I've planted one, I've even planted a Mongolian cherry, then I've planted blueberries of American, Siberian and finally today and Mongolian. I have planted a vine that is resistant to disease and is not to be treated chemically, two peach vineyards and one common peach. I'd like to point out, of course, as far as berries are concerned, I've planted more irony, iosta, fishy black, red, farm berries, etc. But what do I want to tell you? Kids eat unhealthy food today, that's the main problem. Parents save on children, the state saves on children, everyone saves on children. Why don't you plant fruit trees around the school that don't need to be sprayed? And I'll explain to you the problem of intensive breeding. When you grow, say, peaches, those varieties that aren't resistant, then you can't afford to have some disease because it can reduce your birth to, say, 20% and you're 20 percent more or less, depending on whether you're going to be in a plus or a minus, and that's why everyone's chemically treating fruit. In essence, fruit should not be treated chemically at all, but this profit and profit-oriented race has led to the purchase of all fruit, that people do not grow fruit and that the fruits they buy are chemically treated and not healthy. Children should be taught nature, they should be taught plants, they should be taught to recognize a variety of berries, to realize that blackberries exist without thorns, for example, that there are these Mongolian blueberries that grow like trees, beautiful things, give pounds of fruit. Imagine how happy children would be if they had that. And the biggest fear people have about planting fruit trees is that someone else is going to eat them, some kids or neighbors, etc. You know how I got that problem in our garden? I didn't plant one blueberry or two. I planted five American, nine Siberian and two Mongolian blueberries so everyone can eat those blueberries. I didn't plant one Indian banana, I planted three. I've planted three cherries at the end, and they've got two cherries. One vineyard can produce, peaches, 130 kg of fruit, and I planted you two and one plain. And why isn't it planted around the school? Why don't people plant fruit and berries in Croatia? Because of human stupidity and profit-orientedness. Because they have a fear that someone else will eat their fruit. So let them plant that fruit more, so no matter how many people eat, they won't be able to eat it all. There's a story about why you steal other people's fruit, forgive me, father, but I miss vitamins. Well, that simple problem can only be solved by planting more fruit. And when I planted all those fruit trees, then someone asked the question, and then who would the fruit trees sell their fruit to? Well, people, you can't have the interest of a group of people above the interests of children, adults and people's health. You know that there is a decline in fertility in Croatia, there are more and more infertile couples, so do you wonder if chemical treatment for various herbicides and pesticides has anything to do with it? Of course there is. And I appeal to you to act on schools that have large gardens on which there are either bare meadows or to say trees that do not produce any fruit to plant peach vineyards, to plant vines that do not need to be sprayed. If they're afraid of the type of height that children don't climb, so let them plant things that are low, means shrubs, the type of Siberian blueberry, the grown berries, and they're just cutting and they'll all be able to have these berries. I especially appeal to people in Međimurje, meaning the Roma population there, I want to tell them that they are not aware of how much capital they have in their hands, that the land where the naked grass grows can produce phenomenal fruits. A kilo of these Indian bananas is 20 kuna, a buy-in in the wholesale. So plant a couple of such trees, you already have income, and to plant 80, you have a big walk, you have 25,000 kunas a year. If you planted a little more, if you planted 150 of them, that would be hunting to the roof, we could all do fruit growing. I call upon the state to give the Roma a land, whoever Roma wants to plant, whoever has the will to give it to him, the land to work, to plant. To every man, every inch of our land that hasn't been worked, let the fruit be planted and I want to say one more thing. That fruit doesn't ask for any concern about itself. The only concern with, say, Indian bananas or cherries is only in the first year, so in the first year, so in the first year when the seedling is placed, only in the summer should water, then the root system develops, you don't have to water it. You're aware, all you have to do is cut. How many kids would look forward to cherries in school canteens but no cherries, the answer is because they're expensive. And they have gardens around which they can plant all the cherries they want. But that's not what you learn about plant planting, plant vaccination, solitary bees, bumblebees, their environmental function, kids don't know that. Kids don't know anything about it, kids don't learn biology and they learn biology after four years of biology in high school, you know what you can ask them? How many times has the professor taken them to the Botanical Garden or the orchard or wherever? You know what the answer is? 0 times, so you can't learn biology from books, you have to get to the place of the store, you have to see these plants, but unfortunately you Mrs. Attorney General don't talk about the problem at all. You don't see that problem. That's sad. We should yell out loud. And one more thing I'd like to point out. The big problem is that the pedophile register, there are over 1,600 not public, and that way the same children could be protected because their parents might know who the paedophiles are in their environment, but unfortunately they don't know because HDZ doesn't want to be public. Only these two things, if you did a register of pedophiles in public and finally started planting berries and your other fruit or those domestic varieties that don't require great chemical treatment, would you cheer up a lot of children, would you change adult consciousness? Simply the whole society would start eating healthy food, so not all the value can be shown in money. Human health must be a priority, and you don't care about human health. The food you give to children at school is unhealthy, what is healthiest and what you should, which is fruit and berries, and you give it to them on a drop and it is exclusively chemically treated. The area around the school is staring empty. Children could be taught so much about the herbs and the fruits of that plant that it's amazing, but unfortunately this government has no will, but we of the Living Wall do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141941	We now have final words on behalf of the club of representatives, first respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141942	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed attorney, what to say in the end, but that the children are everything. We must protect our children and, of course, allow them to all have the same right and have every child in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia the same, same possibility. The fact is, as I was saying earlier in my presentation that the problem of kindergartens and the way other EU members have solved it, which is the decentralised means that they must be allowed in undeveloped areas that every child can go to kindergarten, that he has the possibility of kindergarten from 3 to 6 years old, because this is also one of the reasons why the young family is leaving, as I said in the meaning of 1/3 of local self-government there are no cities and municipalities, there is no possibility of kindergarten and that the facilities and that we are praised at the bottom of the praises that the HDZ colleagues were just stressing, we are at the bottom of withdrawing funds from EU funds. I repeat again, we are at the bottom. So in Barcelona, the EU The Council of Europe then concluded in 2002 that by 2020 90% of children in the EU member area had the opportunity, each child had the same chance. As an educational institution, we won't talk like babysitting, because this child doesn't have an absolutely minimal chance that he didn't, after researching 17% of children compared to children who have the opportunity to be in kindergartens, just don't have a chance to reach higher education. I come from these parts, I know it's very difficult for these parents to come and where there are kindergartens to enroll their children, we do not encourage measures of parents who want to care for their children, not in that way. So in order to preserve the demographic image, which is catastrophic, 2/3 of Croatia is empty, I will not repeat all the figures because of repeating these figures really bad comes and we send a bad message, but I believe we can rewrite examples of those who have gone through it. In undeveloped areas of the central cash register from the budget to local self-government that do not have the possibility of their parents and local self-government paying their children's kindergarten to their children. It is not small money, who has 2, 3 children and if we move, although numerous local self-governments have taken certain measures themselves, but here are the results defeated, Croatia is at the bottom of the issue. Like I said, only 40% of kids don't have that chance. Also, health services are what is the care of both the ministry and the government and the health ministry, especially the county, to allow each child to have the possibility of a pediatrician. I know that health problems, I know, but if we don't have health services, if we don't have kindergartens, if we don't have free textbooks, and that's all in these areas of undeveloped seas the state helps. Is not the problem with this child that Croatia has 500, more municipalities and cities than China and America together. What more mayors and mayors have than China and America together. It's not that kid's problem or that area. And we must not allow that up in Croatia now, when we are independent, we have become a sovereign Republic of Croatia to have fewer children, but when the Turks and after the Turks were all together in areas that were demographically potent, such as the Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia, and even the backdrops of the Dalmatian Zagora, Herzegovina, Straight Wheels, Skradin, are now empty, literally empty. Start from Sinj to Trilj and you'll see towards Kamenskoga or down the ice if you see Omiško zazade, Makarska hinterland, you'll see the Vrličko area, here here and a colleague from the Vrličko area, literally everything is empty. If we don't allow these parents not to have their children's kindergarten and that they don't have health care, trust me they won't stay there, they won't stay. And we only have the opportunity as well as the other EU members of Europe who have dealt with it. They solved it, I suggested it here the esteemed attorney, but then from this place Minister Zalac said, I was with Zagora's T-shirt, I have no problem with it, I'm accentuating that problem in such a way, she said better that Zagora didn't give birth to you. After what I said, if you'd told me now, it would have been better if Zagora hadn't given birth to you. In addition to having praises beautiful, except that most praise the government’s measures, they obviously lost reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141943	Thank you very much. The next closing word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club will be the one to be represented by the respected representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141944	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected counselors for children with co-workers. I came forward for this debate, encouraged by the presentation of my colleague Pernar, who mentioned how some solutions should be found and Roma children, especially in Međimurje, and as a person who spent 15 years working uninterrupted at school with Roma children, I must really say that the problem should finally be worked out because how Roma children live, it is really out of their minds sometimes. Our children live very hard, but there you can really see cases for the section believe it or not and says MP Pernar that Rome should somehow get a job and I agree there. It should finally begin to address the Roma employment issue instead of this policy that we have, which is the policy of driving Roma into ghettos, where we have 12 exclusively Roma settlements in Međimurje, without even a single Croat, where they are given social aid and child benefits that are generally not spent on purpose, so they are not spent on purpose. Very little of that money that is given for these child benefits comes to children. And then we have terrible social, educational problems, basically we have people who are incapable of taking care of themselves their whole lives. I've been, I've visited all these villages, sometimes it's very dangerous to enter, dangerous to life, I've been in those houses, you have in one house, I don't know, 12 kids, father, mother, 3 dogs, I don't know, 10 squares of some improvised house. And those kids who came to school, as much as we teachers were trying to help them, we couldn't help them. I talked to the kids and I told them, don't be so aggressive, don't be so misbehaved, try to correct yourself somehow, otherwise you'll end up in juvie. Otherwise, he'll end up in prison, and all those children's answers were to a teacher, and I was born to go to jail. It's my mission. Imagine how creepy it is when a kid says it to you in the 5th, 6th grade and they go to prisons and those same students who told me that now sit in prison while I'm saying this here. So it doesn't have to be a prophet, it's just like that. And that's, that stems from the country's systemic concern for social problems and so on, this particular case that I'm talking about right now. We have another story, I'll never forget it about these Roma children, when, say, in the fifth grade of history, I said that the ancient Egyptians believed that when a man died, he lived the same life as he did so far, only in second place. And the Roma children looked at me, one of them got up and said, Master, please, if that's true, I'd rather die. So, these are terrible stories that have, like, been etched into my memory in some way for my whole life, and on this side I call on the lawyer, not just for her, but for all the institutions, all the ministers, to finally go into systematic resolution of these Roma issues, but not in a way that the Roma are disfellowshipped and given them some kind of social assistance that is not purposefully spent, but rather vice versa, to go into education and employment, that they are independent citizens who will care for themselves and ultimately, something useful to contribute to society. Today we have a situation in Međimurje that one minority, which has a 6-7% share in the population, commits 70% of the crimes. Is that normal? It's not. Is that who's worried? I don't know. But you should start worrying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141945	Thank you very much. And now the word will be taken by the esteemed Ombudsman for the children, I'm sure she will look back at both Indian bananas and bumblebees and all the other important things that are directly related to her work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141946	Here, at the beginning of my address, I would like to thank actually everyone who has been actively involved in this debate today. I would like to thank you, in fact, for all the suggestions and suggestions that have been sent in some way to improve the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children, as well as those relating to the production of this extensive document that we make each year, so compared to the report. I must say that it is the only possible document that gives a comprehensive and complete review of the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia. That is why he may be extensive, as far as the thickness itself is concerned, where he, we tried to embrace all the rights of children because they do not differ. So all the rights provided for by the Convention on the Rights of the Child are equally valuable, equally important, and they needed equal attention. I also have to say that this report is not based on some superficial impression, it's not based on one, I would say opinion or reflection, but is based on a comprehensive approach, concrete data and data obtained in direct and direct contact with applicants and children, so on the data that children themselves are pointing to. Today, during the debate, we met with a number of topics, topics were from violation of children's rights to protect against sexual exploitation and neglect. As part of this topic, we have been dealing with, or heard, various considerations concerning the amendment of the legislative framework, both in the criminal area and in the area of the amendment of the Law on the legal consequences of the conviction or of the e-punishment record or so on. Pedophile register. There they also, there we heard or referred to representatives of the issue of sexual exploitation when the perpetrator of the same member of the church, or priest, was. I must say that in relation to all these topics, our position is expressed in the report in relation to when the perpetrator of such crimes is a priest or a member of the church order, we are clear that this is not allowed as well as when the perpetrators of these sports clubs, playgrounds or any other, in any other place and we are talking about it on page 104 of our report. We have already advocated in this section over several years that professional secrecy be abolished in relation to the lawyer and so on and when the priest finds out about such a thing during his religion, so we will try to continue to advocate further in this direction because we believe that protection of children from sexual exploitation or sexual abuse should be absolute. When we talked about the availability of pre-school education or state-pedagogical standards in kindergarten, I will only give one piece of information that I used to make reports, this is the European Commission's 2016 data covering children in the Republic of Croatia at 75%, and the EU average was 95%. So it's about children aged 0 to 4 years. I also have to look at the inequality that is undeniably present in the Republic of Croatia, that it is actually about decentralisation which in this case led to inequality. The differences in the Republic of Croatia range between 19% and over 90%, there are counties with a coverage which I could say by defeating, and as we heard today and indeed so. Many studies show that this is exactly the period of children who in some ways determine and allow them to develop later in life. This is why it is extremely important for everyone to contribute, so I think about local self-government units, but also about the state, so that everyone contributes to trying to reduce this inequality or, as is the name of the campaign conducted by UNICEF in collaboration with the ministry, so Vrtic for each child, that it is indeed so in the area of our Republic. We also talked about, in a way, about the role of the lawyer's office which, I must say, acts except with the central office located in Zagreb, so at three other locations, the district offices were founded in 2007 just to allow their children to be available in an equal manner to access the lawyer's office. So, I must also say that this is the first law firm to set up its own district offices. So 20 people are working and it's done everything that's written in this report, and it's done a lot, a lot more than that. When we are told that perhaps the visibility of the office or the visibility of the Ombudsman must be greater, I must say that the daily extensive activity carried out by the entire office or by the Ombudsman, myself as a child defender, has also been monitored by the media according to the data you also have in the report, the work of the office has been published in 235 news in the printed media, and 1,369 publications have also been published on the portals and 118 publications have been made on television, and 98 publications have been made on the radio. So it's certainly possible that work and can always, as I know to say, there's always a possibility for better, you can increase visibility, but I think over the past year, with all the other activities, it was still in that part of the media follow-up actually quite large. What we also said, or what also occurred during the debate, was also a question of participation or violation of the rights of children to participate in political campaigns. And in this respect, I have already given my answer in a certain way, so in no way should adults be used by children to achieve some of their interests, not even in political campaigns. Therefore, there are no situations where children are exploited for this purpose, there must be no situation because they are indeed a violation of the rights of the child. Compared to most of this debate, which has actually referred to various forms of violence, I must say that I am very glad that violence has been recognized as one of the burning problems facing children in the Republic of Croatia and between that violence again on your part as well as by the office, it has been recognised of course online violence as a particular problem, as a particularly worrying area. In this work, the Ombudsman’s Office stated that there is no single, consistent, state policy specifically aimed at protecting children’s rights in the digital environment, or we indicate that it is necessary to provide children with the right to digital literacy and to learn about the various risks that the digital environment carries within it. We have proposed to the Government the introduction and implementation of a full policy of achieving children's rights in a digital environment and I must say that several ministries have already confirmed this and that certain activities will obviously begin. In this work I must also stress that it is an extremely large activity is the inclusion of operators, mobile operators who, together with civil society associations and under the auspices of the office, signed a Charter on the safety of children on the internet in Croatia, and this is important because of raising actually the level of public awareness in this particular problem. What the office will point to and what is extremely important is the involvement of healthcare professionals, i.e. medical professions, who need to define the health risks associated with the use of digital environment or digital technologies for children, and in this respect they also need greater awareness and awareness of the campaign to raise awareness about the health problems our children face, and let them unfortunately and already face each other for the daily use of digital technology. Our children are digital natives, so our children are someone who was born with this technology and someone who uses this technology not only for learning but also for entertainment, for everyday activity, for socializing, so their life, our children's life has completely changed by using this digital technology. She is here and we are obliged as adults to protect against excessive use, or would say, child abuse of that digital technology. In this sense, we also support all preventive activities that are carried out, but are not evenly distributed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and yet the children are not in the same position, and that is why we propose and consider and point to the Government the importance of introducing media literacy as a mandatory subject or compulsory programme in schools in which the largest number of children actually attend so that as many children in the field of our country as possible and not as familiar with the risks associated with the digital environment as well as with the proper use of this digital environment. Of course, there is also the need to support parents, and many parents do not manage in their parenting role in a digital environment, given the lack of knowledge of technology, however, there is also a need to support parents, as well as parent education, of course previous and education of teachers who will teach children, our children and enable them to enter this world of digital technology more easily, not in a technological sense, but in terms of certain rules, or certain frameworks in which they will act. What I wanted to say in the end is that apart from the fact that individuals are talking to us, besides parents, adults, institutions are talking to us when they are in specific situations where they do not find solutions themselves, then they are asking for our help. Also, parents and children most often address the office when they face the inability of institutions to solve their problem. So, what the office is solving and here giving a presentation of individual cases, it serves as a basis to show that the general appearance or office is working through the recommendations of the individual and those of general nature, to actually improve the rights of all children of the Republic of Croatia. The office is seeking to help the government create better conditions for the life of children and address observed difficulties. However, what I must stress again concerns us with the acceptance of our messages but from legislative initiatives and proposals. I repeat again, they are based on concrete data, or direct knowledge that we draw from daily work. We note when we talk about recommendations, that a large part of our recommendations are generally respected but that rarely comes to their realization. Every shift and every effort, every manifestation of the will to make things better for us as an office of joy but we must not and cannot be satisfied with the existing situation until we meet the obligations to which we are bound by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. So we're a party to this convention and it binds us, it's above the law, so it gives us the obligations we've made to our children. Talking to children from different parts of Croatia, during 2018, I saw joy, I saw people full of potential but unfortunately also reflections of missed opportunities and wrong decisions. Despite the positive changes introduced by the authorities of state and local self-government, which are present and important, which are said more in the 2018 report, I am of the opinion that we have less and less time to restore our children's trust and give them hope for a better present and future. And that is why I will complete my presentation to the coma and to all candidates for the European Parliament, I would like to tell all of you so to the parliamentary representatives, but also to us who are working with children again, to invest in children for long-term goals because it is the best way to break the cycle of poverty, inequality and conflict and to invest in the future, to involve children in decisions that concern them, to act according to what we hear from children and to take responsibility for decisions concerning children. Let us show our children and ourselves that we can fulfill what we promised them by setting up a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, celebrate the 30th birthday of the Convention work, making sure that every child in Croatia gets the opportunity to grow up in freedom, dignity and with their rights. And I finally believe that this report will also be and will contribute to this important social task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141947	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141948	Thank you very much. Your Honorary Attorney, of course we will accept your report and sign these last words that children are all we have and the only future is in children. You mentioned here in the final report and digital technology, here I forgot, during my debate I focused second, I would ask you a question. So only in Croatia are base stations set up, teleopers set up without a building permit and breaking and spatial plans, and I know about numerous base stations that are illegally installed teleoperators with kindergartens, with hospitals where our children are and even with the windows of children where they live in their homes, regardless of their parents' opposition, it has become a monster in the Republic and we know that electromagnetically by numerous studies of health organizations, according to numerous studies, they are harmful to the health of our children, how many of these objects do you have and what do you do to protect children from electromagnetic radiation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141949	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141950	It's hard for me to say the exact number of cases we're dealing with, but parents show up, adults who mention it, and it's just that it's very disturbing to actually be able to build base stations in different places where they live and children. Of course, our recommendations are to remove such cells, of course, first looking for a report and an indication but they will certainly be and are directed to remove such base stations unless they are indeed found to be harmful to the development, health or welfare of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141951	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141952	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed attorney, precisely because you mentioned your role in making recommendations, remarks, comments on certain laws, and expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that these recommendations simply, some recommendations and perhaps a number of recommendations, I don't know exactly what amount you were talking about, the percentage, were not accepted. I'm not just saying how frustrating that might be, but is that even possible? Because if you are, by your own duty, you must warn, and since you are already warning that there is a possibility of discrimination in a certain law, isn't it normal, logical that what you have noticed is actually being corrected? Here we are yesterday or we recently talked about the Law on Stanopotic, Stanobuilding and you have warned of some irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141953	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed state's attorney, please, for the children.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141954	In my presentation, the first presentation and address before noon, I cited the percentages of acceptance of recommendations that in some ways grieve us and actually worry us. As far as individual cases are concerned, the situation is slightly better and there is indeed cooperation with the institutions that we point to, that is, with all institutions and everyone we point to is relatively good and more favourable, there is a percentage of about 70%. However, when we talk about some general recommendations, then the percentage of acceptance is 50% and we cannot actually be satisfied with it. When it comes to normative recommendations and suggestions, then the percentage is only 22%. And it really saddens us because like I said, and now I'm going to do it again, so our work and suggestions are based on experience and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141955	Thank you. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions. Now I'd like to make a note, so we were scheduled to proceed with the proposal for a private protection law, first reading, P.Z. No. 635. However, we will not, we will finish work today and this will be the 1st point tomorrow, so on Friday at 9.30, 1st point instead of the point that was scheduled, instead of the point of the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017 will be the 1st point of the Proposal for a Law on Private Protection, First Reading, P.Z. No. 635. And now I'm gonna take a break by 6:00 when the vote is scheduled as you've been notified. It's the 17th 27th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141956	A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2018, the applicant is the Ombudsman for children, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 120 for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2018 is the applicant of the National Council for Human Resources Development. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the National Council for Human Resources Development for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 97 votes for, 19 abstentions have reached a conclusion as proposed by the parent constituency working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141959	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system at the 53rd session held on 11 April, decided on a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted to this committee by representatives Goran Maras and Ranko Ostojić, on 11 April 2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee, by majority vote, 7 for and 2 against, gave the following opinion, I will read only the conclusion. In view of the above, and the insight into the phonogram of the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament since 11 April 2019, the Committee is of the opinion that the presidents have not violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-09-0.u141960	I thank the board president. In accordance with Article 236. The Rules of Procedure on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be decided without debate, and I therefore give the following conclusion to the vote. The opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is hereby adopted on the basis of an opinion request on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representatives Gordan Maras and Rank Ostojić. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for and 12 against the conclusion proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And that's when we came to the end of the vote. Tomorrow, at 9.30 p.m., the proposal for a private protection law continues. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 7:30.
