ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138960	CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.00 HOURS It's been an hour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're going to take a stand on behalf of the club. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, the Honored Representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, is not there, he is losing his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Bernarda Topolko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138961	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs. Namely, I'm going to use this break for free speech, to say something about Medjugorje. And what bothers us Međimurci. In fact, we know that Međimurje is the smallest and most developed county of the Republic of Croatia. With the lowest number of unemployed, it is situated between the Mura River and the Drava River, according to the 2015 data, we have 112 731 inhabitants, 76 Međimurac gave their lives in battle in the Homeland War and you are probably wondering what the problem is. The Međimurians fought twice for liberation during their history. For the first time in 1818, they finally managed to lead Dr. On New Year's Eve, January 9, 1919, we celebrated for the first time, this year we celebrated 100 years of the release of Međimurje from Hungary. The second time was April 6, 1945. On January 9th, this High House declared the Međimurje County, but what happened? To this day, we have neither the Mura River nor Međimurje. We would change the anthem and add the river to the Mura. Since this year marks the 100-year banishment of Hungarians from our territory, we think it would be appropriate for Mura to finally enter the anthem. Namely, Zrinski Guard sent a letter to this home and requested the inclusion of the Mura River in an anthem. It was about a month ago, so far we have no answer on the subject, we do not have an appointment when it could be on the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. A few years ago, Mons suggested the same thing. Juraj Kolaric, however, did not pass. At the beginning, if possible, here are just a few examples, which is that in the early 1990s the Sea of Sin was inserted on the proposal of our Međimurec, poet Milivo Slaviček, who was then president of the ancient society of Međimurac in Zagreb. Also, throughout history, our anthem has experienced several more changes. It's, it's been a happy bet, before it's been garlic, it's... It was fast, its people had been home before, and we see no reason why the river Mura could not be inserted, or the text of the anthem reads to run Dravo, Savo run, so instead of this first run, we would like to insert Muro, Dravo, Savo run. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I am asking all parliamentary representatives, especially I appeal to the Međimurci in this House to support this proposal and to take the opportunity to for the 100th anniversary of the celebration and Međimurje's age belong to the anthem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138962	Thank you very much. Here, that's what we're done with today's work. I have announced the beginning of next week and the point, therefore, I wish you only a pleasant weekend. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 13.05 p.m. The next Club of Representatives of that CNS in the name of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138964	I thank the esteemed vice president, respected colleagues and colleagues, today I would like to recapitulate a little bit, and certainly in some announcement of new false news, disinformation, regular midwives, with all the efforts and results we have in carrying out the curricula reform, and in general, in the work on the education sector in the last year and a half almost where, almost two years. At first there was a lecturing, a great fear, an end to the lecture, something that was electoral, remains electoral, automatically means that it is abolished if we speak specifically of Anna Frank. However, it is said immediately, teachers choose, choice is the basis, not imposing, but the choice of each teacher, teacher, to play what is offered, to choose what is best for his students, so we now have the latest results where 8344 classroom teachers, teachers, Librarians, and between 55 and 90% of their total number where more than 700 works were selected, among the elected ones are the "Ane Frank Diaries" and "Current Hunter", "Little Prince", etc. But that's not all. So far, $200,000 per year has been allocated for the equipment of libraries and books. As of next year, through various measures, it will be 50 million kunas, 200 thousand, 50, but it is only one of the smaller parts of the 2.5 billion that will be provided for reforms and for higher education for primary schools, secondary schools and all of them, therefore, we are talking about vocational schools and all that is done in all fields. The tablets were quite this interesting topic, imagine, some pills didn't have cameras or some just had up to almost one book they had Q-ar codes, the others didn't have, and it was a big affair how it would, you know, be able to function. Now go pills if the School of Life has shown that in first grade they don't need every child, they will get for group work, but fifth, seventh, eighth, in those strict areas, high school will all get, of course, pills according to public procurement and that fear has disappeared, and we were so afraid for poor children that they won't have a camera to scan one of the 26 books with the Q-ar code. Kurikulami also, for the first time in history, agreed, whatever you want to call, left, right, history, 39 curiculas were passed, ready and made books for the new school year, for the first time in history, and also there were doubts of different disinformation. The last of these same inscriptions, fears, mental care was the school's networks, and none of the documents said that anything was abolished, the guidelines were adopted now at public consultation, all of us and we can bear examples, and the school's networks were brought by founders or cities and counties. So, none of the documents state the termination. What are the guidelines doing? What's their goal? To ensure equal availability of quality education. Why should we have 5 parent schools with 5 principals, 5 secretaries, 5 administrative staff, accounting and all, when it can be one and remaining schools still teachers there. We have a school today that has more teachers than students. That's what the guidelines say. To raise the level of equipment of educational institutions. Every school next year gets a million and a half kuna for equipment. Every school. You'll see, it'll feel. And there's probably gonna be some hair in the egg. So, rationally dispose of funds from the state budget and decentralised resources, that's the goal. I would also, as one of the measures, call on all other ministries and vertically all state institutions to check their diplomas. We see that in the first two months, 222 more teachers leave school or professors. Whether it's connected or not, I don't know, but I'm sure this way too, I'd like to invite the colleges to deliver the probabilities of the credentials for a diploma check and get it over with once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138965	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138966	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138967	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since next week is not a session, so I will take advantage of this last day, the nearest next week, and actually remind us all, that on May 12th, it is marked as an international sisterhood day. So, first of all, just a short history, so, in Florence, Italy, 12th of May 1820. It was the birth of a woman who was about to change her sisterhood’s relationship in hospitals and help many of the victims of war, to survive in a new battle, in fact after the wound, that is, the struggle for life. Of course it's about... which is also the first woman, which is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Red Cross, that is, the Order of Honor, 3 years before the death of 1910. And she also started her first school, for the education of medical resources in England. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now where are we in this whole story? So, this international day, which is coming to us, is actually being marked as part of the international week, the week of the sorority, which has already started since 5-12 May and I want to, of course, congratulate and take this opportunity to talk about a few facts the speaker does not understand./... in front of a less and less colleagues but well. In Croatia there are currently 38,000 nurses or technicians who are working, so I can say under not exactly ideal working conditions, since estimates in the system are missing nearly 12,000, so it sounds amazing, 12,000 nurses or technicians. The number says how busy they are, in fact, overloaded and observing statistics according to the number of EU countries, we come up with devastating data. According to the number of nurses per 100,000 people who are mostly used as a parameter for a number of other things and I will mention one, the Republic of Croatia with 144 nurses is just ahead of Romania, which is 66. So, the best disproportionate is going to say that in the EU, say Luxembourg has 1072, well, it's a small state, we can say understandable but let's say neighbouring Slovenia, 307. Almost twice as much. And more than double. When we say that we have today talked about the number of police officers or it was mentioned that we have almost 500 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants where we are one of the most numerous in Europe, only behind us are Greece 492, and we 490, for example, Malta and Cyprus can understand, then we actually see maybe what our priority is. I'm not saying that you should maybe have fewer police officers, but first of all I say that they should be more paid and relieved of certain parts of the job. That's funny how my colleague Lenart left and said there was no one in the Parliament, right, now he's hurting me by not listening to my argument. So, what's there I think is crucial that we miss it, and then what are we doing as part of it? So there are certain undergraduate and graduate studies, however, for the sisterhood, so it's three years old and five years old. After that, we have a problem that the level of this education to nurses and teachers of the sorority is not recognised or is not valorized by a salary coefficient unless they are the main nurses of the hospital. Why does it matter to us? Because they're leaving us. They're going to work for more money. So it's the first problem. Not everything. We also have some good examples, an active HZZ measure to support employment to acquire first work experience and traineeships passed through last November 30th and no funds have been spent and we are still waiting. However, the same possibility should be for the magistrates, as well. The nurses who are currently around 1100 in their degree of calling and the part certainly meets the conditions for traineeship, are also waiting and are not taken care of, so we are missing but what we have, we need to keep. And I think, in conclusion, I just want to say that we should absolutely focus more on and all the medical staff, especially where it's deficitary, in deficiting calls and, of course, within this week of the sorority, I would like to congratulate, of course, everyone who is working hard and absolutely giving them a new incentive for further work, and hopefully the Ministry of Health will recognize it through the provision of traineeship and the valorisation of acquired calling, adequately rewarding them, and then we have no such problem with the lack of thread with leaving the workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138968	Thank you, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138969	Representative Stjepan Curaj of the HNS Club applied for a position on behalf of his club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138970	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, only then did I not report briefly on this subject but let me only comment briefly, that I think it is very clear when you work and when the minister is doing one of the best and greatest jobs and in this government and in general, especially in the segment of education reform and that you have a clear and unequivocal statement from us from the HNS that it is the only and the basic, the main condition then we can actually look for motives somewhere else in these statements, because I believe that they are not actually introduced to this, reduced to this strong work that is done rather than to some alternative models of maybe regrouping in the ruling majority or whatever, we remain on our own and I can continue to call on everyone to work constructively. As for the textbook, yes, the additional funds are secured go and the election, so one more big plus, I think it's absolutely clear to everyone what the goal is. But what I wanted to say today and talk about here is how they scream, eight times, and that's what I'm counting on just at the point of the debate on the Civil Service Act, so not replicas, individual clubs, but it's like one debate. Eight times I'm talking about an anti-hazard law, which I want it to be, I want it to be passed, and it's a system and a way of getting into the state and public service. I've been here, like I said, seven times before, and I'm going to suggest more. I only hope that this number will not be like this, I hope that I will have a point next to me and that it will be, bearing fruit as soon as possible, and this is about a unique system of admission to state and public service through a single competition, a single ranking list that implements an independent body, modelled by nothing revolutionary, no hot water, as set out in the EPSO Agency that does so for the European Commission. It conducts an evaluation on the basis of clearly defined criteria, for clear areas and establishes a single ranking list. And then the people on that ranking list apply to open competitions for public or public service, in principle that the best, best-quality, with the best results would have the opportunity to compete and be invited to that narrow round of talks and further decisions. We may be doing a little bit more of an objective, objective assessment, but I think we should, because I think that's why our youngsters are going out not only better, but also a certain lack of perspective, because it's always going through somewhere else, it's all already agreed, it's already known somewhere, it's all party, it's like this, it's just friends, it's best friends, whatever. We should once stop these speculations at the end, once and for all, and that is exactly the way, a unique, independent competition conducted by the Agency for External Evaluation and Education, as it conducts the prom, and for testing with all potential candidates who want to do their careers tomorrow continue or start in the state or public service. By clearly defined criteria, a unique ranking list, when a competition occurs, people register from that list and make their place based on their position on the list and people as much as they apply, whether they are ahead or behind them. No wisdom. And by doing so more, once and for all, we remove the suspicion that someone is employed somewhere or anyone, whose whatever it means and we give faith in institutions, and thus we allow the highest quality, that the most capable people do in the state service because we always know that we have 30% surplus, 15% missing, we want to make the next period when natural outflows of people go into retirement, that the new ones that come, really those who want it as a career, who know it will and can do so and make public service more economical and efficient as its purpose and therefore I say, once again I appeal I will continue to do so. And I hope that really this number will not be this number, and that through the current hour and through the proposals of the Ministry of Administration it will live, even if at the first step, and we start to think, work and achieve this better perspective and life in Croatia. Because that's actually what we give and remove any doubt about any dishonest or not knowing what other actions to be employed by someone. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138971	Mrs. Devereaux. Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138972	Thank you very much, Vice President. So on behalf of the HNS Club today, we would like to talk about the European Commission's recommendations on education reform. When you praise yourself, they say you're not doing well, but when you're praised by an international institution, then it has weight and we can say that we're doing a great job. That's why I'm going to take the right to give a few facts today. In fact, the positive changes in science and education that take place thanks to the work of Minister Blaženka Divjak and her team have again received international confirmation and a positive assessment by the European Commission. Moreover, yesterday's statement, or recommendations, supports the implementation of curricula reform in Croatia and not only more as a pilot of the project but also requires that they be implemented fully. We also have the training of teachers who are needed and without whom this reform could not be fully implemented. And exactly what the European Commission is asking of us is happening in our education. Reform has been since fall in all schools. I will provide concrete activities and data for which the Ministry of Science and Education, Minister Blaženka Divjak and her team are responsible. Three reform processes have been launched in the past year, a legislative reform of general education, a reform of vocational education, which is also required by the European Commission and changes in higher education. In 74 Croatian schools, an experimental program is being implemented today. Legal changes in vocational education have opened up the possibility of reforming vocational education and thus finally harmonising with the labour market. Eight thousand new scholarships for students have been secured. For the first time we have 3400 SEM scholarships a year and the goal of these scholarships is to motivate students to study study programmes from STEM fields and increase success and completion. 373 million kuna is provided for scientific centres of excellence, a billion kuna from eu funds for scientific equipment and infrastructure. It provides opportunities for the employment of 350 young scientists and thus the remaining of them and their families in Croatia. There are also scientific centres of excellence, the Croatian Foundation for Science. Minister Divjak is doing a serious job in this government and instead of all of us working together to implement reforms and creating a competitive and healthy society where our citizens will live better quality, where our children will have better education and work opportunities, we still have individuals from the group who obstruct every shift for the better. We all advocate reform, but when concrete steps occur where something needs to be done, that's where things change. So in this case, we have on the one hand the European Commission, which praises and supports Minister Divjak, and on the other hand we have Milan Bandic, who crashes. And since he's already showing such an interest in education, he'd be better off investing money in school equipment, investing in sanitary knots, in the recovery of asbestos roofs. And finally, what to say, smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138973	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138974	We are going to the sixth club, the club of representatives of the HNS, a respected colleague, Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138975	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, in September there is a curriculative reform in all schools, those who are key in implementing this reform, teachers, teachers, full staff of primary and secondary schools are expected to be far more responsible, autonomy, learning, and certainly... The HNS as a party that has taken responsibility in this government for carrying out a curriculative reform to reward this additional work. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following this, we at the HNS have made a proposal to raise salaries for all primary and secondary school employees, our initiative, we have informed our partners in the government, the competent ministries. What is also important is the goal of bringing together these increases in comparison with the introduction of a reform of education in our schools. According to our plan, the increase would affect over 68,000 employees of all, from teachers, directors, educational associates, technical staff and of course the calculation of how much this would burden the state budget. On average, by calculating each employee in primary and secondary school depends on both the internship and the function, the salary could grow up to 600,00 kn. It's high time all the educators got a raise, how much memory, how much memory I remember, I think in 2014 that the last regulations were when it was discussed and when the wages were as high as they were. In order for the implementation of the curricula reform to be successful, of course those who implement it must be further stimulated because they are in any case a pillar of educational reform. As a partner in the government with a very clear agenda and which keeps the reform pace in its portfolios, we believe that coalition partners will also accept our proposal in a keen way and that our teachers, teachers, will receive even higher salaries at the beginning of this school year. Of course, education has no alternative regarding further development and prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. The burden that will be, our proposal is for the increase to be 6%, means in part this year, means from the 9th month, and teaching in full for the 2020 budget. We are primarily based on projected GDP growth, which should be close to 3%, which is some increase from 6.5 billion to 7 billion by the end of the year. What we certainly want to stress is that it is high time that certain key elements in our society of rewards are primarily people who work in education. In the budgets and these and the following years, for the next years, we have enough resources for them, and also that curricula reform can be implemented entirely. Therefore, I believe this proposal also when voting the budget in this HS you will accept all colleagues and colleagues, and I believe above all that the successful implementation of the curricula reform and, above all, what is important is that our educators, teachers, teachers, feel equally valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138976	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138977	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Now, today I'm going to use these five minutes to talk to the public, first of all, to inform them that the final proposals of the House Loan Subsidisation Act and the Social Encouragement Act have been adopted today. Something that is very interesting, has proved to be true for our citizens in recent years, because first of all, both laws aim at encouraging and demographic renewal of society, but also urban regeneration of settlements and, of course, reducing emigration, especially young families. What's new, I think, let's say, let's repeat what's really the point when we talk about subsidizing loans, which is that in 5 years, you basically pay half of the credit rate, or 30-51% of the credit rate, depending on the deadline, the maturity of the credit itself, the state in 5 years, you actually co-finance the interest that through the anuities, since all the loans that are higher or higher than the annuities, so it's always the first one I don't know how many years is half-and-a-half, or the repayment of principals and interest, and that's actually the most complex example of the 3 and 4 thousand kuna loan rate, actually 1 and 2 thousand kunas of effective wars that our citizens could pay. Thus, in 2017, it was granted actually 2315 requests, while almost 3,000 applications were already granted in 2018, means a total of over 5300 requests in the past 2 years, which is a good trend and we expect so much about 3 thousand, perhaps more approved requests this year and what I also want to note that all can start collecting documents, if it is necessary to sign certain pre-contracts, of course in cooperation with its selected banks, because in September it is expected to call just as well as last year's next tender. I think what's novelty, which is certainly commendable, is that until now, if a child is born in a period of use of a subsidized loan, it means within these initial 5 years, two years a subsidy is extended, which is not a small thing. Moreover, what is a novelty and what has been adopted by these amendments has just been further subsidisation of the loan for 1 year for each member of the household of the applicant who, at the time of the conclusion of the contract, is less than and is not 18 years old. So for every child you have in your family, in the household, a person under 18, you have not 5 but 6, 7 etc. And then for every child born for another two years. So I think that this is really commendable and this change, and the concept project itself, which certainly brings results, a lot of young families precisely because of this cheaper way of providing housing because we know that real estate binds and people, that they are harder to decide to go further, and especially if we allow them to do so in a cheaper, more appropriate and accessible way, that they choose and stay here, especially when we look at different subsidisations of individual areas, there which are lower rates of the growth index, that we absolutely recorded them there, especially when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja or Osijek-Baranja County, more interest and more. I think that, as far as some amounts are concerned, 80 million kuna was secured in 2019, out of that 42 million kuna for the payment of subsidies from previous years and 4 million kuna for these new ones that will be. So in 2020 there will be 114 million kunas, 2021. 150 million kunas, etc. As for the Law on Social Encouragement, there are also several new amendments that are in favour of our citizens. Very briefly, therefore, there is a possibility of resolving the housing issue through a wider circle of citizens who buy apartments on the free market, especially, where I must stress the protected tenant because we have had a lot of controversy about it, here the interest rate on public funds is reduced to 3 per cent, which is extremely interesting and therefore makes it the most favourable such financial arrangement on the market, and besides the construction there is also a purchase, the possibility of buying apartments precisely for deficiting interests, and introduces order regarding preventing the abuse of these public funds in the use of apartments, you know that there were those signs of media around rentals, etc., therefore, it stops at the end and bans on giving exactly in rentals and apartments bought 10g. Before the entry into force of this law, the limits of building land and other conditions are more clearly defined in order to make it more favourable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138978	I thank my colleague Curai. The following statement of view on behalf of the HNS Club, a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138980	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I did not intend to talk about this, but I thought first of all I would repeat it nine times and for this speaker a proposal to set up a way, to change ways of starting a working relationship from receiving into the state and public service, but let me start by looking at this initiative too, so on. In fact, a false initiative that aims to discredit not only what Minister Divjak is doing in implementing the curriculative reform but also to offend the work of the profession because imagine under those paroles, says a librarian or teacher cannot decide what will be read in their classrooms, based on their subjects, in their courses based on curricula. It's really a little weird. So, here is not only insulting and raises questions, quasi the question of the ministry itself, but also the people themselves, because the list of mandatory lecturers was published in January in the National Journal and is easily available to all, and this was followed by a polling questionnaire from the ministry in which 8,344 people participated, of which 4,770 teachers of the class education, 1,598 teachers of Croatian language in primary school, 1,011 teachers of Croatian language in high school, 752 Librarians in primary school and 214 librarians in high school that these people obviously have no idea, should have nothing to do with what they teach our children etc., I don't think that this is an absolute argument. And by the basis of this survey, whether extensive lists of works have also been produced which these persons believe should be part of the list of electoral literature. So, no one had an impact on that poll, so that's what we did exactly that step we made, as a political step forward if you want from the CNS that the entire one ministry has given through the curriculative reform and through the choice just to create one synergy and policy, the political framework that we have provided but also the professions that they choose to actually achieve the best result, which is that the profession needs to implement education reform first. So any manipulation of this poll and charges on the account of the ministry and the minister are absolutely inappropriate and I think it may be just an introduction to something else, which is that for the first time since Monday 17.6., we have the possibility that books, textbooks will be chosen by these teachers, teachers, and by application. And they have the right to choose which textbook is best suited to them both to their teaching and learning and to pass on knowledge to children. An anonymous app where they have nothing to explain to their director and their participants why they chose one textbook or another. I see perhaps that reason because there have been pressures announced, because there are big money spinning, which book will be used where and for what and in what extent will be printed, which publishers are here in play and it is not the ministry doing it again, but the profession. I can only see here some interesting lobbies that that's why these protests are going the previous way of deciding, that this is actually the way that it is, which would obviously be offensive if we were looking at a parallel, it's just trying to eliminate any possible influence. And any influence on choice is prohibited by law, and even after an educational inspection has come out, and if there is reasonable doubt that there are elements of the crime of corruption or abuse of office then there should be some other bodies involved. And I simply see that it may be a prelude hidden behind some ideological or inappropriate quotes derived from the context of books that are on the electoral content, a broader list and which do not mean that they will be read at all in one classroom, they do not have to because they are elective and the teachers themselves will evaluate. Especially more about what you're doing reading if I've been able to see for high school. This is the review, I say again and I will finish with what I started, and that is to think about the possibility of a public and public service invitation to work and to work on an external agency, an external evaluation agency, a single list that will allow the most competent, those with the best results to be invited to tender when they apply and to remove any suspicions of any kind, and we have recently seen some inscriptions of certain crimes, where some tests have been given in advance, this must no longer be in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138981	I thank my colleagues Curaju.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138982	Mr. Stjepan Curaj, position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138983	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to take a brief look forward once and perhaps a link since yesterday I think we had a chance to read about certain difficulties in a strong drug, one of the very nice and commendable projects, Project "Wish". I am saying this, of course, because these difficulties are most visible, where elsewhere, but where it may be the worst, and unfortunately this is with me in Slavonia and Baranja, so this is also what I think of the town of Belisce, the municipality of Ceminac, but also in many associations not only in this area but throughout Croatia. Only for a short time, so he has the task of providing the European Social Fund, primarily for nearly a billion kuna, two-year salaries for about 7,000 women who, as a rule, mean about 3,000 kuna net wages, which generally helps older and powerless. So, the project has absolute layering at a higher level of impact that those women who work on those who are targeted users of the project in the extreme or whole economy and the inclusion of more employable or as highly employable women are listed. And these exactly, these two main objectives are met and I think somewhere in signing is actually with a contractual body, and that's primarily the HZZ agreed to pay 40% of the amount immediately, so pro futuro, the total value of the project, and the rest is paid by evaluation. The evaluation shall be carried out every 3 months after the reports have been issued, which shall be 45 days to carry out the report or to be evaluated and on a 30-day payment deadline. And that's where the problem arises. It is a total of 75 days that someone should wait for a certain asset that he probably spent. And now the biggest problem is, in fact, with associations that have limited funding opportunities, so they usually have some possibility of financial frameworks, borrowings, people most often have to guarantee their personal assets for projects of the association, this has happened before with EU projects because they always give retroactive funds, and there are some units that have not jumped in, but it is waiting almost if I understand it well for 6 months. And all that praise is being brought into question by a valuable and good project. Now why is that? In some countries, this evaluation documentation is carried out by even private companies, which have clearly, strictly listed opportunities in case of a delay or any poor work done. That's what our civil servants like about us. I believe there must be some good ones, as always, but apparently there's been a leak. Whether they're undercover, whether they're too busy, whether they're too few, whether some people don't even know, whatever, but this responsibility needs to be brought to their names and last names. And all the time we're talking about some three-way administration here today when we're talking about new laws and laws and that's what we're talking about all the time. The reception system is the first step to allow us the best quality, and not the most similar, and here I say maltenes but 10 times, allow an independent body to run tests and form a ranking list, a unique ranking list for admission to the state and public service. Point. Then there's no discussion about the assistant whether or not she's gonna be headmaster, anyway, it's gonna be the one who satisfied the best on the test. How does the European Commission do that? So so can we, who's defending us, why we didn't do it 20 years ago, 10 years ago, 5 years ago, why I've been saying it here 10 times and I'll be saying it all the time. Absolutely no matter if someone was a minister, an assistant minister, like this, he means if he's on the ranking list of 1,000 people 58 and he's the first to report, those before him haven't called, he's the first candidate for the interview and the next 5, etc. She might not have problems like this, because we always say we have 30% extra employees, and 15% are missing. Why? 30% of those who are weaker workers, and we're short 15% who are really good quality. Let's make it possible for these quality come, let's give them perspective, then we wouldn't have this debate whether out of these 92 assistants someone will be a special advisor with 30% lower salary or be some director who will be 150 or maybe someone 3 will be, etc., if something is a competition then it must be clearly made that based primarily on objective criteria. And I expect Minister Pavic to report to us as soon as possible, by the name and last name who is responsible and why there has been a failure and that what, as soon as possible, is resolved because anything contracts this valuable projects, and we are all aware that they are and that one of many, must not happen again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138984	Thank you, too. I welcome the representatives and representatives of the Croatian Community of municipalities, they are here with us and we are pleased to welcome them with a round of applause, please. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138985	Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138986	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will take this opportunity once again to support all the efforts of the city and county authorities of Osijek-Baranja County and the city of Osijek along with all the municipalities which these days face one of the most intense pestilences of mosquitoes that threaten the quality of life in this area and represent not only a major public health problem but also an economic problem. First of all, when we talk about livestock, when we talk about tourism and all the branches of the economy suffer, they suffer, of course, and what's most important, we talk about health care, or the kind of health potential threat, because you know that mosquitoes carry a huge risk of transmission of infectious diseases, and not so long ago was that Zika virus that we all feared, where even the cases were recorded in our neighborhood. For many years, the city of Osijek has been providing funds for the treatment of mosquitoes, but this is not nearly enough in view of the location of the town itself, the proximity of the Kopački rita, or the flood of two rivers within 20, 30 km from the city itself, so something that is absolutely in the flight of mosquitoes that can even move up to 70 km. And then what happens? I would just mean no matter how much in Osijek and the city of Osijek will be treated and treated by mosquitoes, it obviously shows insufficient if they do not do so and the surrounding municipalities, unless the county is engaged. I think that now we've come to the throat, I'm commending all the efforts of course and announcements from the government that it will help, I'd just remind myself that I was here in this house saying that in the 11th month. Last year, even by amendment, I was asked to secure the funds that I received assurances that all resources would be provided or that the government would jump to help as it was in previous years if the need arises because we need to think about prevention and not about reacting when it is too late. The obligation is every...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138987	Just a second, buddy Bull, please, can you keep it down a notch? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138988	Thank you. The obligation is for every municipality, city, county and city of Zagreb to ensure, according to the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases, treatment and contracts, professional supervision with a competent public health institution but 60% of municipalities in the area of Osijek-Baranja County did not do so, those who did, are from 5,000 to 50,000 kuna, therefore according to their fiscal capacities and more than enough and there is already an alarm that the state should be involved, it is not only Osijek, it is a problem and Zadar, so I heard some day and in Zagreb are being treated but here when it comes to the level of life and economy threat, so what will be in Zadar to make it happen so that tourists run away, I think that all the alarms will work out to run there every possible minister and bring a bag of money just to prevent it, is it's going to happen in Zadar and Osjek and Osjeka County something different? I'm sorry that he didn't get involved earlier, which is now only the county that was supposed to react earlier, she had to, I'm sorry that it wasn't, that the Prime Minister's promises that I got here didn't come into fruition before because now this is a fire-fighting process and we have to work on prevention, prevention, treatment because it exists and it should be considered in advance, and it shouldn't have been too much of an expert knowing that when temperatures are high, the floods are even higher, that they will benefit from faster development and greater development and larva and mosquitoes, respectively, and mosquitoes. And let it be our last time and a reminder that we don't wait for the fire to burst, that we don't wait for it to become a health, economic threat because I'm wondering, Zadar has mosquitoes he's always had, but this is how it comes I doubt it would just wait for the last moment and that's how it would go. And that when our tourists start leaving, there's a tourist in Baranja. So I welcome all the government's efforts, and I hope that this will be a quality solution, and I am actually announcing this, and I hope that it will already be included that it will not now be from some reserve funds, but rather in the budget for next year, there is also a representative of the Ministry of Finance and that we will be able to work systematically on this health and economic problem that he has become. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138989	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you that those who do not want to continue working come out. My colleague Strenja Linic, I apologize. Here you go, Mr. Chury.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138990	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I would like to announce here and also propose perhaps even before the formal legislative proposal which would refer to the intervention relating to 3 tax laws, the Tax on Income, the Tax on Profit and the Law on Value Added Tax. Namely, since we are a tourist country and welcome many of our guests from abroad in which some other rules apply, some other obvious habits and ultimately legal provisions. I'm going to mention just an example of the introduction of Sweden which plans in the next few years to completely abolish the currency in terms of printing money, so to transfer the currency into an email form absolutely abolished bills, today I think there is even a justification, there are, of course, reasons that are against, today simply the vast majority of all payments take place through transactions on PO devices, therefore, or card payments. And then when such guests come to Croatia, they bring their cards and pay cards, which is not disputed, but there is a situation where, for example, a reward for employees or a popular tip that the guest normally gives in cash is unable to give with a card or is not treated equally. According to our law, this same tip is not the subject of taxation if it is in cash but if it is given through a card, POS device, then it is primarily calculated on the VAT rate, so for some example a tip from a 1000 kuna bill someone leaves 100 kuna as some 10% which in Western countries is a standard, just for your own sake, it is immediately taken from 20 kuna. The other 80 are subject to income tax rules, which means that, practically, when all charges are taken away, it remains about 50% of the original prize. So I think it's absolute, or even VAT, that means less than 40 of the original and 50% of what's being taxed on income. I believe that once a very precise amendment to those laws, tax laws could allow both the prize and the popular tip, which would be untaxable in some amount of 10.15% of the amount of the bill. Why wasn't that before? We had no fiscalized accounts before, and there could have been severe abuse of the same, that someone was reporting through the card more things that belong to that untaxed part, now every POS excerpt must have its other side in a fiscalized account and then it's very easy to determine what the customer, the customer of the service, how much he wanted and how much he paid the service, how much it was accounted for, what all the fees were paid, which was fiscalized and on the other hand how much that tip was then. Then it can't happen to us, so-called. account offers, avoidance of fiscalisation, etc. and when entering POS a certain amount, that amount must have a record in the account or that higher amount represents the very tip. I think that would mean a lot to our employees, especially catering when we all say we lack workers, and this is one of the reasons why they don't have that problem out there, they belong to practically the entire amount, with this being limited to about 15%, to 15% untaxable, they would avoid possible malfeasances, and would also enable an increase in personal income to all the workers in the catering sector, and thus be even more competitive about employment, labour force and enable employers in the ultimate line that absolutely when they offer jobs, they always point out that revenue from the tip, whether it is shared among all the waiters or workers in the kitchen, in the bar, it's a matter of individual agreement, but it's always discussed when you come to talk for work. I think that's the first step, of course, the further one would also be to limit at all the possibilities of cash payment and the use of cash for the purpose of preventing money laundering and to turn to precisely electronic payment, but if one Sweden that first introduced cash payment in 1600 and some years, it does now, I believe that we will come to that, too, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138991	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138992	Now let's go to the Club of Representatives of the HNS and the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138993	Thank you very much, esteemed President, colleagues and colleagues. These days we often talk about political responsibility. We at the HNS believe that political and moral responsibility is precisely a priority in the exercise of public duty. We therefore expect decisions made to be the result of common sense and political wisdom. And not because of us, because of politicians, but because of citizens who are asking and expecting us, citizens who are precisely because of the relativation of political and moral responsibility have lost faith in the political system and all that good that quality policy results from. Croatia can and must better, and for that we are all responsible. Reform processes must go faster and Croatian citizens must know what they can expect from the government. The political priorities of the HNS in the period ahead are clearly defined and this is a pay increase of 6% for all primary and secondary school employees, which would include about 68 000 enlighteners with an increase of 600 kuna on average. Furthermore, there is the abolition of the burden, further, of tax cuts and cutting red tape, such as the recent shift from kilograms to kilograms of paperwork to digital licensing in the construction sector. In the wake of all this, HNS ministers are doing a great job. Since autumn, reform has been frontal in all schools. Minister Divjak is the first minister in history to introduce education reform into classrooms. In the construction and spatial planning portfolio, reform processes and projects such as subsidisation of housing loans, POS apartments and energy renovations result in a number of 20,000 young people who will not evict from Croatia but will continue to create and remain in Croatia. HNS is doing a good job in this government. We therefore expect everyone else to raise the pace of reform at the pace of the HNS ministers and to do their part of the job. Of course, with full political and moral responsibility and not to us, but to all citizens, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138994	We move on to the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, dear colleague of the Goddess Makar, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138995	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. In recent days, we have witnessed the brutal forms of violence that fill the black chronicle, especially eroding the last one, the murder of a social worker in Djakova and the severe wounding of her colleague, an officer who only did their job, and it seems to me that the more we talk about preventing violence, the more we advocate zero tolerance to violence, the more cruel and heartless it is. What's the problem? How is it possible that violence has dragged us into all pores of society despite quality legal solutions and preventive measures? I think we've failed, we've failed as a society because violence cannot be eradicated if we don't condemn it in our core, but even if we don't sanction it completely. Trends in our society are such that bullies, offenders and individuals living on the edge of the law are not sanctioned. Cases are solved in a cryptic, delayed reaction, post-smart sense, and it's all good until there are no victims but when a murder case happens, it's only then that we become aware of how vulnerable our system is at all levels. In one part, this is due to the extreme polarisation of society, intolerance to others and different ones. Finally, this is due to the relativisation of political and moral responsibility, which is why citizens lose faith in the system and the problems of the system in their own way. In the HNS, we welcome the prime minister's decision to give social workers the status of an official, but we also welcome Minister B. Divjak's initiative that educational and educational workers get the same status. Such a proposal to change the status of educational workers is also in the action plan for the prevention of violence in schools currently in public consultation. We propose amendments to the Penal Code in Article 87(3) in a way that extends the definition of an official by adding educational workers. But first of all, all of us as a society have to do everything to prevent any form of violence from starting from ourselves because unfortunately, in this House of Commons too, we are often witnessing a dictionary that is inappropriate for one MP and we have seen other than verbal and physical violence here in the assembly. So let's get out of here. In addition to declaring that we are zero tolerance to violence in any form, let us take preventive measures, let us not wait for tragedy to occur, condemn and sanction any violence, all of us are responsible and we must all say loudly no, not hate speech, not violence, not impatience, not corruption and crime, and of course not political and moral irresponsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u138996	I thank my colleague, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u139998	Good afternoon, everyone. You can sit in your seats. Thank you. Good afternoon. Have a seat. It's all right, yeah. I have to give a notice before. The server is not working, so we won't be able to track the display time screen or the list of exhibitors, but you'll have to rely on the trust you have on me. And look at the clock for a trust check. They have applied so far for: - Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity, first reading, P.Z. No. 629; Let's first say two words about the law. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah, but just a minute, let me tell you who signed up, then so we know. So, in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Domagoj Mikulić, in front of... It worked on the server. Thank you very much, and mostly, to finish my job, in front of the GLASs Club and Ms. HSU. Anka Mrak-Taritash and in front of the HNS Club Mr Tomislav Sauch and Mr Goran Maras individually. I said Gordan. Gordan. Here you are, Mr Horvatt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Gordan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u139999	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, the honourable MPs, the honourable MPs. Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity. Namely, meteorological and hydrological activity, as a single branch of basic importance for the needs of sustainable development of society, defence of the country, education, traffic management, energy and water resources and food production. In addition to increasingly pronounced climate change and weather extremities, meteorological and hydrological services are common service to all citizens and civil institutions of society. In the Republic of Croatia, on average 70% of all damages and economic losses from disasters in the period from 80th to 2016 belong to meteorological and hydrological factors. It is therefore clear that information about weather, climate and sea and water conditions and their extremes, such as droughts, floods, storm wind, heat waves, etc. It must be an integral part of any state strategy to manage and reduce the risk of disasters. As part of the European and world network of national meteorological and hydrological services, DHMZ is responsible for monitoring the state of the atmosphere and water, as well as for analysing and forecasting their future situation. Business hydrometeorological services, status and powers of the Institute, have been regulated at this time by the Law on the conduct of hydrometeorological services in the Socialist Republic of Croatia, which has been in force since 78th. In doing so, he changed three times from being in force to today. We therefore believe that this law should be passed and that the existing system needs to be modernised and harmonised with both EU standards and gains, i.e. the rules of international relevant international organisations. The practice of applying the applicable Law on the performance of hydrometeorological services in the Socialist Republic of Croatia has shown that some of the issues that are being regulated are no longer legal and are not effectively resolved in the implementation sense, so it is necessary to make adjustments. That's why we went in passing this law. Now I'm going to say in a few words about the institutes that are the characteristic of this legal text. Therefore, this law regulates the following basic issues. This is to provide reliable and timely information for the needs of the country's fundamental interests, such as defence, protection and rescue, and ensuring the safety of land and maritime transport and for policy-level management in wider areas of administrative action, such as agriculture, forestry, transport, urbanism, construction, flood protection, energy supply, electronic communications, health, insurance of cultural heritage, other economic and non-economic activities, and for the purpose of environmental protection policies and sea and water management, for the purposes of concrete decision-making in the administrative affairs of environmental protection and water management. This information is based on the establishment of an observational state network, it's meteorological, hydrological,... the monitoring state network established by this law on land owned by the Republic of Croatia or on land of regional or local self-government, which so far has not been resolved by the existing law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some air-conditioned and umbrella stations have been established on private land and are thus not defined as a protected site and are thus not in the so-called ‘indicator’. the protection zones, so over time some of them are compromised by contact building or various inappropriate content and activities in the measuring zone that have violated the credibility of the data which this law is now correcting. This is a regulated or defined article. 8 of the proposed law. The law also defines the clear purpose of the work of operators of meteorological and hydrological activities. It is also defined as a clear allocation of the duties and scope of responsibility of the performer of the activity that is the DHMZ, which is also a solid basis for the provision of funds for the performance of these tasks. The role of the State Hydrometeorological Institute as an official warning centre for weather and atmospheric phenomena and events at sea and water with the aim of preventing confusion and confusion in the public. To clarify, therefore, Articles 13 to 18 of this Law defines what is the official data, how it is obtained, how it is methodized, how it is published and, of course, stored. The novelty of this law is the establishment of a single state system of meteorological and hydrological warnings and the issue of a unique warning of weather disasters which has not been the case in the past, as information from various unofficial sources and platforms could be found in different media systems and platforms. The absence of a single official voice is often problematic at the moment of weather and hydrological disasters. Information from different sources can be contradictory and create confusion in communication which creates problems in making key decisions, and these articles of the 13th of the 18th in this law have tried to define and correct it more clearly. The law also defines legal insurance for the operation of the state network of meteorological and hydrological stations. Article 6 defines business and financial activities of the State hydrometeorological institution of interest for the Republic of Croatia, and the purpose of revenue from activities exclusively goes to the development and improvement of its activities. Therefore, revenues are revenues from the Croatian budget, revenues from projects made by DHMZ and services to users. The biggest users, I must say here, are users of HEP, Croatian waterways, Croatian roads, so the institutions of the system. And finally, direct international communication has not been defined by the old law, Article 20 of this Law, the State Hydrometeorological Institute represents the Republic of Croatia in international organisations, which so far has not been defined by the existing law. The inspection is carried out by the State Inspectorate in accordance with Article 23, administrative supervision of the legality of work is carried out by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection and is defined by Article 22 of this Act. The implementation of this law has minimal effects on the budget of the Republic of Croatia and consultation with the interested public, with the professional public it was conducted from 13.2. to 15.3., most of the objections were adopted, those, those remarks which we did not accept were mainly remarks of a nomotechnical nature. And finally, the State Hydrometeorological Institute is currently taking care of the meteorological, hydrological and state air quality monitoring network that needs to be modernised and automated. In this respect, with the support of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the strategic project METEMONIC is the modernisation of the meteorological monitoring network in the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of the total value of 350 million kuna. The project will establish and automate 450 stations of which 6 radar stations, 5 meteorological oceanographic floaters, 2 wind measurement profiles, and set up a platform for collecting and controlling all data that should be available to the public after the completion of the project that should be completed in 2021 with real-time weather weather weather weather, at intervals of 10 minutes, which has not been the case and which we consider very important and quality progress. I must say that right now, the Republic of Croatia has only three radars, such as Chepin, Bilogor and Puntiyar, or Sljema. The Adriatic is currently not covered by meteorological radar, so we're going into this project to cover the entire Republic of Croatia with this radar infrastructure. It implements the AIRQ project, the project to expand and modernise the state air quality monitoring network of 110 million kuna, it is co-financed by EU structural projects of climate priority axes and climate change, and it will also, if it ends successfully and realises, contribute to obtaining quality infrastructure in this area that will cover the entire area of the Republic of Croatia and be at the level of a large part of EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140000	Thank you, too. You have four replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, from this presentation of the Secretary of State when we hear that funds will be invested, that the infrastructure will be meteorologically modernised and that better Croatia covered cannot be against it at first, nor can another. But when we scratch a little beneath the surface of our people, Mr. Secretary of State, since you and your ministry aren't doing a lot of work on removing the lack of what you need the most modern air quality technologies now if our people might even be in a better position not to know how much we're poisoning ourselves. Here in New Zagreb, the quality of air every day where I came from, where I lived for 30 years does not satisfy the quality of a decent man and what the ministry does What it does, how it helps these people in New Zagreb [[Time, Mr. Maras.]] That the air may be better, lest it smell, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That people don't get sick [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's what we're interested in and based on. [[Intruder: You want to respond to the Secretary of State, please.]] What are we supposed to discuss here? [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140003	I would like to thank the honourable representative Maras, I understand your concern for the quality of life of citizens in your city, but the question is whether the ministry is in charge of regulating this section and eliminating these kinds of responsibilities and dangers at all. I want to say what we are doing here, we are making great efforts to modernise the system, to bring it closer to EU standards, and then that system needs to do its job to do the measuring, to observe the quality of life and to warn, and then there are other systems that are being observed by this system to remove. Local self-government units should not be kept out of that part of responsibility because they have their own action plan to regulate exactly how to address this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140004	Mrs Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140005	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, gentlemen, Associates. So we all know how predictable and accurate the information that comes from this institution is very important. And therefore, we should all be very proud and in one way grateful that this investment will happen, given that any farmer, boatman, we as ordinary citizens know how important this predictability and what you give us as information is. Therefore, any development of this system should be greatly welcomed. And as for the measurements themselves, we know that certain things actually measure for public health rather than DHMZ, which is in this particular case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140006	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140007	Thank you. I'll just use your replica and just point out, so we have to go into the modernization of the system. I repeat, the Adriatic area is not covered by infrastructure. It's a fact and we have to do it. We have to, we have a chance to use it through the financing from the operational program system, if not, we'll have to do it ourselves soon. So the state will have to end that kind of investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140008	Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140009	Thank you, Vice President. They say that citizens of the Republic of Croatia, almost a million people are daily informed about meteorology and use WMO tools, Aladdin and similar, changes and additions to this law are as much as indicated for providing reliable and timely information in the interest of the state, I certainly welcome it. But I didn't see that hydrometeorology was specifically indicated for agriculture. So agrimeterological cells, as in EU countries, all those who are seriously engaged in agricultural and agricultural land have these agrometeorological cells, so I didn't see that specifically indicated on one side. On the other hand, we welcome this about Croatia by the Adriatic Sea, so from Istria to Prevlaka. Finally, this law will deal with it, and that whole section will be covered, so I welcome further the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140010	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140011	Thank you. So temperature measurement, soil, humidity and everything related to agrometerological data, parameters, etc. is integrated into this system, integrated into the operation or operation of these 450 stations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140012	And finally, Mr. Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140013	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, there is no need to debate at all because this activity is very important. I'd just like to refer to this part that you mentioned informing and avoiding confusion, it was in this presentation of yours. So I wanted to say that because of the retention of responsibility and of course the seriousness in the publication of these meteorological data should also be found in how to free us from vacuuming, catastrophicity, estradisation, it has already passed over to me every time such data is published because it damages both citizens and the economy and damages all spheres of life. So I just looked to remind you of article 13 where this publication is mentioned, I apologize,...the last sentence, [[Time, Mr. Ronko.]] You really don't need to protect more officers there. [[Intruder Radin: Yes.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140014	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140015	Thank you. Dear Representative Ronko, just as I said to Articles 13 to 18, we have defined a new category that is very important and that is official data. So we know what official relevant information is. Anyone can call over the phone and say e here now it's raining, threatening fights, etc., it's not official relevant information. The data is the one that will be processed in the system and behind which someone will stand. And we defined that precisely from Article 13 to Article 18. It means the creation, use and consumption and storage of official data.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140016	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Domagoj Mikulić in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140017	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with fellow Members, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. The proposed law today lays down the tasks of meteorological and hydrological activities that are of great interest to the entire Republic of Croatia, with which we define jurisdiction, responsibility, scope and content of the activities within these activities as well as the conditions for their implementation. Since then, the practice in applying more current law dating back to 1978 has shown that there is a need to adapt to modern legislative institutes. I consider it necessary to modernise this activity precisely because of the importance of this unique branch for the needs of both civil society and education and defence of the country and traffic management, energy, agriculture and everything else. Its need in all of these segments is given special importance in view of climate change and the numerous time extremes that we are all witnessing together today and which have a major impact on the social and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The rapid identification of current and future meteorological changes greatly helps to prevent and prevent or at least mitigate the consequences of these changes. Prevention and early recognition of change is particularly important when we consider that in the last 30 years in the Republic of Croatia, 70% of all damages and economic losses from disasters such as droughts, floods, storm winds, heat waves belong to just the factors in the sphere of meteorology and hydrology. Only this data clearly shows that information on climate and weather, sea condition and water must be an integral part of every state strategy to manage and reduce the risk of disasters. It is this bill that regulates the areas of legal protection of the work of the state network of meteorological and hydrological stations that I believe will result in the provision of information to those reliable and timely for the purposes of both our agriculture and transport and the construction of energy supply and all those economic activities. Everything that represents the fundamental interests of our citizens and our country, but not only of our countries and our citizens, but of the entire international community through standardised monitoring and recording of data and changes at global level. The adoption of this bill will modernise the legal framework in this area, ensure the continuity of the monitoring system of the atmosphere and the hydrosphere of which I have spoken before, ensure the establishment of a single system of warning of disasters, regulate the implementation of international obligations from these activities, regulate the competence of the state hydrometeorological institution as the executioner of this activity and the way of financing the same, as well as strengthening the role of meteorology and hydrology in adapting climate change and challenges that we have today in this area. Through monitoring and systematic collection of data from atmospheric and hydrological phenomena within the unique information system included in international information systems, we provide vital information for the protection of life, nature and material goods. Just including in the unique observation systems of change ensures us the long-term and quality development of this profession in line with the scientific and technological achievements at global levels, which, with the clearly defined organisation and way of performing meteorological and hydrological activities, is certainly a guarantee of meeting the objectives I mentioned earlier. This is precisely why the HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Weather and Hydrological Activity Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140018	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Dark Taritash, who will speak in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140019	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us in the first reading of the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity. We at the GLAS Club and HSU will uphold this law. So, the basic law, that is, to say the one that this is referring to in 78 C.E. and this is, in fact, kind of, under certain conditions and with certain adaptation analyses to modern legislative institutions, agreeing on a new law to make it easier to work and in this sense, this law is technical law and it is properly and well done and as such should be said and it should be commended. The new law opens up a series of topics and a series of dilemmas, one of the things we need to talk about from this pay phone, and we need to talk more often about climate change. Climate change is a fact, about climate change, you know that one respected statesman, Mr. Trump, says there is no climate change, and then nature is at the same time denying it is the same time that it's destroying part of the country, which is much simpler to resuscitate than we are in the Republic of Croatia, but climate change is a fact. Climate change will adapt to the plant world, adapt the animal world, people adapt, it seems to me to be kind of the hardest and, with the most resistance, no matter how much resistance we provide, these are the things that will change. What we must be prepared to do is that climate change will lead to a new wave of migration because if you live in Africa or in parts of the world where you need two days of drinking water, you will leave that part and adapt to both the plant and animal world, but we must be prepared to do so. I have spoken on several occasions, and I am very happy to talk about the subject. This century is a century in which man must take care of climate change, the consequences of these climate change that he has to take care of are floods that will be even more. And also another topic, the topic of waste that you also have to deal with the problem of waste in a certain way. In this law and when it comes to climate change, I read three things, and three things should be warned. The first thing is good data and recording the existing state. The other thing is an analysis of all of this and the third thing is actually a forecast of what to actually do. So all the investments we invest in technology, all the investments we invest in modernising it all together are welcome and we need to do so. In other times, so, today you have, we all have these smart phones, so just like it rang for me, it's ringing because we forget to shut up, we're doing everything on them, I'm making a joke and I'm not just saying I'm not just calling, I'm reading messages, I'm texting, I'm reading emails, I'm still not cooking on this smart phone. It's just like that we all rely on Aladdin and we're talking about how it's all networked now, but my people, let's go a little bit, I'm using this opportunity to go back a little bit in history, I was sailing and at some point when Aladdin was a thought directory you couldn't get to. We had back then, and now we have great weather forecasts. He was still the one who was still doing the first program that the first one had already given you at 6 a.m. and he gave you 12 plus 12 hours, it was called that marine forecast for sailors whatever you want to call them. She was predictable to you if you listened to her everything was said, the problem wasn't that it was a bad forecast, the problem was that the boaters didn't listen, and then they got hurt because they didn't listen. So, when you've been announced by certain winds, you've been able to take care of all of this in a minute, all of this will improve your way of living. We have a good tradition, we have good services, let's give them tools to be even better, but what a man really has to listen to first. It's a characteristic of all of us not actually listening, and now that we have these phones we see a little bit there, we compare something. The forecasts are good forecasts and we really do, and there we should commend the whole service that works to make it better, always have to be better. On one occasion I listened to this one in the morning before the job forecast and it was very convenient because the one who spoke the forecast for that day said at 11 o'clock will rain, it is about Zagreb. And I come to work it was the sun and all I'm saying is that we know at 11 o'clock it's gonna rain, says where you get it, I say I've been listening to the weather, so here you go. At 11 o'clock, it started to rain, I mean, it's like a joke and an anecdote, but they're not all the same. What's extremely important in every business, and that's also in this business, understanding the cause, and then you can define the consequences. It's a key thing to understand why something is happening, why some processes happen because then you can also predict the consequences. There's one activity where there's a lot of resistance to this fact, I'm not going to talk about another, I'm always talking about what's closest to me, and that's not even a problem with the activity of building, the problem is the activity of spatial planning. When I was studying, there long ago there was spatial planning, then one of the maps that was in the spatial plans was called a risk map. There they were, basically she was referring to earthquake zones for whatever reason. Now I'm going to use two minutes and I'm not going to bother too much with it, so I'm an architect, and then when you look at a house and you always like an architect with such airy, light, light columns, light structures because then you have a breakthrough of nature in the house, a connection of the house with nature, and then we're told by teachers at the university that it might be for you for some other spaces because there are other earthquake zones. The whole of Croatia are very high earthquake zones so 7, 8, 9 so these are the strongest and you can't design there. Those first risk cards we had were about these earthquake zones to let you know that there are high earthquake zones that some things you can't predict are done. The following risk cards that I had the opportunity to see were tied to the thorny areas so next to the rinks. You had a chance to see not so long ago when in breath a hill slipped away, a map of the slide. The following cards that will be needed will be designated flood areas for which reason, simply so that construction is no longer planned there. In other words, as a man resists that these climate change are facts and what this century is about to show, one of the professions that has to change very spottically and introduce new cards when it comes to spatial planning are these maps that will refer to these climate change, because you can't go all the way and it's better that in certain areas you don't plan to build and that it's not a building area but that it's a problem for you. To conclude, I could go further now but I'm going to go to some things that won't have much to do with this law but this law has it and we need to understand it, relationships with everyone. It also has to do with agriculture, it has to do with forestry, it has to do with energy, it also has to do with transport for the simple reason what is basic and what should be taken into account, which is that we get the best possible state and that we get and that the whole profession is actually improving to understand these causes because then we will be able to respond to the consequences as I said at the GLAS and HSU Club, we will support the law. It is a technical law that technically regulates certain situations, but climate change is certainly a subject that has earned a good debate and a good place in this assembly because at one point, we will have some problems that we will not know how to deal with properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140020	We have Mr. Vlaovic who asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140021	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament for asking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats in order to consult on further participation, and then at the end of the vote regarding the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity. There are more reasons for this, but here are the major climate changes already mentioned and several scientific meetings have been held on this topic and the country is, EU members from our environment have already been organised through bodies that will monitor climate change and give guidance to both agricultural producers and the overall economy, as well as other state bodies themselves. Why did Croatia not go to the establishment of an agency or a council to monitor climate change and to warn our agricultural producers of frequent climate change and what follows that some cultures will come into question. So we have an example this spring that the wheat in Baranja and Eastern Slavonia are transformed for lack of moisture. Why we keep quiet about it, it's our reality or we're going to import wheat from Bosnia like we imported 53,000 tons of shame. I think we must produce food in Croatia in Slavonia and to create conditions for that. That is why I call on Minister Tolusic to deal more actively with irrigation, irrigation issues. He said whoever has the building permit we will finance everything, and apparently there is not enough capacity in local units of regional self-government to organise it themselves. Why not include the Ministry of Agriculture and Croatian Water more actively? And the second reason is here, the 15th is the defense against the fight. DHMZ implements this as a state body. The abolition of the Law on Defence against Fight has been announced. We at HSS are against it until proven scientifically that the defense against the fight is not effective, and that is the scientific public divided about it. We're asking to buy rockets and reagents, which DHMZ didn't do even though he collected money from both the ministry and the county. Who, where's your money?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140022	Thank you. Anyone else looking for a break? No, I don't. I approve a break from 10 minutes to 10 hours and 18 minutes. [[It's 10.08 o'clock.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] Now it's Mr. Tomislav Sauch's turn in front of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140024	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. So today we have a debate on the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity. About an hour ago on one of the leading ones. The read portals were big news. So, I'll read it to you. He says there's a sudden warming coming today, and then there's a big change, possibly snow. So that's news that was an hour ago, which was breaking news, which just shows how important we are to time forecasting and how important it is for all of us to know what time awaits us today, tomorrow, for the weekend, next week. We often find ourselves in a situation where in the morning, before we go to work, we ask if we're going to need an umbrella that day, if it's going to rain, if it won't be, what kind of time for the weekend, now it's coming to us on May 1st, probably some who are on the campaign, think about whether that day will have to rent a tent or be able to arrange for the sharing of beans and flyers in the open air. So there are data that are interested in a broad spectrum of citizens, but not just private citizens, so who are also often asked and watched and searched pages, DHMZ web sites, and we're looking for information to see what they're going to be like, let's say time for when we're going to have an annual vacation. But, as I said, it's not just private citizens who depend on the data on the time ahead, but it's also our entrepreneurs, i.e. farmers, meaning economic branches, e.g. Of course you won't be doing some open-air work if for the week ahead you predict bad weather, rain. So that's what we're talking about, agriculture, construction, all those jobs that are somehow conditioned by hydrometeorological i.e. meteorological conditions. So, in the economy, also another branch of the economy that is extremely important, which depends on good forecasts, is also one of our most important economic branches, and that is tourism, where, then, how long-term forecasts will be known to us and staticly set up tourist employees as a whole. So when we talk about data that are important, we're talking about that they're important for the security of the Republic of Croatia because of the long-term forecasts, for example. flood threats or droughts, which may then result in fires. It also depends on the state of alertness of the service and how it will be known to deal with natural disasters such as, say, flood or drought, or, as my colleague here said before me, when he asked for a break, the defense against the fight. So these are all extremely important data for extremely important activities, and this is, in fact, DHMZ as both a service and as an activity is positioned as one of the strategic important activities for the Republic of Croatia. It is also important for, for, it is necessary for the sustainable development of society, defence, country, education, process management, policies, etc. DHMZ is an institution of long and rich history, past. It counts over 70 years as a roof organization, and so far it's acted according to the law that was, in fact, obsolete, this law that we're about to pass today, i.e. The debate we are discussing today should create for them a new, modern legislative framework so that the service that is for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all its owners is greatly beneficial. Otherwise, DHMZ can also say that the institution has a very high public reputation and great authority in the scientific public. In today's day, she mentioned a colleague who spoke and spoke before me, a colleague of Mrak-Taritash, mentioned smart phones. We all have a few apps that make weather and troubles and we keep looking and studying what time it will be, but somehow I feel that regardless of what data we have from foreign services is somehow still the most trusted DMHZ and when they say that it will be, let's say, stable time, it is then taken as relevant data. Here, let's say, for example. One of my friends is going to have a barbecue this weekend, and I called him and I said listen, so I think there's a portal, there's an app, they call it rain. He said don't worry about anything, I checked on DHMZ, said that day would be the time of the eye. So here, it just shows how great a reputation they have, not only DHMZ as an institution but also their forecasts that are taken as accurate because it's the same from the characteristics of their activities, that their forecasts, data, their models are accurate, fast, justifiable and that things are meeting their purpose, and that's to tell us what kind of weather or big-security troubles they're going to be. So we at the HNS Club will vote for this law. We believe that this law is good, and DHMZ, which is our neighbor as an institution, is a building, a beautiful old building, an old building on Grič which is now, as they have told me, is in the process of moving an adequate room and they want a lot of happiness in further work and joy, here we are, that we will be able to adopt this law and hope that it will provide us with a nice time for both warm and stable weather and a stable time for this tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140025	Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn to speak for the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the proposal of the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity and the improvement of that service in the Republic of Croatia, no one can have against it, and of course we need to provide as much as possible infrastructure, reliable and timely information as possible, and the way in which we will provide this information with both our citizens and those services that are vitally interested in this information to remove certain damages, as the Secretary of State said in his opening contract, even 70% of all damages and economic losses to disasters in the past 36, 37 years, belong to meteorological and hydrological factors. Now, the logical question is, if we do everything, if we invest in infrastructure, in technology, in the education of people, if that information is available, why do we often have damages that we might have avoided? And on this side, people wonder, for example, in the carlovia county every year, floods do some damage, they don't clean up the drain, they need water ic, there's no quality prevention, people pay the drain fee, or water leaks to sort of keep it all together, why isn't it done? So we have good information, we have quality equipment, we're going to have even better equipment, obviously after what we're applying this project and over 350 million kunas as the secretary of state has said, which is why we often happen year after year that we have disasters or that our citizens don't feel safe in the Republic of Croatia, especially in some parts that are often exposed to meteorological problems. And on that side, it's clear that it's not enough to invest in technology, it's not enough even to have timely information once in a while unless we're preparing to avoid certain disasters. When we add to that what my predecessors said, and it's that unfortunately, our planet doesn't take care of ecologically, that we have big countries that don't even think about future generations at all, but think only in the short term about their industry or the short term interest, that we have global warming, so we see that every day, temperatures change by 10, 15 degrees, that it's possible after this kind of warming that's at the level of summer, where temperatures are close to 30 degrees, that tomorrow there may be snow in some parts of the Republic, I don't know who needs more warning and greater action to finally wake up and realize that this country where we all live is not just for us and for the generation that we're going to live with, but should be a country that should be one quality way to allow people to live for thousands and thousands of years. And on the other hand, what's my basic, basic concern here is what I want to say in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, not technology, not meteorological apparatus, not hydrological appliances, but what our country will look like in 10, 50 or 100 years. and we do not need to take lightly the warnings that global warming will result in an increase in sea levels, that some of our cities, perhaps islands, may disappear during that period if something dramatic in the behaviour of those most polluting the environment and who have the greatest power to change something so that something doesn't change and on this side the EU has one agenda to be strongly supported, but also the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU should play a more active role in those countries which, unfortunately, deviate from some signed agreements as the United States has done with the Paris Agreement. So, on that side, that's what I'm like as a citizen of the country, not now the Republic of Croatia or the EU, but the countries are worried because I see that we're still being irresponsible to our planet. And it's amazing that in some situations even our children, young people see it much better than those who make decisions and we witnessed a few weeks ago here a global protest of young people to protect the environment and our planet on which they should, I say, live not just generations after us, but many, many, many generations. On this side, we will give support to this law, but we insist that the Croatian Government be more active, that our prime minister, Minister of Environment and Nature, energy, be more active and visible on this issue at EU policy level because it does not matter whether a member country is smaller or larger, if you are proactive if you have ideas, if you are probative, it is possible from a relatively less or possibly less powerful position to achieve a great effect, because if a young girl's voice is heard throughout the world, I am convinced that the voice of our prime minister and our minister who deals with this area can be heard. Unfortunately, I don't hear that voice at all, he's dealing with who knows what and what topics that are not at all of interest primarily for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and even less for the citizens of the EU. I see that all the trouble is going around the HDZ organization and explaining and propagating a candidate that no one has heard of until yesterday. So on the other hand, on the other hand, what he wants to tell you here, go ahead with education, introduce new technologies, introduce things that will give Croatia reliable information and timely information that will allow us to have quality information for policy-level management purposes, but then these policies should also bring, then these policies should make visible, available, make a broad consensus in society. Which is why the government of the Republic of Croatia couldn't make one protest like high school students did to see how many people would come out to support our planet and what's happening on our planet and somehow send that strong message. Unfortunately, these policies are not visible, but I have a feeling that they are not even there at all, unfortunately, all of what we are going to adopt today is not all that the Croatian government is going to do in terms of infrastructure, in terms of the distribution of duties, tasks and areas of responsibility for the work and performers of these meteorology and hydrology activities, which is not going to give us the solution that we want, which is to stop the destructive behaviour, the devastating behaviour towards our planet, and that I am not, of course, speaking to Croatia that will be very exposed in the coming decades. Unfortunately, the Croatian government does not care, and this is seen by a floating LNG terminal, which is pushed in one way I would say inappropriately, financial interests are obviously much more important to the HDZ government than citizens of the Primorje-Gorskina County or the island of Krk, and thus trying to make one attack also in nature, but here, unfortunately, there is little to talk about too, which is why it is always at the end of the priority. What makes those topics that are vital to our country come at the end of the priority rather than to our first place? Which is why there is always something in first place that is important only to interesting, business lobbys, not to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. On this side, I would like to say once again that we will support this law, we are not against any progress or progress related to this area, we want to have quality and infrastructure and information, but unless we are preparing ourselves for future periods, unless we have quality politicians and those who carry messages of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, none of this will benefit us, and unfortunately I have a feeling that Croatia will be one of the worst countries in terms of global environmental change or global warming of CO2 emissions. Since we have a long coast, since we have a lot of islands, since we can be strong, touch that subject, maybe we sitting here won't see it with our own eyes, but that doesn't have to worry us less about it. They come behind us next generation, young people come, our children come and their children and Croatia should be one of the leaders in the EU to fight global warming and show a little more guidance in this regard. To be the only one who follows in this situation is never good, and to be able to do a little bit of work, look at what the children have managed to do all over the world. So everyone's moved because they're aware of a lot more than some of the leaders of the problem that's coming to us, and they're aware that for their future they're only unfortunately, since I said I'm the unreasonableness of some of the world's leaders must be able to fight for themselves. And I invite you to help them and invite you to take this problem more seriously than we do in this assembly and in Croatia and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140027	Now it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140028	Dear Vice President, state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately the hydrometeorological service in the Republic of Croatia is not fully understood by all authorities, and I believe that too little money is being invested in this institution, that too little money is being invested in scientific research and scientists, given that the hydrometeorological institution has far more significance for the economy than we see today from these benches, because when you sit here in HS, then it is very little important to you what the weather is, but I, as a agricultural producer, have been following the forecast for days because I have been waiting for the plant and it is very important that what forecasts will be issued by the hydrometeorological office. I therefore appeal to the Government to grant more funding for this scientific discipline, I could say freely, hydrometeorology, as it depends on the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia in a particular section. We're a tourist country, we're a country that has great potential for agricultural production, that we don't use it, that's our shame, but in the future... I believe that the economy will depend heavily on the quality and accuracy of both the short and long-term forecasts of the hydrometeorological institution. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are also aware of the drought, we are aware of these climate changes that are now evident and no one can disprove them, we are aware that they bring very rapid changes that can leave very great negative consequences on the economy if we are not ready for them at least as much as, and in order to be prepared, we should have a very high-quality hydrometeorological institution that will see that as far as possible in advance. I am sorry that the anti-urban protection has been rejected under the pretext of some global warming, under the excuse that it is better to use insurance and thus protect against fighting and such accidents. As a agricultural producer, I can tell you that it may be only partially true, but when you have one production, when you have a buyer, when you have contracts, the moment the fight takes away your production, you lose the customer, you lose the ability to respect contracts and that's a long-term damage for every producer because today's the hardest time to pay back. I've had a practice on my property for years to secure my production because in agriculture it's, I could say a very stupid entry into production, invest big funds, and then not secure it. However, I would also be more pleased to secure my crops, but also to ensure that anti-urban protection works as it once worked and that the possibility of damage from the beatings that occured is reduced because still by the operation of the rocket generators, the service has greatly reduced the damages that occurred. If she did not prevent a full fight, she was weaned, and there were many winemakers who were more content with it. Vineyards, today they remain without all their crops, and you know what once a winemaker and winemaker means when they also lose their customers and clients for which they produce and when they run out of annual production. No matter how hard everyone tries and convinces us that we don't need anti-urban protection, I'll never believe it, no matter what allegedly some of the countries around us have stopped doing this, I think we should have left this kind of protection behind, promoted it, and regardless of this argument of global warming and contributing to it, I think that many countries around us contribute far more to global warming than we have because we simply destroyed our industry. By destroying a network of rocketers that are mostly in rural areas, we will also leave many people without any revenue that mattered to them, another thing that does not contribute to demographic restoration and the rest of living in the country with its families. In addition to the weather conditions that come to us in the form of various rainfalls that either do damage or benefit, drought is already evident this year, farmers are already aware that this winter has not been snowed, that there has been no accumulation of water supplies in the ground, in deeper layers for summer, that wells have quite low levels and unless there will be rainfall this summer, that we will feel very strongly on our productions what will happen this summer about the drought. I know it's hard to predict in these dynamic and turbulent times such a long forecast, but I think the data that are back collected points to some trends in the Republic of Croatia that the amount of rainfall of those usable ones is reduced because when you have 100 liters in one day, 100 liters is not absorbed into the ground, most of it goes into the canals and becomes unusable for agricultural production, so that the schedule of these rainfalls as they come in the short term, in large quantities, is not favourable either for the economy or for agriculture. Air quality in certain cities of the Republic of Croatia is very bad, Slavonski Brod, Sisak, Zagreb, and Kutina. We have a network of measurement stations in the Republic of Croatia that show some of the numerical values of certain substances that pollute the air. However, our citizens of these numerical values cannot conclude whether that air is polluted above normal values or within the limits of permitted values. I don't know why no one wanted to put on such measurement becomes a graphic display with some kind of line that says here above it's too polluted whether maybe people wouldn't see that data that doesn't want to be seen because it's always talking about average values, and you know what the average is, one eats rice, another meat, on average, is sarm, and so are the average values in air pollution. I believe that we must inform our citizens in the right way, show them the right values, warn them at a certain time of day, week or year when that air is polluted so that they too can behave against it or close themselves in a closed space or use some means of protection or decide for themselves whether to work and walk in such polluted air or not. This way, at these measurement stations, they don't see it very well. Here, the club of the HSS and the Democrats will support this law of yours and we believe that the hydrometeorological institute is a very valuable institution in the Republic of Croatia, I hope that the government will understand this more than it understands and that more money will be invested in these precisely our scientists who, thank God, we still have who have not left this country and that they will invest in new technology and technology to make these forecasts as high-quality as possible, as long as possible and so that the businessmen can be treated as best as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140029	We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This topic is one of the most important topics for our country and for our citizens, and this is what my colleagues in HSS gave me, and I have to remove them because they have a worse party feature, and you know that our president HS is not very fond of these things. I'd like to make one thing clear to you, so, as you can see, the sticker is no longer the same, I hope that's okay, I see you're not warning me, so people know that this way you can communicate politically with HS and send certain messages But when we use this theme [[Intruder: A to stick to Mr. Maras' theme]] When we talk about our environment, meteorology and hydrology, it is very important to note, and it is very important to note, and I have said this in the opening line to the secretary of state that our people must not only have quality information and infrastructure, but must be equal with other European countries, they must have a quality prevention of certain disasters that do not exist in the Republic of Croatia. [[/Intruder: That's how.]] Sometimes people are better off and they don't know some things because our government doesn't do anything in Slavonski Brod to improve air quality, it doesn't do anything in Zagreb, in New Zagreb, here it is, a few kilometers of air lines from this place where we are, hundreds of thousands of people are exposed to low air quality, the smell that's spreading from the waste dump to Jakushevec and to no one, nothing at all, we can record whatever we want, but until we move and do what we should, and it should be that our citizens are as equal as in other EU countries and they have the protection of their government in the way we should have it. Our government, unfortunately, is obviously protecting private interest, business interest, for example Slavonski Brod, there is the interest of Russian companies, far more important to them than what is the interest of citizens of hundreds of thousands of directly endangered citizens in Slavonski Brod. I have also proposed to the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to you colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ to adopt a law that we can regulate whether we will bring gas into the facility in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nothing, you haven't even blinked at all, you've deafened, at this point we might influence to protect our citizens and we can measure as far as air and water and weather are concerned, we can invest hundreds of millions of kunas in these resources, but in the end we won't have what we want, and that's to make our citizens feel safe, to allow them to have quality conditions, to have quality air, to have safety when they have more rainfalls. So every year we have situations where because of the rainfall in the same parts of the Republic of Croatia because Croatian waters do not do their job or private cooperatives chosen by Croatian waters do not do their job, they do not clean drains and citizens have floods that they may not have. So that's the problem to talk about here and to which it should be warned and to which the government and the resolution ministry should react more promptly, without it there will be no use of this equipment, nor of this law that we will most likely all of us in this assembly, in this HS support. That the situation is dramatic, it's dramatic that the problem with the water, with the air, is great. So just look at my colleagues and colleagues in Dalmatia, in Split, so they're still using Diocletian water, every time it rains a little bit, people get clouded by water, and they don't have the most basic resources that the state should provide them with, and we're talking about being a tourist country. So it's a great honor for those who think about having better information, but we already have good enough information, quality information that should work on them. Unfortunately, we don't act at all. Neither in Split nor in Slavonski Brod, I look at these representatives from these parts of Croatia, and I find it amazing that they do not object. Here, I am from Zagreb, I object that our people in Split do not have quality water, that they do not have quality air in Slavonski Brod, that they have terrible discomfort in practically 10 km from here to Jakushevec in the City of Zagreb, but nothing changes. And on that side, Mr. Secretary of State, set up the most modern equipment for you. All over Croatia. Have all the information, but you also bring policies, you make solutions, because in your own mind to make infrastructure means nothing. If we do not make quality decisions, solutions and do what is in the interest of our citizens, none of these will ultimately benefit. There will be no citizens, neither will you have in the end, because citizens will rightly, as they are already doing, warn HDZ of the failures that occur both in Slavonski Brod and in Split and in the City of Zagreb where the strongest coalition partner is essentially the mayor of Bandic without which the government would not be. And it would be good if, already, here we gave the post, we arrested Mr. Mikulic as Chief Inspector of State for the inspection to do his job a little better. That he does not spend a whole day in a campaign with his candidates instead of doing his job, that the inspection goes away, that the inspection goes to New Zagreb and that he sees what is happening there specifically in the field, given the high air quality, given the great smell that people feel there and that every day with the anxiety and anxiety of the citizens of New Zagreb are looking at the websites of what air quality that day will be. These are the things we have to solve, unfortunately we don't solve them. Some who can do this, don't solve them, those who want to solve it don't listen to them, and it's amazing how little the government pays attention to the problems of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of our citizens. When we see some things that are not solved, which are de facto under our nose, then we should not be surprised that we are not at all active on the international plan or international policies related to global warming, the increase in sea levels and everything that threatens us in the future as a country that is very exposed to its coast, and nobody seems to care about it. And finally, here, I'd like to give my support to this law. I wish we had a little more consensus on these things, then perhaps we could solve the problem before Slavonski Brod, then perhaps solve the problem of the City of Zagreb, the New Zagreb, the dump site in Jakushevec, perhaps solve the problem and clouded water and the lack of the most basic conditions for life that has the second largest city in Croatia, Split, perhaps then HDZ could do something in particular. So here, we're even offering some kind of desire to do something sooner, to do something, but we don't see any shift, or we don't know why there's no activity in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140031	Here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140032	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would ask a 15-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Club, given that we are talking about a law that is quite important to us, has raised more interest than it was when we started in it, and there are certain doubts after the speech, the opening speech of the secretary of state, in terms of the part in which he spoke about the obligation to use data by public companies, by those who are most important to Croatian citizens because they are most used. Just like that, I'm looking for 15 minutes so we can coordinate it at the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140033	Thank you very much. By 11 and 15 breaks, actually for consultation. It's 11 o'clock. We're moving on with individual debates. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:17 AM]] It's Mrs Grozdana Peric's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140035	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, so here's a law that, as already said in the section, we can say technical laws that are very important to the entire country and to every segment of our society. It is necessary to say that the State Hydrometeorological Institute has a 70-year tradition and with this we can be extremely proud of everything that it has done all these years and as here I can tell about its local part we also have one of our meteorologists, Duška Kralje, who means a lot to us when it comes in the morning and when it tells us what time will be in Zadar. It is also very important to mention that these and such people are promoted and technical sciences are also involved in the development of meteorology, so some schools in Zadar and Zadar County have their own meteorological stations. It is the Zadar Islands school, as well as the Škabrnja primary school. It's very important because it actually promotes everything children need to learn, and we see how much meteorology and hydrometeorology, oceanography and phenological, phenological becomes as important to everything that's happening in our area. Here in materials it is said how much over 70% of all the damages that have occurred in the Republic of Croatia and the loss of disaster since the 1980s, '980s. So here they actually belong to meteorological and hydrometeorological factors, it's an extremely large number, and we actually need to pay a lot of attention to this activity right here. It is very important to mention the same, and mentioned Mr. Secretary of State in the introduction that the Adriatic area is actually very, very, very uncovered so far. There are actually two maritime meteorological centres there, which are Rijeka and Split, which obviously cannot meet all needs, so often we who are down there and who we have always warned every visitor who would come to respect actually meteorological instructions, to listen to the radio, to be and to respect the sea because in this way we can prevent many, many accidents that are actually happening precisely because of disrespecting exactly what all these institutions are giving us. All knowledge and all that this way collects this institution and this science actually gives strategic guidance on how to manage and how to develop in the future. Those who are well-intentioned then can see on the Institute's pages how many projects have been made so far and what projects are under way, and among other things I would mention that here is one of the projects when it comes to agriculture is this assessment of the adaptability of Croatian varieties of corn and soy in the processing function for the tolerance of drought. So we see that there is something in progress that is very important for the development of our agriculture. Then, the vitality of ordinary beech in changed climate conditions, so you deal with a lot of projects and it is important that all those who need these data that can actually get very quality information, then be informed and see what it really looks like and what it does. We also see that you are in EU funds projects, so that is, for example, The information platform for resistance to Adriatic cities and cities, etc., so Adia Sea, here are all the elements and actually projects that can give us and how to give us a lot of quality in the future, and all of what you collect and give projections and analyses actually gives us just as certain parameters and guidelines as well as how to create both agricultural and all other policies and development. So, in any case, Articles 3 where certain concepts are defined, and all the more, Article 4 continues to allow you to enter the system very high quality and primarily, the international system where you will be recognised as a quality institution, which we as a state will also contribute to the development of this science, and also be involved in all these changes and monitors, and also affect the quality of life and thus be actually active participants of this society. Leaving therefore, for all those to assess what was done for the future, and also having quality data that will be able to project some future events, so here, as your colleague, Mr. Sierkovic did at that time with much less technical and technological capacities, therefore, we can be more confident in this way that by including all these international institutions and improving the quality and method of work that we will be high-quality participants in this European space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140036	First of all, it means replica, Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140037	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Peric, you mentioned in your presentation a kind of tourism that is extremely important, which is nautical tourism. Nautical tourism, especially from the city where you come from, you yourself know what it looks like in the summer months where, on Saturdays when you take the sailboats is all too much. I must admit that especially Kornati, when you go out there looks like a highway so there goes a sailboat for a sailboat, and everyone learns how to fly ships or have a team, but it remains this part, listens to weather forecasts, the importance of weather forecasts means that the Adriatic is covered in quality, but also the importance of man. So here we always forget that role of man and I'm glad you mentioned the gentleman who is significant to your end because there is a single saying, praise the sea, hold on to the end. But now in the context of climate change and everything else and the changes that are at sea are extremely fast happening And that's why it's [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and the importance of monitoring [[Thank you very much.]] and then the importance of pointing out the consequences. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140038	Thank you very much. Answer, ma'am. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140039	Thank you very much. Yes, that's why I mentioned that a lot of people are sailing, but there are few who really follow and respect the sea. So, they're following weather forecasts, and here, Mr. King is one of those people who, in a very nice and lovable way, actually gives in importance everything that every one of us needs to watch out for, especially at sea where it is, where it really has to be looked out for it, what kind of wind is going to be, what time it's going to be so that it doesn't come to the terrible hags that can happen at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140040	Thank you very much. I welcome students and students and employees of primary schools attending Croatian teaching in Montenegro, and also at the gallery I see a family from Pula, also, I welcome you all together. ... It's nice to have you with us. [[Applause.]] Let's move on, Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140041	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's something I want to say about this law because I think it's quite important in terms of our lives and that it's practically like a framework that's being set today after 40 years, and I think it's one of the reasons, that it's nothing, that it's 40 years old, that it's already in force one different from some other time would be good to change it, just because of us and for the sake of the time that we live in. These 40 years have changed, and indeed this law as a framework that needs to be regulated by a central state office, such as a hydrometeorological institution, was simply needed in order to achieve what you are, which we could hear in the opening speech of the secretary of state, means, above all, that it can be modernised in its work i.e. To use the resources at your disposal, and the amount is not small or insignificant, 300 million kuna is a large amount, it just needs to make us new at all. And they look at the life that we live daily from the youngest to the oldest, especially the passengers and all those who depend on what someone will suggest to us where and how we travel, to go and what awaits us in a certain space, today it has become something that is in some way and lifestyle. Simply, I'll say for my example, I come from the island and the first thing we have to look at before we go anywhere is the sailing order and the weather opportunity to be at all aware or certain that we will get where we want to go that day. While I'm on my island, I'm going to say that we have one major hydrometeorological station that has its own employee, and that system is likely to develop. We've recently had the first beginnings and I thank you for putting another hydrometerological station on the second part of the island, which is from the means we're talking about, however, we've come to a problem. And that problem might have had to be solved by law a little simpler, where to make such a station, we showed 10 positions, none of them fit. It's just one that's privately owned. And private property leads to roads and complicates all of us a small space simply complicates all of our activities. So we want to become, we want to know, we want to know exactly what's happening to us over the year, we're a tourist destination, every piece of information is important to us, and it's just important to us that we get there. If we're going to get, in a way that's a little hard, so the community of their respective space doesn't have any, but the state doesn't answer either, is just a match for some who are privately owned. Can we ask these services to be even more detailed, to spend more time on the ground, not to be one, two, or three hours a day getting that day, but to really make an effort, no, we're always ready to help, but let those services really take time, because these are big spaces and there's certainly something that can be found, and that fits the conditions that need to be made. As for the provisions that may have caused a dispute in the debate is who can publish certain data, we heard here today the portals are already announcing a bad time we see some people who came from some weather forecasts that we know as such, and they are the bearers of practically all the information that people absorb. And it really happens sometimes, and yet I come to my story from my island, that we have a calm sea in two ports where the ferry sails, and that the storm blows in Senj and that we have closed roads. There are problems that should be solved in my opinion and through this law that I do not know in any way commit a public enterprise to updating the data and not updating it in 3 days or 7 hours, but current updates because we happen to close the roads over the weekend for the first group of vehicles, for example, are mostly tourists, campers, all those who have bigger vehicles, and that time is perfectly normal and that there are no traffic problems. And we all become slaves to some bad information. It is also the same in maritime transport, catamarans do not drive, we read what the Croatian hydrometeorological institution says, we read what the HAK says, and it is not consistent, it has nothing to do with each other. And then it all depends on the assessment of a captain and current opportunity, and it happens to us in the year 20th and 30th times so that our catamarans don't sail, and these are the most important practical lines of links especially for young people and older people who travel to the center of the county, and they may not be able to sail. So it must come from you, but also from all others who are in this and from the Croatian Autoclub and all others who participate in the whole process, the flow of information faster, safer and that it simply corresponds to their current state in certain areas. Of course we can't know at every moment exactly what's going on somewhere, but to be about it and to fit some truths. Simply today there are technologies, there are webcams, there are all that need us phones, there are various ways to inform citizens that they simply or don't spend their time in vain or that those who need to live from it can do their job properly. I read some details when the law was already in preparation there almost a year and a half ago then some smaller ones rebelled that it would be shut down, I don't know if it would be with this law, that they would be banned from working, I think it was corrected, and that simply we who follow all, and especially the space of Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, etc., have their own activities that aren't meaningless. We have to respect both those and try to make this system together that will be even better than that which is not bad, which is really good, but upgrade it when we already have so much resources at our disposal and show here that we will take a step in the next year, two days when such a law is passed. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140042	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140043	I thank Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, the Honorable Assistant Minister, did not intend to report on this item of the agenda, but the debate was obviously like that of my colleague Boric, the fact that I am sailing across the Adriatic in the afternoon and every time I start to look at the report of the Maritime Meteorological Centre in Split that I know what sea awaits me to Korčula. And as I follow myself, I usually and regularly follow the data of the Maritime Centre in Split, I have remembered the importance of the data that your institution has, and in this I want to say something, which means data from the Maritime Meteorological Centre in Split. Namely, 2006. For 8 years, I led as then a State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, a working group for the making of regulations on ports, or place of refuge. The crucial data that we used at the time, and the holder of this study, was the Hidrographic Institute from Split, are the data that you have at your disposal and also the Maritime Centre in Split. What's this about? After the world in fact to Europe, in fact, Spain and France in 1999 and 2001 has been affected by the catastrophic pollution of the sea due to immersion, i.e. due to the harassing of tankers Prestiga and Erika, the international maritime organisation has found that in order to avoid such chaos and so much pollution of the marine environment that it is necessary at the level of the international maritime organisation or of all coastal states of the world to consider defining specific places, special ports where tankers or ships experiencing deaths, where the pollution of the sea is threatened by oil, oil, oil, etc., that the coastal state knowingly polluted a narrow area, one port, one but does not allow this spilling to take place 20, 30 miles from the coast as was the case of Erik and Pestige where I say the pollinated France and Spain coast. In this way, it was also recommended that the international maritime organisation have given guidance to coastal states that, based on data owned by hydrometeorological institutions and maritime centres, in terms of winds and waves, it defines on the coast and ports closest to the designated site where possible haemaria would occur. In this way, in 2008, we made this regulation on shelter sites, which, as I said in professional terms, worked by the Hidrographic Institute in Split, but all that was done except for these maritative conditions which special ports had what was important, crucially, were data from maritime centres or hydrometeorological institutions. As far as it was successfully done then, this regulation that was made and based on your data, was an attachment to the interstate maritime organisation to propose it to other, and other states, coastal states. So in the Adriatic area we defined 303 ports and shelters where we prescribed the weather on which the port was used. For the needs of the state maritime administration for the needs of the state maritime administration, a national search and rescue centre in Rijeka has been defined, which would then, in cooperation with the maritime centre in possible maritime hubs, determine where a number will reach and then knowingly pollute one port, so as not to destroy the entire Adriatic or vast part of the Adriatic coast. So with this I wanted to point out the importance of this regulation but which I say without your data would be a dead letter on paper because if they are not accurate and accurate data from the maritime meteorological center then we can bring the ship to one port and then do even more damage because of the wrong weather forecast, because of the wrong forecast of the sea, the height of the waves would do more damage than the benefits that would happen on such occasions. I also said this for the reason that, I also talked to the Director of the Hydrometeorological Institute that for the needs of the maritime centre in Split, equipment as far as I can hear is the location planned in Divuljes, so here is Mr. Secretary of State to you, the Ministry and other ministries, because the work of the State Hydrometeorological Institute is interdisciplinary, it is used, we heard the ministries, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers, the seamen, there is no group, there is no one in Croatia who does not use the data of the Hydrometeorological Institute and us who live by the coast is the maritime center of Croatia, as Mrs. Grodana Peric said in the morning, instead of good morning, you listen to the weather, what is expected during the day, especially if you go to the sea, especially if you go to sail, if you go in any way to work that is related to the sea. It would therefore be good if indeed the Government, or the RES, and above all, the Ministry of Energy and Environment were involved in the rapid resolution of these premises and buildings and equipment itself, so that the Maritime Meteorological Centre could indeed have adequate and space, adequate equipment to truly meet the purpose for which it is, which is defined by this law. So here's this segment that relates to the sea, which is the data that you're keeping in the catalog, it seems to me that this is an article of the 10th of this law that speaks of the data that is important. And another dimension that is very important, namely, I believe that... on the whole Adriatic is working about 30 different investments in the maritime system, primarily in the construction of ports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's not a single port that's built, upgraded, reconstructed, which doesn't have its own maritious study. There is not a single maritim study that does not have a wave study, which does not have a study, which defines a rose of winds, which helps the architect practically to figure out how and in any way to solve an individual port of nautical tourism so as not to actually build a port, build a waterfront, build a dam or do nothing to actually do harm and disable a sea circulation, clean the port itself. And that's what I say, rolling studies, studies relating to the construction of maritious, or maritious studies are almost unimaginable without this kind of data, and it's not possible to go into any construction at sea without using data that are largely stored in a catalogue run by the Maritime Meteorological Centre or DHMZ. That is why this law is very important, it is, as we have said technical nature, but what it means for all of life in Croatia is enough to say that each of us is almost daily using the data that you have so in this sense I support it. I thank Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, the Honorable Assistant Minister, did not intend to report on this item of the agenda, but the debate was obviously like that of my colleague Boric, the fact that I am sailing across the Adriatic in the afternoon and every time I start to look at the report of the Maritime Meteorological Centre in Split that I know what sea awaits me to Korčula. And as I follow myself, I usually and regularly follow the data of the Maritime Centre in Split, I have remembered the importance of the data that your institution has, and in this I want to say something, which means data from the Maritime Meteorological Centre in Split. Namely, 2006. For 8 years, I led as then a State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, a working group for the making of regulations on ports, or place of refuge. The crucial data that we used at the time, and the holder of this study, was the Hidrographic Institute from Split, are the data that you have at your disposal and also the Maritime Centre in Split. What's this about? After the world in fact to Europe, in fact, Spain and France in 1999 and 2001 has been affected by the catastrophic pollution of the sea due to immersion, i.e. due to the harassing of tankers Prestiga and Erika, the international maritime organisation has found that in order to avoid such chaos and so much pollution of the marine environment that it is necessary at the level of the international maritime organisation or of all coastal states of the world to consider defining specific places, special ports where tankers or ships experiencing deaths, where the pollution of the sea is threatened by oil, oil, oil, etc., that the coastal state knowingly polluted a narrow area, one port, one but does not allow this spilling to take place 20, 30 miles from the coast as was the case of Erik and Pestige where I say the pollinated France and Spain coast. In this way, it was also recommended that the international maritime organisation have given guidance to coastal states that, based on data owned by hydrometeorological institutions and maritime centres, in terms of winds and waves, it defines on the coast and ports closest to the designated site where possible haemaria would occur. In this way, in 2008, we made this regulation on shelter sites, which, as I said in professional terms, worked by the Hidrographic Institute in Split, but all that was done except for these maritative conditions which special ports had what was important, crucially, were data from maritime centres or hydrometeorological institutions. As far as it was successfully done then, this regulation that was made and based on your data, was an attachment to the interstate maritime organisation to propose it to other, and other states, coastal states. So in the Adriatic area we defined 303 ports and shelters where we prescribed the weather on which the port was used. For the needs of the state maritime administration for the needs of the state maritime administration, a national search and rescue centre in Rijeka has been defined, which would then, in cooperation with the maritime centre in possible maritime hubs, determine where a number will reach and then knowingly pollute one port, so as not to destroy the entire Adriatic or vast part of the Adriatic coast. So with this I wanted to point out the importance of this regulation but which I say without your data would be a dead letter on paper because if they are not accurate and accurate data from the maritime meteorological center then we can bring the ship to one port and then do even more damage because of the wrong weather forecast, because of the wrong forecast of the sea, the height of the waves would do more damage than the benefits that would happen on such occasions. I also said this for the reason that, I also talked to the Director of the Hydrometeorological Institute that for the needs of the maritime centre in Split, equipment as far as I can hear is the location planned in Divuljes, so here is Mr. Secretary of State to you, the Ministry and other ministries, because the work of the State Hydrometeorological Institute is interdisciplinary, it is used, we heard the ministries, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers, the seamen, there is no group, there is no one in Croatia who does not use the data of the Hydrometeorological Institute and us who live by the coast is the maritime center of Croatia, as Mrs. Grodana Peric said in the morning, instead of good morning, you listen to the weather, what is expected during the day, especially if you go to the sea, especially if you go to sail, if you go in any way to work that is related to the sea. It would therefore be good if indeed the Government, or the RES, and above all, the Ministry of Energy and Environment were involved in the rapid resolution of these premises and buildings and equipment itself, so that the Maritime Meteorological Centre could indeed have adequate and space, adequate equipment to truly meet the purpose for which it is, which is defined by this law. So here's this segment that relates to the sea, which is the data that you're keeping in the catalog, it seems to me that this is an article of the 10th of this law that speaks of the data that is important. And another dimension that is very important, namely, I believe that... on the whole Adriatic is working about 30 different investments in the maritime system, primarily in the construction of ports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's not a single port that's built, upgraded, reconstructed, which doesn't have its own maritious study. There is not a single maritim study that does not have a wave study, which does not have a study, which defines a rose of winds, which helps the architect practically to figure out how and in any way to solve an individual port of nautical tourism so as not to actually build a port, build a waterfront, build a dam or do nothing to actually do harm and disable a sea circulation, clean the port itself. And that's what I say, rolling studies, studies relating to the construction of maritious, or maritious studies are almost unimaginable without this kind of data, and it's not possible to go into any construction at sea without using data that are largely stored in a catalogue run by the Maritime Meteorological Centre or DHMZ. That is why this law is very important, it is, as we have said technical nature, but what it means for all of life in Croatia is enough to say that each of us is almost daily using the data that you have so in this sense I support it. I thank Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the State Hydrometeorological Institute, the Honorable Assistant Minister, did not intend to report on this item of the agenda, but the debate was obviously like that of my colleague Boric, the fact that I am sailing across the Adriatic in the afternoon and every time I start to look at the report of the Maritime Meteorological Centre in Split that I know what sea awaits me to Korčula. And as I follow myself, I usually and regularly follow the data of the Maritime Centre in Split, I have remembered the importance of the data that your institution has, and in this I want to say something, which means data from the Maritime Meteorological Centre in Split. Namely, 2006. For 8 years, I led as then a State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, a working group for the making of regulations on ports, or place of refuge. The crucial data that we used at the time, and the holder of this study, was the Hidrographic Institute from Split, are the data that you have at your disposal and also the Maritime Centre in Split. What's this about? After the world in fact to Europe, in fact, Spain and France in 1999 and 2001 has been affected by the catastrophic pollution of the sea due to immersion, i.e. due to the harassing of tankers Prestiga and Erika, the international maritime organisation has found that in order to avoid such chaos and so much pollution of the marine environment that it is necessary at the level of the international maritime organisation or of all coastal states of the world to consider defining specific places, special ports where tankers or ships experiencing deaths, where the pollution of the sea is threatened by oil, oil, oil, etc., that the coastal state knowingly polluted a narrow area, one port, one but does not allow this spilling to take place 20, 30 miles from the coast as was the case of Erik and Pestige where I say the pollinated France and Spain coast. In this way, it was also recommended that the international maritime organisation have given guidance to coastal states that, based on data owned by hydrometeorological institutions and maritime centres, in terms of winds and waves, it defines on the coast and ports closest to the designated site where possible haemaria would occur. In this way, in 2008, we made this regulation on shelter sites, which, as I said in professional terms, worked by the Hidrographic Institute in Split, but all that was done except for these maritative conditions which special ports had what was important, crucially, were data from maritime centres or hydrometeorological institutions. As far as it was successfully done then, this regulation that was made and based on your data, was an attachment to the interstate maritime organisation to propose it to other, and other states, coastal states. So in the Adriatic area we defined 303 ports and shelters where we prescribed the weather on which the port was used. For the needs of the state maritime administration for the needs of the state maritime administration, a national search and rescue centre in Rijeka has been defined, which would then, in cooperation with the maritime centre in possible maritime hubs, determine where a number will reach and then knowingly pollute one port, so as not to destroy the entire Adriatic or vast part of the Adriatic coast. So with this I wanted to point out the importance of this regulation but which I say without your data would be a dead letter on paper because if they are not accurate and accurate data from the maritime meteorological center then we can bring the ship to one port and then do even more damage because of the wrong weather forecast, because of the wrong forecast of the sea, the height of the waves would do more damage than the benefits that would happen on such occasions. I also said this for the reason that, I also talked to the Director of the Hydrometeorological Institute that for the needs of the maritime centre in Split, equipment as far as I can hear is the location planned in Divuljes, so here is Mr. Secretary of State to you, the Ministry and other ministries, because the work of the State Hydrometeorological Institute is interdisciplinary, it is used, we heard the ministries, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers, the seamen, there is no group, there is no one in Croatia who does not use the data of the Hydrometeorological Institute and us who live by the coast is the maritime center of Croatia, as Mrs. Grodana Peric said in the morning, instead of good morning, you listen to the weather, what is expected during the day, especially if you go to the sea, especially if you go to sail, if you go in any way to work that is related to the sea. It would therefore be good if indeed the Government, or the RES, and above all, the Ministry of Energy and Environment were involved in the rapid resolution of these premises and buildings and equipment itself, so that the Maritime Meteorological Centre could indeed have adequate and space, adequate equipment to truly meet the purpose for which it is, which is defined by this law. So here's this segment that relates to the sea, which is the data that you're keeping in the catalog, it seems to me that this is an article of the 10th of this law that speaks of the data that is important. And another dimension that is very important, namely, I believe that... on the whole Adriatic is working about 30 different investments in the maritime system, primarily in the construction of ports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's not a single port that's built, upgraded, reconstructed, which doesn't have its own maritious study. There is not a single maritim study that does not have a wave study, which does not have a study, which defines a rose of winds, which helps the architect practically to figure out how and in any way to solve an individual port of nautical tourism so as not to actually build a port, build a waterfront, build a dam or do nothing to actually do harm and disable a sea circulation, clean the port itself. And that's what I say, rolling studies, studies relating to the construction of maritious, or maritious studies are almost unimaginable without this kind of data, and it's not possible to go into any construction at sea without using data that are largely stored in a catalogue run by the Maritime Meteorological Centre or DHMZ. That is why this law is very important, it is, as we have said technical nature, but what it means for all of life in Croatia is enough to say that each of us is almost daily using the data that you have so in this sense I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140044	Thank you, too. You have a line from Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140045	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I forgot something in my discussion, so I wanted to replicate now about this use of data. Again, I'm going back to that storm of ours, which is simply a phenomenon that lasts for decades, historically, hundreds of years, and we have only one place in Senj, and then we have one big long line to Karlobag, and we're closing the road with a lot of different conditions, and so we're asking the Hydrometeorological Institute from there to a few stations in the most important places to know exactly the difference because I'm telling us it's happening to us that our roads are closing down and that depends on one employee of the Croatian roads that goes around the section and says now closes. It cannot depend on the individual, it must be based on data that is rapidly measured, which are quickly sent and which react quickly because we simply don't want to be slaves of the individuals who close the road on Friday and open it when they come back to work on Monday. This must not happen, and we have this move very wide, all the way down to Zadar, St. Rock, tunnels, etc. And that hydrometeorological institute must make a big step forward with these resources at its disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140046	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall take appropriate measures. And now you will be answered by Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140047	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Borić, the closure of certain roads or highways I very often witness, are not in the jurisdiction of DHMZ, but Croatian highways and Croatian roads. I also think that due to the prevention measures, highways in Croatia are closing more than on other parts of the road wherever I travel across Europe. Rarely when highways are closed across Europe, which is the case in Croatia. That is why I do not blame the institution that gives the correct information whether it is always necessary to close the highway, I am not sure for the reason why often times instead of driving along a broad and safe highway, it is referred to me on the state road through Obrovec, Gračac and Obrovec where I think I am much more insecure than on that highway that is closed. Therefore, it is a job that we will discuss when the Road Safety Act comes, or the Law on Public Roads, where we will certainly need to highlight these remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140048	Thank you, too. Now the closing statement will be delivered by Mr. Secretary of State Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140049	I would like to thank the honourable MPs and the honourable MPs. I thank you for understanding this initiative and the need to pass this law. Since this is the first reading we have written down all your remarks, they will be in the second reading, they will be entered or the text will be corrected according to them. My colleagues from the HSS that aren't here, I just need to say a few sentences about an ice defense system beats with a missile system so it doesn't stay in the air unsaid. Therefore, the Law on the Defence of the Fight System regulates this matter and that is the sole authority of the Ministry of Agriculture that DHMZ is only here an implementing operating body. However, here to be said, this topic probably requires a more extensive discussion because there are already expert analyses, professional, home-skilling, domestic intelligence, domestic professions, on the effectiveness of this system of defence against fighting there are foreign experiences, there are opinions of the European Commission, and of course there are some indicators on the other hand with, from the field and it will take a more extensive discussion. What I'm saying here is that it doesn't stay in the air, so there are no operational defences in the EU from fighting at national meteorological network level, it exists only in Serbia, so nowhere else in the European region, Romanians and Bulgarians have their own options, agencies within the Ministry of Agriculture, in other EU countries defence against fighting exists only in small areas and is carried out on an initiative by either individuals or local self-government and various activities and technical solutions, such as ground-based generators or aircraft. Therefore, such a system as we have in the Republic of Croatia today, which exists under this existing law, does not exist, the EU does not know. In addition, it is important to say that this system is not covered by the entire Republic of Croatia, but only by the north of the Republic of Croatia. As far as finance is concerned, as it was said here, the question has been raised where the money is, let me just say briefly, according to the 2017 DHMZ information. The system of defence costs Croatia about 13 and a half million kunas, according to the law of the Republic of Croatia, out of the budget each year separates 9 million kunas regularly, and it is not questionable, therefore, it is questionable that the participation of the counties that have to allocate 1% of their budget, indicators show that certain counties have a trend in the payment of those funds of the participation of the rocketers and ground generators, even in half of them are smaller than 5-6 years ago, so we see that in this space of 13 million kuna, where 5 million kunas cost only the salaries of the server and the ground-floor generators that work, which the missiles and, which serve the ground generators, cost 5 million kunas, 3 million are in 2017 was liquid for ground generators, then we see for ourselves how much money we buy new rockets, then we have now, we have somewhere according to these indicators DHMs that they know in 2018, 3 million kuna, 3 million dollars is the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the money, so the resources of the resources of the money, so the money, so the money, so we get the money, so the money of the money, so we's of the amount of the money of the money. Thus, ice fights are not the main cause or the greatest cause of the damage to agricultural cultures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140050	Thank you, too. You have three replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as I cannot address the director of DHMZ, I would like to rephrase to you in fact, that, together with Croatian roads, on the basis of this initiative that Mr. Boric said earlier, he is doing some sort of analysis of the evolution of highway closure in the Republic of Croatia. I use very much Croatian highways, especially the road towards Split and at the annual level, it is indeed a very large number of closures I speak, and often we who are forced to do so feel somewhere more insecure and where we stayed on the highway, so I think that together with the Croatian highways and Croatian roads, when it comes to the state road Karlobag or Senj, there is indeed some sort of analysis, comparison with other countries to see what extent and how and how to really close the highways for the safety of traffic and for the safety of passengers. Therefore, I do. to make it [[Intruder: Time]] It was good to think about it a little bit more. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140052	...beautiful. Thank you. Mr. Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140053	I thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here I wanted to help you a little bit and we heard here colleagues who spoke essentially about the inactivity of the ministry on combating climate change, so I would just like to point out here that it is in the phase, that in making one strategy of adaptation to climate change which is precisely the Republic, for the purpose of making the Republic of Croatia climate-resistant, it is now in public consultation, so all those who have today had a lot to say about climate change and the fight against them, have the opportunity to engage in public consultation and contribute to this great problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140054	Thank you, too. And at the end of the day, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140055	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I listened to you very carefully, and in the end, you mentioned the drought. So it's the drought that's characteristic of certain parts, and it's the drought that has lasting consequences, it's the drought that causes and the effects of the drought of the big fires somewhere, and the topic is, even today a really good article, I've looked at it, about how many animal species have disappeared due to climate change, but it's going to be alive, so the plant and animal world is adapting to new conditions, something's gone, some others are going to come about because of all these, but people are constantly acting like they're not there, that's a fact. Our Krara, I can only say for the few seconds now, the Repesh forest is a great example for me, the rapash forest that they said would be extinct, and it's not, so... left it longer and asked for water [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what man has done with his own actions [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] climate change and now it needs to see how it adapts to them. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140056	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140057	Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity, first reading, P.Z. No. 629. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity is hereby adopted and 1. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that unanimously with 122 votes Z, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140058	We move to the next point, the last item of today's agenda. - Report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2018. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty. Seven. The Mine Action Act. The debate was conducted by the Defence Committee and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Do we actually have two representatives, two ministries, to give an additional explanation? Mr. Zarko Katic and State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Mr. Zdravko Jakop are with us, probably both will say something, please. First is Mr. Katic, first is Mr. Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Your Honor. Representatives and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to inform you about the implementation of the mine action plan and the financial resources spent in 2018, as it was pointed out, of the demining of military facilities and buildings, you will be informed by the Secretary of State, Mr. Jakop. Mine pollution is a major economic, humanitarian and general social problem facing the end of the war. So they were demined, mined many areas vital to people's lives for economic activities ranging practically from our eastern border in the Danube to the far south to the Dubrovnik area. In this way, the work of many activities, primarily those carried out in the open space, agriculture, forestry, certain infrastructure works, could not be carried out in sufficient quality measures to protect against floods, fire protection, the use of many areas of interest for hunters, hikers, tourists, therefore, people living outside, but we also know that many gardens, roads, railways, waterways, etc. According to data obtained by the Croatian authorities after the end of the war in 1996 from the UN, mines suspected as much as 13 million km2 which is in fact a quarter of the land territory of the Republic of Croatia which, as you know, has slightly less than 56 million km2. After taking over these data and performing certain reductions, which took some time, with January 1, 2005. It was found that in the Republic of Croatia, mine suspected another 1174 km2 which was then marked with 17000 tables and since then, although demining started immediately at the beginning, but since then can be monitored year after year by reduction of this mine suspected space. During that time, the Republic of Croatia has also built its own operation, its own special mine-solving system, so today we have 40 companies actively involved in demining operations with about 700 pyrotechnicians and employees in demining with about 50 workers, except, therefore, people who are most important, we have 50 demining machines, we have 90 dogs, because this is one of the methods of demining through dogs and reduced areas in the area, so of 14 counties that were mine suspected, that they were polluted by mines, we have now come to 8 counties and 54 cities and municipalities. Total mine suspected space remaining on 31.12.2018. For which we submit this report, therefore, it was another 355 km2. Total reduction in last 2018 There were 56 km2, of which demining operations, the demining of mine suspected area was reduced by 48.8 km2, and by technical and general reconnaissance by an additional 7.2 km2. This resulted in 92 idea plans of demining, certificates of exclusion from mine suspected surfaces being issued. Out of 397 million 777 thousand 791 kuna that were secured in 2018, 386 thousand 774 thousand were realised, 317 kuna. This continued the trend from earlier years on the insurance of demining funds from the European Funds, so in 2018. The share of grants from the European Funds amounted to 36.8% of the total of the financial resources and resources provided and primarily from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The demining of agricultural land has continued and Ličko-Senjska, Sisak-Moslavina and Požega-Slavonska County have made payments for demining operations worth €66.5 million from the European Rural Development Fund's grants. When we talk about the structure of mine suspected space... Thinking that at the end of last year, about 4% of the agricultural land remained a total mine suspected area, 95.7% of the forest, so the forests are too heavy and 0.3% of the rest of the land are therefore shores, rocks, swamps, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The projects that were completely completed last year for which a clearance certificate was issued were found to destroy 979 pieces of mine explosives and 1409 pieces of unexploded funds. Most mine-explosive funds were found in Sisak-Moslavina County and unexploded killing funds in Lika-Senjska and also Sisak-Moslavina County. You may ask yourself and say that this is a relatively small number, so a little less than 1500 total mines or other materials, but these are the areas for which the exclusion certificate was issued is defined by law, so the real realization was greater and approximately last year approximately 9,000 pieces of mine explosive or unexploded killing funds were found, but the exclusion certificate was issued after 31 December, so in the previous months. The education and information of citizens on mine suspected area is very important, and at the end of last year the mine suspected area was marked with 12 thousand 800, I apologize to 12 thousand 280 warning tables on mine danger, or this would turn out to be 34 tables per square kilometre of mine suspected area, which is also a greater mark of about 15% per square km compared to the year before. The most important thing is that it did not occur last year, so in 2018 no mine incident, or mine accident, were killed or injured. Unfortunately, in the overall period from 1st after the war, we have been recording since 1 January '96. By the end of last year, there were 423 mine incidents where 595 people were killed, unfortunately 203 people fatal. Therefore, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, in collaboration with the authorities of the state administration and units of local and regional self-government, the civil sector and the local population, continued to carry out information and education on the dangers of, therefore, mines in a mine suspected area and to inform and educate about 21 thousand citizens through 95 activities. So I repeat once again at the end of last year the mine suspected area was 355.4 km square, today that by about 10 km/2 less and per plan for this year should reduce this mine suspected space by 50, slightly more than 50 km square. According to the available mine records, there are about 30,000 mines in this area to be removed and returned to the economy and citizens. Of course we'll never be able to say now that it's a definitive figure because there's still a record or there's a tip on some area that needs to be checked, to find out if there's been any war activities, if there's been any mining, etc. But what is evident, what we have quite reliable are records of another 30,000 mines that need to be removed from and removed from the ground or from the ground. Here are the 8 remaining counties to be demined and I would point out that last year's confirmation of mine exclusion for Brod-Posavina County, these remaining 8 counties are mostly like, from these data that I have left are more or less forest areas, let's say, if we talk about three Dalmatian counties where in Split-Dalmatia and Sibenik-Kninska, there are around 20 km/2 in Zadar, except for a very small area somewhere in the Ravna kotars, there are usually mountainous areas, so the southern slopes of Dinara in the Split-Dalmatia County and Svila area, also those areas of mountainous in Sibenik and Zadar-weighted area of Velebit, I say one small part still being performed around, in the Ravna Kotar area. Finally, I will mention that what you were sure to know, that on 30 November 2018, at the 17th meeting of the Ottawa Convention Member States, the request of the Republic of Croatia was adopted for an extension of the deadline, the completion of the commitments set out in Article 5. The Ottawa Conventions, therefore, clearance from mines, and destruction of anti-walking mines. This, therefore, is a unanimous and unambiguous requirement, the deadline has been extended for the next 7 years, so until 1 March 20126. With the existing capacities, which we have and the methods we use, the Republic of Croatia, will be demined and the mined area will be returned to use, economy and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140060	Thank you. The Secretary of State will now continue at the Ministry of Defence, Your Honor, Zdravko Jakop, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140061	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The demining of military sites and buildings in 2017 was carried out by an engineering unit, i.e. the engineering regiment of the Croatian Land Army, in carrying out demining tasks, 7 demining tasks were carried out, 5 of which were planned, and 2 outside of the planning activity, related to the implementation of the exercises. In doing so, a demining area of more than 185 thousand square metres was found and destroyed 16 anti-walking mines and 12 pieces of various unexploded killings. The deminings were conducted on the military polygon Eugen Quaternik on Slunj and on the military polygon of Gashenci or in 2 military stations. The total demining cost of military sites in 2018 for the Ministry of Defence amounted to around 2 million kuna, 2 million and slightly more, and the works of demining military sites were carried out effectively, so that we had no extraordinary events, with consistent application of procedures and humanitarian demining standards. A more complete report was submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140062	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative, a pardon, first we have on Secretary of State Katic we have more replicas, I've only seen this last one. First, the respected representative of Varg will.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Katić, I thank Mr. Jakop for your presentation and would like to commend all measures for demining the Republic of Croatia. My question is for one of you, if you can help me, since Croatia is a tourist country and these reports that you draw up on this topic and on this debate today, follow the media and monitor foreign agencies as a tourist country. Whenever the word Croatia and mine are mentioned, it is something that is not in line with the good picture of Croatia, as a tourist destination. We've had several cases, one on the island of Vis, one in 2005 a Norwegian tourist stepped on a leftover mine of JNA left behind after retreating from military facilities and that's something. My question is when will we be able to consider Croatia, a land that is mineless? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140064	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140065	Dear Mr. Representative, as I said in my presentation and pointed out that the extended deadline for the demining of the Republic of Croatia is now as the deadline of 1 March 2026, we will try to make sure that all the joints we are working on in this business, that this is before, we know how important it is that we can say that we are a completely safe country, for the local population and for tourists, but the mine problem we faced was extremely complex, large and we solve it in the best possible way. In the interest of me, we should do so before the deadline we formally received and granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140066	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140067	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. On 24 September 2009, the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategic document titled a national mine action programme, which provides that all deminings will be completed by 1 March 2019. Given that we are now in 2019 whether in preparation, one of such strategic documents is still 355.5 km below mines or suspected of being polluted by mines. And will that document provide for what with these 40 companies, then, 700 pyrotechnics after all deminings have been completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140068	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140069	Dear Mr. Representative, that from 2009 until the end of March 1, 2019, the national mine action programme was valid, it expired and worked intensively, a new national programme for the remaining, slightly less than 7 years will be included in it. The exit strategy for and our companies, we don't want these 40 companies and just over 700 pyrotechnics to find out they don't need the last day anymore. So they must prepare in time, so that they can reorient to other jobs or for their knowledge and experience to find jobs in other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140070	The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140071	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State Katić, therefore, one very comprehensive report and one simple mathematics, if it remains 355 km about 50 km can be mastered annually, it is 7 years, so here you are from your presentations, therefore, with one simple mathematics of what we must be aware of, we still have mines from World War II from time to time. Regardless of all this together, we are a country where it will surely happen again from this war. The more in the report when you talk about the percentage of that percentage you have left, the more you have left in the woods. Therefore, it is a very, very sensitive business, and it seems to me that it is better to look for and extend that deadline, i.e. not slave the deadline and try to make the cleaning situation known that it is probably ideal to expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140072	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140073	Unfortunately, in addition to mines from the Homeland War, Croatia still exists and mines from both World War I and II are found. World War I, they are most often in the aquarium, sea aquarium and the law that makes and the national programme will include these aspects, namely the removal of aircraft and other mines, which are located in our submarine, especially in an area that is attractive to sailing for sailors and for economic exploitation. So when this job, how to bring it to an end, we will also include solving mine problems in the Croatian submersible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140074	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140075	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, dear Secretary of State Katic, I agree with you when you say it's a complex job and it's absolutely not cheap or simple. But I think we can all agree that this is not a good situation that after 20 years and a few years since we had the last action in the war, we still have mine areas that are clearly a danger to all our citizens. But that's just how much money there is in music. But only one well-intentioned, or I hope it won't be these seven years that it takes us until 2026 to demine, that it will be much sooner. But a well-intentioned advice as my colleague Varga said, we are a tourist country. Here I was not long at sea, and along the highway towards Zadar, this clearly beautiful highway, in the area of Perusić, several meters from the highway, writes dangerous mines. It's a very bad picture, so here I'd like to give her maybe if you're a priority, you best know the priorities but it's really one area that should be cleaned up for tourists and for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140076	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140077	Of course, tourist facilities are those objects that are of more important economic interest priority and that they will be demined sooner. Well, anyways, we've been doing it all along that first we've got demining gardens, infrastructure roads, railways, etc., to get to mostly forest and mountain areas now. However, it will be difficult to do so overnight. I was in Paklenica for Easter holidays where there were many foreign and domestic tourists, safe roads are known and there are still on Velebit, everyone is well known for its still-minded area. We're going to be quick to remove mines from that area that's most vital to people's lives and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140078	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140079	So here's what my colleague Prelec was saying about Lica, when we look at that the Lika-Senj County area was the most affected and that everything there was 20km/2 cleaned up, so it remains over 110km/2 which is very much much, and given that you mentioned this part of our Zadar where it was reduced but not so much, but it remains on this part of Velebit, but given that we are relying on, as an electoral unit and the scope of the Licko-Senjska is really concerned this area that is very, very large and here we hope that it will be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140080	Thank you. And now, on the esteemed Secretary of State Jacob, we have a replica of the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140081	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I have the same thing on Mr. Katic, but I just got up too late, just as he was talking, is that a problem? Well, here I would just like to commend the report, and actually in your report, there is actually one illogicality that is, so you remember when these amendments to the Mine Action Act were, you are now boasting, in fact, the demining centre that reached 99% of the plan in 2018 and that you joined the MUP. [[Intruder Reiner: Good, good.]] You remember that we at MOST were very fierce against joining the MUP Croatian Mine Action Centre because it had these results that you have now shown in 2018 and we fear that because of this accession in 2019 there will be no such results.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140082	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140083	Dear Mr. Representative, the accession, so the Croatian Mine Action Centre, its people, its professionally trained employees have not disappeared, they are now incorporated into the MUP and continue to do their job. It will be a little bit, so a somewhat amended legislative and professional framework but they will continue to present the main burden of demining the Republic of Croatia in the remaining 7 perhaps, and hopefully less years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140084	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Obera for Internal Policy and National Security, respected representative Petar Škvoric, vice-president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140085	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on National Security and Home Policy yesterday discussed this report and I can conclude that the Committee praised the achievement of this plan, in particular, that this report for 2018 is much more quality and more relevant than previous reports. What is especially to praise is the end of demining almost entirely of all agricultural areas in our country and here, with this practical completion of work is the Ship-Posavina County is declared an area without mines. What is significant is that no mine incident was reported in the past year and no one was killed. The contribution is both prevention and safety tables, an increase of 15% of mine suspected areas. There was one circumstance that we discussed on the board, and it concerned the number of alerts received about mine-explosive inventions in areas already subject to demining. We had some of this uncertainty about the issue of supervision in these areas which, therefore, there are two bodies, one of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the other of the mixed commission in which the MUP is, but here, and here we have clarified the situation. In any case, we have concluded that, in the future, in all future reports, it is clearer and more precise to describe this procedure because we have one disproportionate and turns out that the boards of the Croatian Mine Action Centre have in a disproportionately smaller number seen shortcomings than this made the commission mixed after the end. But here are the shortcomings that have been explained to us, and with one vote, the committee with the abstention accepted this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140086	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, will be spoken by the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, we have before us a report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2018. As regards the report, the report is not a problem, however, it is seen that the mine action plan for 2018 is achieved and almost 99%. Technically, he failed a little, but due to sub-discipline, resulting from the excerpts of expert personnel, 29 pyrotechnicians retire, as explained in the report itself, page 22. What we believe is that the problem, when it was done so well last year, and also for the past 20 years, as the Croatian Mine Action Centre exists, was founded in February 1998 as an institution with a term of duration. Why is this institution recognised in the world as a leader in the establishment and implementation of the mine system and precisely because of its... abolished, or attached it to the MUP in 1.1.2019. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What this means for the system of mine action in the Republic of Croatia and how this will affect the very demining of the world's reputation will not even be spoken. The issue also, given that a constitutionally approved second request in the Republic of Croatia for an extension of the objectives of the Ottawa Convention ratified by the Assembly, I think in 1999, according to which mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia should be fully resolved by 1 March 2026. The request is granted on the basis and assumptions of 1.1.2018. CROMAC as an independent institution separate from the ministry and the capacities, people, machines and equipment and other, which existed on that day. Are your capacities the same today? I don't think so. A lot of people have left the system, the pyrotechnicians and the administrative staff trained for this very system. Some also retired, a profession because they have an unfettered internship or left the institution and went inside the MUP to other jobs unrelated to mine action. Will the Republic of Croatia be able to fulfil the commitments undertaken by the beginning of 2026 and continue on this issue and the merger that took place in 1.1.2019, is the system now, a fundamental issue, faster and more effective? We think we don't, therefore, support the report, but these amendments to the laws that we have not supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140088	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Angelko Strick will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140089	Vice-President of HS, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. When we talk about the theme of demining, we cannot, without stressing that this is the result of brutally large-serb aggression on the Republic of Serbia, whose consequences today are being resolved. According to data presented in September 95 by HV's Chief Staff, about 3 million anti-aircraft and anti-ion mines were placed in Croatia and there were over 100,000 unexploded grenades or mines and cannon missiles polluted about 300 hectares of land, and about a million hectares of land had to be examined for the removal of unexploded missiles. The demining process took place in three stages, and this was the first during the Homeland War, when there was no specific legislative framework, i.e. demining was done by HV and police units. The second period extends from 96-98, when HS adopts the first demining law, and one state-owned company, AKD-MUNGOS d.o.o., which conducts demining operations on a non-mining basis. We are now in the 3rd period, which began in 98 when the first amendments and additions of the Mine Action Act were adopted, which provides that demining operations can be carried out by legal persons registered for demining operations and that they can be registered if they have the approval of the MUP. For the first time, the Institute of Professional Control of Mine Action has been established and developed. Also from 98th to today, it has been spent or spent on demining more than 6 billion kuna from the EU's state budget, donations and World Bank support, etc. When we talk about a ten-year framework, I stress that HS is currently on September 24, 2009. The Council adopted a strategic document on this subject entitled ‘National Mine Action Programme’, which expired on 1 March 2019. And today we have had the opportunity to hear from the secretary of state to prepare a new one. The aim of this document was, firstly, to fully remove mine risk from the Republic of Croatia, secondly, to maintain the marking of mine suspected areas in all phases of mine problem resolution, thirdly, to develop and implement an education programme for the entire population living or related to those areas, fourthly, to continue to provide care and rehabilitation including psychosocial rehabilitation and economic reintegration to all mine and fifth victims, to position and promote Croatia's mine action system in the international community. The ten-year framework envisioned that the mine suspected area would be reduced by 944 km2, requiring 4 billion and 140 million kuna, however it was reduced by 627,9 km and spent 3 billion and 60 million kuna. When we talk about 2018. It should be noted that the plan of mine action was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at its 86th session held on 22 March 2018, that 11 ministries, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue were involved, and 8 counties in which mines remain. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mine suspected area was located in 8 counties, 59 cities and municipalities and what is important to highlight in, the boat-posavia County is 11 June 2018. declared county mineless. 1 January 2018 the mine suspected area was 411,5 km2, in order to take place on 31 December 2018. This area was 355.5 km2. When we talk about counties, I note that there are 49.8 km2, from or questionable area, 138.2, Osijek-Baranja 55.7, Požeko-Slavonska 24 km2, Split-Dalmatia 20.1, Sisak-Moslavinaska 70.6, Sibenik-Kninska 22.2 and Zadarska 30.9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A total of 989 pieces of mine explosives and 1409 pieces were destroyed by the review of these areas... Taking into account the counties where the most mine-exploded and non-exploded killings were found in the first place is Lika-Senjska with 1039, on the second Sisak-Moslavina with 813, on the third carlovačka with 276, on the fourth Sibenik-Kninska with 143, on the fifth Zadar with 45, on the sixth place of Posak-Slavonska with 29, on the seventh Split-Dalmatia with 25, on the eighth Osijek-Baranja with 16 and 9th boat-seat only 2, two anti-walk mines and as I already pointed out in 2018. was declared a county without mines. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the implementation of the final quality controls, the Commission found in 30 cases that the tasks had not been carried out in quality, and ordered a repeat of operations to a total of 320,483 m2. And most importantly, in 2018, there were no incidents or any of the people were killed, and there were no injuries or injuries, but it is important to stress here that from 1.1.2006 to 31.12.2018 423 mine incidents and accidents in which a total of 525 people were injured, 203 persons, 203 fatal, 281 serious physical injuries, and 120 sustained minor physical injuries. Finally, we have a new period ahead of us, the adoption of a new strategy where the preconditions for getting out of the process will be created and of course what pleases me, which the State Secretary stressed will also find solutions for these 40 companies dealing with the business and their over 700 employees. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140090	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, very briefly, I am not going to go into this report in detail now, but some of the things I want to stress is that we in the SDP consider it important and that we are satisfied that after almost 20 years this whole demining process of Croatia is slowly coming to an end which is very important and not only for the safety of our citizens but also for economic activities, since much of our country and those agricultural areas and everything has been covered by mines. This deadline has already been extended for several years, and it is now as planned for two years as it seems to end the whole demining process even though I think it will continue in the future, we can never finish cleaning up the entire area of our country. Here's a testimony to this is an event that took place in my neighborhood 5, 6 days ago, so an older gentleman died and after, his heirs went to clean his house in the basement they found an airplane mine from World War II he kept in his basement where he treated nails in the workshop, not knowing at all how much death he was exposed to, it was namely in Crikvenica and now it's so rehabilitated, so it's that mine from World War II lags, so we'll probably, in the future as long as we end it will always be exposed to these events and in the future. So that is why, and when this whole process is over, we should continue to educate our citizens and constantly warn about these dangers. In the coastal part of Croatia, here is where I live. Often, mine finds from World War II and seas that are lagging behind and so on. So that's one constant problem that is present. However, this large clearing to which we are approaching is very important. It is also very important in 2018 that there are no victims in this whole process, it is, always good when there are no excesses and that no one is injured but it says and how much our pyrotechnicians let's say reported this work in the last few years and that's what we want to stress now. So one large part of our pyrotechnics will, in a few years' time, be practically out of work and think about it. So about where we see this opportunity, so we see that our people who are, of course, going to retire, one part will go to other jobs, but one large part of them could find a job for them outside Croatia's borders. So in countries that have a problem. We were in the Croatian Parliament, a year and a half ago I was in a delegation from the Parliament who received the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Colombia at a meeting and Colombia has a huge problem with the mined areas and we just mentioned to the lady there the situation that Croatia should complete its process over 2.3 years and it has shown Colombia's great interest in our experience, our knowledge and our experts. And these are the places where our people could make and earn and work well, but also carry some of the experiences they've gained in this situation, our situation and our misfortunes that we've had and where they can pass on their knowledge to others but also earn, have a job for themselves but also make a living for the country. So that's one space that's just opening up and I'm appealing to you to take care of it, because there's still time, but it would be good if the moment it ends in Croatia that our people are ready and that they can already go to foreign markets. We're not yet satisfied, or we're not sure if this attachment to the MUP was good, it'll show for a while, we have some more doubts, but here for now we won't be making any criticism, but we'll let some flow of time do it anyway, so let's see. And we also join the appeals that the future reports show this surveillance of additional demining are controls because there was a lot of empty space, so let's say that when based on one mine found, then, it's not detailed, which is why control has determined certain areas that are not well cleaned, so let's not say that information exactly, which opens up the space immediately so that it doesn't know whether the demining area was again but demining, which I believe it isn't. But that is why in the future these data should be more precise and detailed in order to eliminate all these doubts. Most of the time, here's what I think we're going to end up supporting this report. So with the report itself, I have no problems, and I have to keep going and do this job better in the coming period, and I'm ready to finish this process. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140092	Thank you very much. We are moving on to an individual debate, which is reported by the respected representative Petar Škvoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140093	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, more or less colleagues have said everything about the reports, it is not always a waste in such a situation as fellow Strick mentioned to visit why we have mined areas, what are the causes of who created them, who created our problems, which is why we have lost thousands and thousands of people, and therefore here and in the war period, so 25 years since the war today people in Croatia are suffering, anxiety and disabled from coming into possession of their countries and, in general, we do not have a completely clean and free country from mine areas. The reason is, of course, great Serbian aggression. Here's a little bit of land that's so busy with mines that confirms here and the genocidality and the bestiality of practically an enemy whose goal was primarily not only to occupy areas but also to kill, so shine victims at every step, and unfortunately the state today suffers not only in the field of demining but also today we have more than a thousand more missing persons we're looking for and that will follow us in the future. All in all this report and this plan is essentially presented for last year is quality, good, meaningful. I'm more concerned about the same future and the period that's coming. So we see that the deadlines extend that things are unpredictable and the Ottawa Convention is extended until 2026 next year, and the deadlines are up until when the European funds are secured, I think 36% of these demining funds, 26% of the useful functions of the Croatian forests, the rest of the state budget. Here I think that it is now to be prepared, how it will be replaced, this five-year funding period, I hope that there will be some other possibilities and sources, that it will not exclusively reach out for the state budget. We also see that after 50 km of square, it demines annually, I don't know what performance assessments are at this rate, whether by the end of this period, this job will succeed and end and whether we will have Croatia without mines. So much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140094	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the rapporteur, on behalf of the finalist, he will say something, dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you all for your suggestions and suggestions and for how much I have heard of supporting this report. This is a very sensitive, difficult, serious job, full of danger and the goal is for all of us to have it done in the most qualitative way, to be well supervised by those controls in the course of demining, to complete surveillance, but also control, so it goes to the Croatian Parliament and the Government, so that as quickly as possible, as best as possible, in real time, they demining the Republic of Croatia and preventing the deaths of people, but of course, economic damage. It was brought out here,... in this new, accession of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the Ministry of the Interior, we will do everything, to take advantage of the positive side of this accession, therefore less spent funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To exploit, the logistics services of the Ministry of Interior are primarily related to writing projects and attracting European funds, so that they are even more quality, projects, better prepared, and attracted, quality spent, as much as possible. And as it is said, I think, for this year's report, we'll be able to document it. The minimality of the Croatian area, for example, in last year, has been potentiated again in the light of the migrant crisis and the transit of migrants through the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and it is cornered. It's going on and the pressure's on the corner. He was in that area, which, therefore, these central counties, where as you saw from the data and is the largest mined area, therefore, the area of Sisak Moslavina, Karlovačka, Lika Senjska County. Fortunately, it wasn't, at least, familiar to us, the victims of migrants, because of this problem, because of a low problem. Sadly, they were affected by other situations in the field, water, or untransparent terrain. So there were interests and foreign media about it, we reported both domestic and foreign to the public about this problem and we will work to solve the mine problem as planned, no later than 2026. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140096	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. She's the rightful representative of Davor Eve Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. It is also mentioned in the discussion and international co-operation, on this issue, in particular the Colombia case, so that it can complete that information and what the government has done through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, it seems to me at the end of 2016 or early 2017. Croatia has joined the European Mine Action Fund in Colombia and thus has opened up a simple for our co-operation with Colombia, but also of course to Croatian companies, which have a great experience in demining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140098	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140099	Just that last year the same is visible in the report, were contacts with services and governments and agreed bodies, Sudan and Tajikistan. So there are some discussions and certainly this exit strategy must include and work on what our companies will do when mine problems are resolved in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, there are many countries still under mines and already our pyrotechnicians work in many countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140100	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140101	Just for a little while around these doubts of joining the M.O.P., so why are there doubts? So, the demining centre, while it was, let's say, so out of the MUP, there's still one independence and professionality, a little higher, because it's not under any structures. But it doesn't have to be bad, let's say the employees of the MUP, the cities and the municipalities, when, again, I say, from the example of my neighborhood where I live, if there's some kind of a mine left behind, for example. In the sea, the job is usually done by the local police. If there were no special police, although I do know that there were thoughts in the MUP a few months ago, perhaps, except in Zagreb, it would have been put out in Rijeka, Split and Osijek, so I am glad, because it would have led to an entire process of events in question. But let's say special police do this job for cities and municipalities. If there were no special police and their pyrotechnicians, cities and municipalities would have to hire companies, they would have to pay for it, which is the cost of over a million kunas, and I'm not even sure that cities, municipalities, so small in the coast would have the resources at all. So let's say, that's the good part within the M.O.P. through which these jobs are done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140102	Thank you very much. That would conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Let me now, let me tell you, that we will continue to work on Thursday, May 2, at 9.30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 625. Now I'd like to give a break from 12 minutes to 13 hours when it's going to be then taking a stand on behalf of the clubs, as usual. MEETING IN 12.50 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-26-0.u140103	The report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2018 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the mine action plan and the financial resources spent for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 115 for and 1 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
