ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138278	Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. President. I welcome all MPs and MPs. So this week, as far as the Ministry of Administration is concerned, the entire reform package is in front of this respected House. We started on Tuesday with the Law on Civil Service, today we continue with the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State Officials and the Law on the System of State Administration. This law regulates the obligations and rights of civil servants in government bodies and lays down officials within the meaning of this law and lays down coefficients for the calculation of wages. As the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, a new body of the State Administration is established, which is the State Inspectorate, which is established as a central state office, it is prescribed that the work of the State Inspectorate be managed by the Chief State Inspector, who is a state official. Following this proposal for a law, the Chief State Inspector is proposed to establish an official within the meaning of this law and to propose to establish a salary accounting coefficient for that position. It also replaces that old name from the old law with a new name, meaning that the Chief Inspector of the State Inspectorate is replaced by the words of the Chief State Inspector. Also, in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central authorities, another new body has been established, and this is the Croatian Fire Department. It was established by law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints a chief fire commander until the start of the operation of the Central State Office, and this proposal proposes that the Chief Fire Commander be identified as an officer and proposes to set a salary accounting coefficient for the same. This draft law also proposes to bring the name of the Head of State Administration's Authority in line with the new names set out in the proposal for a State Administration System Act, which will be a second point and the current name, directors of state administrations, is replaced by the name of the Head of State Administration, State Administration and State Directorates. The coefficient for calculating the salary of the head directors of state offices, state offices and state directors remains unchanged compared to the current coefficient of directors of state administration organisations. The proposal for this law also deletes the names and coefficients for ministerial assistants, which are also regulated by the State Administration System Act, and also provides for continuity in the exercise of the rights of current assistant ministers and directors of state administration organisations, states that the salaries of assistant ministers and directors of state administration organisations, up to their resolution from those duties, will be calculated according to the coefficient of 5.27 by which the bill is paid for those officials, positions under the current law. Here, I have sought to briefly present all these changes that are happening in this proposal or amendments to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138279	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have four replicas, the first one's a colleague, Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138280	Dear Mr. Law on civil servants, Croatia has more civil servants than the British Empire in the 19th century. What do those heads do, what's the effect on the field, if you're doing security checks for those people who come into those services, say now for inspections, it took 30 years to form. What about penalties for those who break the laws, who receive bribes, corruption at work, five years is minimum for those people in prison, if there are any fines. Loss of pension, pay coefficients, how you're going to evaluate these people, what is it, watching tax scandals, sucking roads, nothing's done yet. We're just waiting for some things, we're taping in place, this is another one for me, I'm sorry you're not listening to me, another Podekin village, how you're going to evaluate these people, when we can expect results on corruption, audits, privatisation and robbery. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138281	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138282	Therefore, the Honorable Representative is firstly not part of the State Employees Act, but rather of amendments to the Law on State Officials, and as regards the Law on Salaries, it is also part of the reform package that the Government is preparing by the end of the year, except that the Labour and Pension System Act is in charge of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, and it will also be in the parliamentary procedure this year. In addition, the Ministry of Administration is responsible for drawing up the Coefficients Regulation and the way in which the staff is evaluated so that during this year the whole reform package will be offered here to the parliamentary representatives for consideration and voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138283	The second one's a colleague of Bacic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138284	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I have a brief question with respect to this package of laws that goes into the Croatian Parliament regarding the reconstruction of the state administration and has become a certain number, which is some 96 state officials who will no longer be officials here, but will turn into officials, i.e. I would like to know whether the ministry has been doing certain statistics or a certain analysis of how much savings it will bring down the number of officials at Croatian level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138285	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138286	I thank you, so the ministry has made precise statistics means savings on housing costs and all the other costs that state officials have are about 10 million kunas per year.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138287	Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138288	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, and I will say, however, that it is rude that the minister is not here today, it is quite rude, perhaps I should use a harsher term.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138289	Comrade Sagar, my colleague, I beg you, it is not rude, it is a decision and the right of a minister, so I ask you not to give such an assessment, it is not rude, it is his political decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138290	I agree with you it is his political decision, and I agree also that we can make assessments because this, these two laws, this and the following law are extremely important laws and concern the future of the Croatian public administration. You see what we've been brought into, this, the next bill will introduce the so-called law. Revolving the door, and now with this legal proposal we've come into a situation if we don't bring it in in time that one man won't get paid. That's the Chief State Inspector. What are these advisers who should be employed in the ministry who should advise the minister and his administration to pass laws in time so that they do not come into this situation, because we here in the Croatian Parliament have been working on amendments to the law only because we have introduced a state inspectorate. We still haven't passed the law to pay that man's salary. It's a job that's not serious and that's taking too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138291	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138292	So, the ministry is very serious and studio-accessible, so we've been working on this whole package of laws for six months, that's one fact. Another fact means that the minister has other obligations to do with the protocol today, so it is not at all crucial whether the minister is here or not, it is important that we have prepared the whole package of laws, meaning a package that guarantees a comprehensive public administration reform. And as for your question about Article 47. The law of civil servants, officials, the Law on the System of State Administration, so that's the second point, so I'll make it clear when the law is under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138293	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, it's a little weird for me to pick up after this Mr. Grmoya and the Downhill, but it doesn't matter. So I have a question for the secretary of state. [[Intruder: No, no colleague registered, but I've classified both, if you want, I can talk to those before you.]] So, in fact, we had to change 20 laws for one man, and this is Mr. Andrija Mikulić to become this state inspector, and here you are talking about depolitizing this system, so what kind of depolitisation is it if a man comes to such an important body from a party structure, so it's as if you're saying that the Croatian Football Federation is depolitized by putting your friend Mr. Kustic on the head of a football alliance. So, there's no question of depoliticisation here, but exactly party personnel are being put into important positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138295	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138296	So it's incorrect that 10 laws were changed because of one man. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a comprehensive analysis of the meaning of the work of inspections and this analysis has shown that it seems to me that in 2014, a major mistake was made when these inspections were classified by the ministries. It did not work well, so the way these inspections worked led to considerable additional costs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia's thoughts and proposed through all these packages of legislation that unifying the meaning of the State Inspectorate would bring much more effective work of inspectorates on the ground, but would also lead to significant savings in the work of inspectorates and unification in one place. There's so much thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138297	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138298	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, you claim it's not true that 20 laws have changed because of one man and we all know what's been going on, we all know since Mr. Mikulić figures for the Chief State Inspector, and that's true. So what the opposition has been saying all this time, and we now have a situation where a man is setting himself up politically, that this is about pure politicisation, as a colleague of Sladolov says, and it could be freely called Mr. Mikulić's chief state racketeer means that you, as HDZ, have put the head of the State Inspectorate, and thus you want to keep in subjection to all those who create something in this country, so if they accidentally rebel against you, something you said will surely send them an inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138299	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138300	You're not even looking at the whole pact that we represent, so that's what we represented on Tuesday and that here today means we're also representing with these two laws. You're focused on the state's chief inspector and you don't see that we're removing 96 assistants, that we're rationalizing 10 million kunas, means we're introducing government officials, we're professionalizing public administration. So your right is of course to focus on one point as a parliamentary representative, but I ask you all to look at the total package that we will present this week in the Parliament, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138301	And colleague Podolnjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138302	Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I hope that in some time today you will be able to bring the secretary of the administration to talk to him a little bit about these important issues and about this god-awful depolitisation of him. There will be a lot of debates on behalf of the club but one question, you claim all the time that ministerial assistants disappear and that the number of officials held for them is reduced by a hundred while you are actually pipettes in the bill instead of assistant ministers will come to the head of state administration, state administrations and state administrations as state officials. So we're changing a name that's leaving for now in history, assistant ministers, instead principal directors, administrations, state offices, directors as state officials appointed and resolved by the government. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138303	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138304	I don't think you've fully read this proposal. So it says here specifically as far as the principal's concerned, nothing changes. So the same coefficients remain, the same status remains and everything else changes 96 assistants, so 96 assistants who are officials will no longer be. So they won't have the rights of the State Officials Act, we'll save 10 million kunas if we just talk about finance and professionalization will be visible through the fact that new government officials are elected in public tenders unlike political appointments of officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138305	Please, colleagues, let's treat the government's representatives correctly and not throw it out of the bench that way. We're going to the committee's reporters now, are they picking up? No, I don't. My colleague Reiner, Jelkovac, nothing. Then I open the debate, first of all it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed Ante Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138306	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. The Secretary of State warned us at the beginning and mentioned several things that change with this package of laws regarding the reform of the state administration that will still come to the Croatian Parliament and this law regulates the rights and obligations of state officials in the bodies of the state government and determines officials in terms of this law and prescribes coefficients, salaries for them. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration established a new body of the State Administration, which is the State Inspectorate established as a central state office. The State Inspectorate Act stipulates that the work of state inspectors is managed by the Chief State Inspector who is a state and official. Following this proposal, the Chief State Inspector proposes to establish duties within the meaning of this law and thus to establish and calculate the pay coefficient for the same. For the Chief State Inspector, a salary coefficient of 6.21 is proposed in view of the width of the section of the number of employees who will be in the State Inspectorate itself and all the responsibilities they will have as head of that body. It also erases the name which was old and is related to the Chief Inspector of the State Inspectorate, which will no longer exist with these amendments to the law. In accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the establishment and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration, which is the establishment of a new body of the State Administration, this is the Croatian Fire Department, and in Article 23(7) of the same law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints a chief fire chief until the start of operation of the Central State Office. This bill also proposes that the chief fire chief is a state official and that the same accounting coefficient is also proposed and the applicable Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials found that the State Secretary of Central Government of Croatia is a fire department established from now on as a central office. This bill also proposes to align the name of the Head of State Administration with the new names set out in the proposal for a Law on the System of State Administration. So that the current director of state administrations is replaced by the names of the Head of State Administration, State Administration and State Directorates, and in accordance with the proposal of the Law on the System of State Administration, which changes the management method of the Management Organisation, in the system of the Ministry, and so far the position of Assistant Ministers is replaced by the jobs of the Head of State Officers, which the Secretary of State has informed us in its opening statement. The proposal for this law deletes both the names and the coefficients for ministerial assistants, bit by bit to ensure the continuity of current ministerial assistants, determines the coefficient from 5.27 to their own resolution, and we see in the transitional final provisions, related to the inspectorate, only the duration, as well as the entry into force. For certain provisions of this law, it is also proposed to lay down the entry into force of 1 June 2019 as regards the provisions which comply with the proposal for a law on the system of state administration. The State Secretary himself has told us statistics and savings that will come with these changes and additions, which is 96 assistants, ministers will no longer be officials, from now on, i.e. by way of this law, but also by reshuffled the entire public administration, from now on the assistants to the end of their resolution will remain under this coefficient, but at the annual level, when others, when other officials, are elected in the ministries through competitions and thus are available for a wider population and for a larger circle of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, will be saved at an annual level of some 10 million kunas, but I think we are constantly in charge of the debate and we are not touching this problem of the assistants or of the state administration itself, or all of this in this reform package of laws will come before the Parliament. We've been focusing exclusively on the inspectorate, but I think we've ignored, one important part of these changes and additions, and it's about the fire department. We know that it is in the procedure and the Fire Department, but precisely these changes and additions of the Croatian Fire Department, will become the central office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the government will appoint the chief commander, and the fire department will finally, after all years, move both from the state administration and the police, finally move to the body, where it actually belongs, and this is the Croatian Fire Department, so we know the tradition of normal firefighting in the Republic of Croatia, and how much this is not only a reformal but revolutionary undertaking for all firemen of the Republic. Following all of this, the HDZ Club proposes to adopt these amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138307	Thank you. The second Club of Representatives is the Bridge of Independent Lists, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138308	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The first reading of the Bill on the Rights and Obligations of Officials will be preceded by a proposal for a Law on the System of State Administration. We have a relatively small text, a legal text that changes several articles, and the law itself is actually very short and actually deals with the rights and obligations of government officials, states that all officials in the Republic, we have which are their coefficients. At first let me point out one thing, which, I would say is not random, but it is absolutely resilient. In fact, if you look at Article 1 you will see that this law has been changed very often. I gave myself a hard time, so I sum up all the changes to the law, which were since his adoption in '98. Sir, if I'm not mistaken, we've changed this law 33 times before. So this is 34 changes ahead of us. I wouldn't bet, there are colleagues or colleagues here, who are much longer in the Croatian Parliament, but I don't know if there's a law that's been amended so many times that it's not, that there's no consolidated text of the law. Is there a law that has been amended 33 times, which means on average more than once a year, and that the consolidated text of the law has never been made? You know what our Rules of Procedure says? Article 62 of the Rules of Procedure, it is the responsibility of the Legislative Committee to establish and issue the consolidated text of the law, when that act has been amended or amended at least three times, three times. This one's been changed 33 times. Now, it's clear we didn't respect the rules of procedure, and we didn't respect it, but I don't know how many years back. Now I'm actually interested and it's asking a question, and why haven't we regulated the consolidated text or at some point proposed a whole new text of the law? Because I realized that the proposed Government of the Republic of Croatia does not, as a rule, want large debates on laws governing the rights and obligations of officials to be held. Because when you look at this law, it's mostly about supplementing new categories of officials or changing their names or replacing them for something. So you also have in this case, for example, that the Chief Inspector of the State Inspectorate is replaced by the words of the Chief State Inspector, you add the Chief Fire Commander, you change some names of individual officials, for example the assistant ministers who disappear within hours. So new names will be changed by the principal directors of state administrations, state administrations, state administrations, etc. But I'm asking you if you're sure that after 33 changes without the consolidated text of the law we really know how many of these categories there are, who's really taking care that what we see in the back of the legal provisions that are changing that this is really order and list of officials that currently exist in the current legal text. You have in one provision that says about this, the present subparagraph 26 is deleted, and now you must actually look at these legal provisions that should be in force in Article 1 and that is the 26th subparagraph, then you can see that these are ministerial assistants if this is precisely the applicable legal text. Because it is likely that in those 33 amendments, sub-items have been changed, deleted or complemented as we are now supplementing a new sub-assembly which is, for example, the main fire commander and the new 14th is added for paragraph 13. I think that this legal text is probably so unseen and I really don't believe that after 33 changes in which every such change is likely in any such change to the name of the official, the change in the introduction of new categories of government officials or the erasure of an existing category, and that is exactly how many of these cases we have, and in this proposed legal text, in fact, states only one conclusion that, after 33 amendments to the law, no consolidated text has been made to really see and how many of these state officials there are, which are all categories, now. It would be interesting that somewhere today, we will also discuss the proposal for a Law on the System of State Administration so that we know how many of these government officials actually have. If there really was one consolidated text of the law that the Committee of Law is in charge of then we could really see and count how many of these state officials there are, how many hundreds or what that number is. Here I ask the secretary of state who's here, I asked him because the assistant ministers are being wiped out of the law, they're disappearing, so about a hundred of them, but instead state officials are going to be chief directors of state administrations, state administrations and state administrations, so how many of these government officials are going to be? They are naturally appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. How many are there going to be? And they will be by the ministries, headed by the state administration. Is there gonna be 20, 40, 60, 80? We have, what, 20 ministries, how many of these state institutions? But it would be really good to know how many of those state officials with those names will be. As we point out, therefore, it is pointed out by the proponent that the ministerial assistants are being abolished, that there will be a hundred fewer states. But definitely one part of those officials will replace the new officials with a new name. Because indeed, of course, certain laws will either form certain state administrations or state institutions or directorships and yes, but today there is a certain review or a certain number or a potential number of these places and new government officials. But I believe that no one among you colleagues or colleagues actually knows what that number of state officials is. And it certainly does not contribute to the fact that this law is absolutely impenetrable. Now someone delivers to you the People's Newspaper with all 33 changes since '98. And if you try to work on the consolidated text of the law, it would probably take you a lot of time. I don't even know how they manage in the government, or in the ministry, when they propose an amendment and a supplement, in some article, in some sub-paragraph, etc. In particular, in this Article 1, which in turn lists certain categories of government officials. And the Legislative Committee, in that sense, did not do what it had to do. Of course there's a very large number of laws that have been changed three, four, five times, so they haven't, they haven't made the consolidated text of the law, but this one's been changed 33 times. And I think in practice, at least in the three years I've been in the Croatian Parliament, I haven't come across a law that's been changed so often. And I think the key reason, exactly, is that it becomes completely untransparent to us the content and many categories of government officials, which have been introduced in certain amendments and additions to the law. And I'm not absolutely sure that these provisions of the law, which are changed in art. One, that's really true, this series of government officials. After all, and what you stated in the article. This is some kind of off-the-book text of Article 1 after 33 of the amendment. This is an off-the-book text that you actually sort of put together after all the changes and additions. But you should suggest, too, and it would be logical to propose a new law since it has changed so often, but then of course we would be discussing in general how many government officials we have. And do we have too many different categories and really constantly new categories? About whether it's really depolitisation, I'm absolutely not convinced. You have shown recently, when a person is named at the head of a public institution, the Krka National Park, based on a public tender, it is actually, the very process, which should be transparent by the rules of the profession, will be chosen by the highest quality person, not in this way implemented. And to the general court of the public, it wasn't the most professional, the most qualified person, who had the best professional references for the conduct of that duty, it was the person who had the party card. According to how to believe in depolitisation, in public tenders, which will ultimately lead to the appointment of the best and most professional person? When you recently set an example for us, for which the public, by the general court of the public, was unequivocally not selected the most professional and the most qualified person on the job of the director. So we have absolutely no confidence that these amendments to the laws that you are proposing today are already a real contribution to depoliticalisation of the state administration. The bridge of independent lists will not accept and support the proposed text of the law in a further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138309	Now it's the SDP's club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138310	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, it would be logical that for these two laws we had a united debate because they are very attached to each other, but as they are not, then in this section I will refer to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. It is true that this law has experienced 30 amendments and it is true that no one has, after it has been passed, and that is at least how we can see here from the number of National Journals, when it was first published in 1998 because it did not want to open a debate on the entire system of state officials, but only what is specifically changing. So in this case, therefore, we have the law, by adding the chief fire chief, by replacing the words of the director of state organisations, by replacing the words of the head director of state administrations, i.e. the state administrations of institutions and state directors, and by erasing the assistant ministers. There is also one, one opinion that state officials are politicians, which is partly true, so to the most extent, they are, but they are also there. Advocates, Supreme Court judges, then the Registrar of the Constitutional Court and the Registrar of the Supreme Court, etc. from the Chairman of the National Minorities Council, etc. They choose in different ways, I'll talk about it later. The main provision that is fundamentally amended is the abolition of the article in art. 1. Deleting sub-paragraph 26, respectively, erasing ministerial assistants first as dear officials, and then in the system of the Law on the System of State Administration and at all erasure of that function. I don't know if it was accidentally missed, but at the level of ministerial assistants, or those who manage management organisations in the form of ministries, they are in the article. 1st and Director of Customs and Tax Administrations. So I don't know if the intensity was that they remain state officials, because those leaders are within the framework of the ministries, so that in the second reading, if it is intended, that the administrative organisation within the framework of the central authorities is managed by officials, then the Director of Customs and Tax Administration should also be deleted from the list of state officials. Whether management organisations within the Ministry's frameworks will be managed by officials or officials is a matter that has been resolved in Croatia for the last 20 and a few years, by 2005, by 2006 by ministerial assistants as persons appointed by the Government and since 2006, in 2008, I do not know exactly which, by 2012, the directors of the administration as civil servants, also appointed by the Government, have been appointed by the public call to which those who were ministerial assistants were generally called by the time they were then appointed to the highest extent. It's one scam that's not actually politicization, but re-politicization, so while you had politically appointed officials, you knew that they were politicians, and then they were the same ones who named them as officials, so that story is trying and now it's going to make a very clear position that we're not going to be for such a change. So it's important whether the people who run the Ministry's administration are doing it right or not, or whether their status is official or official when they're appointed by the government anyway. The majority of ministerial assistants I am quite sure will report to these tenders, public calls and be appointed by the Government for civil servants, and thus we have received another part of the politicians in the state service, the assistant ministers after the term of office, can be resolved or re-named, if resolved, have the right or return to do so at that time or 6+6, if they are not resolved, continue to work. So this story about 10 million kuna savings because there won't be an assistant minister, it doesn't stand. I mean, I've been questioning her, as I haven't thought of it, but in fact, at their place will come another or the same who's going to work seems to me for the same salary or greater, but it's here somewhere, it'll continue to manage administrative organisations within the ministries so that there are no savings, there would be savings to remain ministerial assistants and to reduce the number of administrations in the frameworks of the ministry that we made in 2012. The savings would be to reintroduce, instead of 3 or 4 the secretary of state, one deputy minister, then there would also be savings which we did in 2012 but if only the assistant ministers were replaced with the directors of the organisations then there is no savings, however, then it would be an additional cost because when their mandate expires they remain in the service and some other government or the same government can come to their place for 4 years. Therefore, it simply does not stand, but wanting to fully support the government's intention to depolitise the state service in the second reading, I will submit an amendment that only those in the state service can be appointed to the director's posts for 10 years. This would be a depolitisation because in this case, really, if we were to talk about the best civil servants to manage in the ministry's systems, then it would be logical for it to be after a longer career in the state service, let's say for 10 years, because, for example, the chief of the sector is a condition for 4 years, so if the government would accept it, then our doubts about the desire to re-politise would still decrease, I must admit that this would indeed go on the trail of a certain depoliticalisation because I'm not sure that any government would deny the right to appoint its people at the head of the administration organisations in the frameworks of the ministry and leave it to one system that has been formed back 10 years, but if this government had done so, it should certainly be appreciated by the assistant ministers. On the Chief State Inspector and on the reorganisation of the State Inspectorate, I heard in a replica of the State Secretary that a mistake was made in 2014 and that these inspections did not work. I know that in 2015 it probably worked and after that it may not have been, but it is the problem of the ministers who run the system and not the officers who will do the same work under the same laws or in the State Inspectorate or in the ministries, I would still put it only on the organisational aspect because the laws they have to implement do not depend, therefore, on which institution they are in. As regards Article 1 The law on the rights of state officials, so they are the President of the Republic, the President and the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the President and members of the Government of the Republic, the President and the Vice-President and the Judges of the Constitutional Court, and in point 6 of the President, vice-presidents and members of the DIP of the Republic of Croatia. So, speaking of the Law on State officials who are also members of the DIP of the Republic of Croatia, since today a vote on one of the DIP members is foreseen, then there is something to be said about how they are appointed by officials and in general, so the President of the Republic is elected by the people, MPs in the Parliament are elected by the people, members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia elects the Parliament, Constitutional Judges elects the Parliament and members of the DIP also elects the Parliament. They have certain conditions under which they could be elected, so let's say the judges of the Constitutional Court must be 15 years old, 15 years of working on similar jobs, MPs have nothing to do, they are enough to elect the members of the DIP to elect the parliament from the legal order, three on the proposal of opposition parties, three on the proposal of the ruling parties, and then it happened to us that one ruling party, specifically HDZ, would propose its fourth representative, because 2015, as we know, HDZ has proposed three members of the DIP, are Mr Vresk, Mrs. Vresk. Lovrin and Mr. Tomljanović and now they want to sell us that Mr. Vresk is actually a proposal from HSS but in 2015 HSS couldn't even suggest a member of the DIP because he didn't have a club, he was a Croatian himself. So this story about someone suggesting to the HSS doesn't stand. I'm talking about officials, it's the Law on the Rights of State Officials, I've listed it all, so I wouldn't want to leave my DIP colleagues out of it. Well, in order not to violate the Law on the Rights of State Officials, I call on the President of the Parliament to postpone the vote on that point when this afternoon, if it does not delay, I declare a constitutional suit on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138311	Now it's the club of independent representatives and respected colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138312	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This bill could be valued with three aspects. Before anyone would be the very functionality of the state administration and what the Government, I personally think, has the right to do, and that is to do everything in order for its administration, its ministries, their detour and their work to be as effective as possible. After all, and because of the basic function, which is the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I have no grudges here. The government really needs to make a functional state administration, and in this sense it also proposes this legislative proposal to which it seeks to do so. However, it must not be forgotten that the principle of transparency, the principles that allow citizens to see in the area and the work of these state bodies and ultimately enable the equal position of all citizens, and in this sense the depolitisation, quoted by Minister Kuscevic, is extremely important. Now, we can look at this bill, evaluate it from the point of view of civil servants, so all those in the system. Starting with their education, their employment, their payments, rewards for their work and their progress. And in that sense, some of the provisions of this amendment to these rights of state officials, the amendments to the next law are in some way questionable. And thirdly, we can evaluate this bill from the public's point of view. So, what citizens expect from the state administration, an efficient, modern public administration that will enable or respond to all the demands that modern society represents under such a state administration because it is justified in law, it is justified to set up a gap between public administration and the private sector and it is considered that public administration employees are less valuable or less working than private sector employees or so on. the real sector. However, the truth and the fact is that all government employees work on the basis of those powers, based on those regulations, based on the structure that the ministry has established for them. So I can't do better and more work if the system itself isn't good. As regards the Chief State Inspector, it is said very much, here is the basic observation that this law has been delayed because it does say in the light of the law that, since it did not enter the State Inspectorate Act on 1 April of the year and the coefficient for the calculation of the salary of the Chief State Inspector, which is determined by this bill, it is necessary to ensure as soon as possible to enable payment of the salary to the Chief State Inspector. Indeed, I'm always about to take care of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, so well as the chief state inspector, that a man really gets paid, but bring himself into this situation to me in HS to write it... Law, that's not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the proposal for the appointment of the Chief Fire Commander, i.e. it is now becoming a government official, given the adopted Law on the formation and division of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, and the Croatian Fire Department is included in that list, and accordingly, both these amendments and the chief fire chief becomes a state official. We must not forget the fact, a colleague here, explaining this legislative proposal on behalf of the HDZ Club, said this is a really important shift, but we must not forget the fact that there are 1700 fire companies in Croatia. 200 fire-fighting communities of municipalities and 20 fire-fighting communities of counties and 60 voluntary fire-fighting companies in the economy. All of them are members of the Croatian Fire Department both at this time and if I would like to welcome this status as chief fire chief as Secretary of State, I cannot do so until we see a proposal for the Croatian Fire Department that should be passed. But from this point of view, this intensity is good to put Croatian firepower in the frames that are needed, so that the Croatian fire commander is in the rank of the secretary of state. And what is most important in this law is that the secretary of state specifically explained, therefore, is the term of the principal director, in order to separate himself from the director of the administration within the ministries, in order to determine then and the height of the salary, by making the chief directors of the administration appointed by the government, and the directors within the ministry become public officials also appointed by the government, and indeed encouraging the experience of the past, we really believe that what has already happened can happen, so that the assistant ministers only form of competition are converted from state officials to state officials, which is ultimately in their interest, to say so, I like this proposal from my fellow Bauka, which will propose that the amendments be made for 10 years because they ask a basic question. What kind of official wants to advance on his professional path wants to achieve better results which will be bold to report to this post as an official, but in time of 4 g. So, the intensity here wanted to show itself, which is the depoliticalization of the administration system, is not the best solution, and I think that instead of depoliticalization, we're going to get the politicization of people who are once again and again and in one way or another dependent on politics and are related to the very narrow work of the ministry, that is, the minister and his secretary of state, but there will be more words in the next draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138313	Now it is the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU and respected representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138314	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, in fact, I must say, have offered me this debate, otherwise this is a very obvious and brief law, an attempt to, in my opinion, misrepresent this entire operation with ministerial assistants. The fact that this law is often changed, I don't think it's strange, and it doesn't need to be surprised at how it's appropriate to regulate this matter to the laws, but it's not a question for this debate now because, of course, every government in some way wants to allow itself to function normally, and at the same time avoid this situation that's going to happen to us here, and that's that people who have come to a limited mandate are de facto turned into permanent employees or turned into people who are more from these places or other places, they don't leave, they leave. It is also necessary that certain things are simply regulated by law, since this government and the parliamentary majority have decided to re-establish a single State Inspectorate, it is logical that the head of this should be the chief state inspector, I am not entering other issues related to the chief state inspector, but institutionally I think that it is logical, the chief fire commander, I don't understand much about this matter, I won't comment at all, but I suppose there is logic. However, the assistants would really like to say something about this because it is either a savings or a big move. This is one promise made by Prime Minister Plenkovic here at the beginning of a term that was not executed, but only now after two and a half years of office, so in the second part of the third year of office because the assistants were defacto institutions of assistants and the institution of one deputy minister was defacto replaced by state secretaries and state secretaries, he was no longer one state secretary as one deputy minister, but a defacto state secretary was acquired by the ministries according to the criteria under which the assistants were once appointed. And Prime Minister Plenkovic said at the beginning of the term here, it will not be duplicated, we will remove the assistants and that is why we can set up a number of state secretaries because the assistants will be abolished. And if there was an extra cost somewhere, it came from that duplication, which these assistants didn't cancel, two and a half years or just over two and a half years of mandate, and they're only now on the agenda, and it's logical to cancel because their function, mission, job, whatever you want, are number, has been taken over by the secretary of state. However, this is simply about renaming and perhaps even a useful renaming because this State Department is something that has an internationally common denominator, but it's not any new function or new description or scope of business, it's simply jobs that are combined by these assistants and one deputy minister before, and in fact we've been living in a situation where we had two levels that were supposed to do the same job and didn't know exactly who was doing what. So we had state secretaries who did the work of assistants and assistants who did God knows what, whether they were doing these jobs to the director and what is being attributed to them here or being prepared in accordance with this law. So, as far as the assistant is concerned, it's a defacto with a great delay in fulfilling one of the obligations that has been made here by the prime minister in front of this HS, that it will not be duplicated, and therefore it's possible that either it was an excuse to say that not just one secretary of state, but a mass of state secretaries, so in some ministries a lot, in some 3, 4, different from the ministry to the ministry, but these are the functions that have been duplicated here, and so now the assistants are going out. However, the assistants go out in an unusual way, which is that they turn from October to permanent or Montenegrin, as they say. So, they have been elected to the mandate so far, therefore, they were assumed to leave with each government, and from now on they will move to a permanent state service. I hope that some of these people, indeed, will be really improving this state service, but there really should be some criteria introduced by some criteria, yet these people are selected now, when they are de facto, received into a permanent and permanent state service. There's even an argument, that it's usually the assistant's place and people were putting themselves, which are, let's say, better quality, but the paints were put on, of course, by people who are more alike. So in this transformation, their transformation from assistants, therefore, people in office who are temporarily, to, for which there are also reasons. There are reasons why some people should work in ministries temporarily, that is, at mandates and not permanently and forever, but now that these assistants are pretending to de facto from those who should go at the end of the term to those who will remain forever, the minimum would be to define clear criteria by which they will be evaluated, by which they will be selected and based which will then become permanent rather than just a temporary part of the state administration. But their abolition, therefore, has nothing to do with the long-term savings, has nothing to do with saving these 2.5 years when you had the duplication of state secretaries and assistants. Before the secretary of state was gone, there was only one deputy minister, there was no duplication, so there was no cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138315	Now there are individual debates, the first colleague is Pernar, he is gone, he loses his right of speech, the second, his colleague Grmoja, he has no speech, he loses his third colleague Stazic, he has no speech, he has no speech, he has no speech, he has no colleagues Bačić, he loses his right of speech, he loses his speech, his colleague Maras loses his right of speech, but that's why Ivan Šuker is here, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138316	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, many colleagues and colleagues. Maybe today in this debate, everyone's missing a little bit, to be honest, everyone's been having a little discussion with the handbrake about this law. Why? Because a programme of economic recovery was adopted in 2010, where, among other things, a reform of the state administration and depoliticalisation and the professionalisation of the state administration was envisaged. The programme was attended by people, independent, experts and received quite good grades, however, from the European Commission and was implemented. Not only have the assistants been converted through a public tender to the principal, because look, when you have a public tender, then anyone can participate in a public competition and can complain about that public competition. And when you have an assistant minister, no complaints, it's a political decision and that's it. So that's the story of depoliticalism. The second thing that was done parallel to that was that in the supervisory boards and administrations of state-owned companies, the same people were chosen through a public tender. And that was the first step and the logical thing was, that after that, that process was being upgraded. However, what happens after the 2012 elections? Someone didn't like it because they couldn't change the head of the management bodies by the ministries and they just went through this historic sentence, we adopted power, we're responsible, we're going to name people. All directors are confused, re-appointed assistants, who are political officials. Now the question is, when we're here to criticize the state administration, then it's... Disdainful, and when we need to find a model and a way to form that state administration, that's where we argue with the fig in our pocket. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For now these are in power, they will appoint their people, and when we come to power, we will not come to replace them. That is the basic problem of this debate, today being debated. But can we, as Parliamentarians, even argue in such a way? I don't think so. When we are discussing these laws, we should discuss in this direction, how we think and think, and we should not agree on it, that this state administration is effective, that it is at the service of Croatian citizens and at the end of the day, that these laws, which we bring to the Croatian Parliament, are implemented in the best way possible, and that, in fact, they send us feedback, if something in that, in the provisions of that law, is wrong in its application, then it should make changes. And so little Ivica imagines that this state administration should function. Shall we take a look at the State Inspectorate? Look, you've got one man in charge, and he's got all the inspections in front of him. And then the ministers, they realize they don't have enough power, let's dig up that... The State Inspectorate and let's put it under your hat, what's mine and it will certainly work better, the minister is a political, well-established member of the political party and now you can think, he will not act politically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they have distributed one body to some 10, 15 body structures, and the one that is now principled, one will act politically. The same story you had with the closure of the financial police, the exact same story. Just because one political option set it up, another one didn't say, let's look at the results, that in 2002, when the state budget, along with the funds, was somewhere around 60 billion, each year determined 2 billion of some incomes, which were in some gray zone, no one was interested. But they're all the same way... Now colleagues and colleagues around these directors will be more debates in this other body, but since all the discussions are, in fact, in the second law, since all the discussions went in this direction, simply some of the substances should be cleared up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why didn't whoever abolished the State Inspectorate from the Law on the Rights of State actually overwrite the Chief State Inspector? Actually, Chief Inspector of the State Inspectorate, if he's already lifted it. Because you look into the law, it still stands for that official. So, we who once established the State Inspectorate long ago is what fellow Jordanic says he was all but not right, he was an extremely professional and capable man who set up that inspectorate, so it is not true that it was viewed by party belonging to who he belonged to, but also the other day in the debate on the Law on State Servants and today in this law and the next law unfortunately the fig in his pocket. But when we talk about this thing the figs in your pocket shouldn't be for the simple reason the state administration is something every citizen first feels whether the state works or doesn't work. 'Cause look when someone comes in and asks for any paper or we say a piece of paper to him it's at that point the most important thing in the world. Someone seems benign, and how he will be treated by that civil servant or deputy actually an official because the tenants are the ones who do the technical work, he will thus assess how the government and everything else works, and he will do so primarily at that time. However, we today and even some colleagues and colleagues who were ministers the moment this provision on directors was lifted tell the story in their own way. And if we were going by logic OK this is changed let's see how it works, this isn't good for us let's change it but let's upgrade the system, I guarantee you that everyone today would have a far better system than we have. And they wouldn't call themselves this way. But when you come in and then you change it just like this, then it's not good, without any critical discussions or anything. So, I consider that according to all this and to what's going on and the formation of the State Inspectorate and the State Inspector that it will work better. And I finally left something to talk about here today, which is the community of fire, the chief fire commander and everything. Firefighting is debated in this high house when the budget is passed and when such laws are passed, fire is not discussed when, unfortunately, the fires occur in the summer and the disasters happen as they occur. It's simply something that must work at the same moment and the command line must be clear and must be known. And so maybe it's good that in this way this trauma where the firemen are going to be, and it's going to be in the MUP, and it's going to be in the Department of Protection and Rescue, and it's going to be here, and it's going to appoint this one, and it's going to be the one to finally put it in one place, and it's going to be the starting point for the fire department, and it's going to work better. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues in this debate will be at the next item of the agenda, I think these changes should be supported and monitored and see if the State Inspectorate works the way we said it here when we were just discussing the law to be first educational to be on the hands of entrepreneurs, and then only to punish them. At the same time, I am very interested in whether this year we will be controlling those who do not have a license to rent rooms, as we have given opportunities in the law that has been said so far, because it is simply not possible for someone in Ljubljana, Kranj, Budapest or elsewhere to change apartments only for renting apartments, not paying taxes and something I think the State Inspectorate that covers this area can come, can determine who is inside, whether it is registered or not. If that happens then we can say that with these changes we have succeeded if we don't have to find a way to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138317	Comrade Shuker, I'm asking you to stop. My colleague Maras would ask you to lower your promotional material, I have received information from the DIP that this is contrary to the Finance Act and you will immediately do so and you will be notified to the DIP. Is that what you want? Okay. Please sit down. You can't explain. You can't explain. Of course I am... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll interrupt the session now, interrupt the session... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We interrupt the assembly session, I'll report you to the DIP right now and please sit down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll be back to work in 10 minutes. [[It's 10:00.45.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.55 HOURS]] Comrade Shucker, here you go, keep going, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I didn't mean to end up like this, but like some people had a chance to depolitize and professionalize the state administration, so they had a chance to build a Peljek Bridge, so they would take pictures, and then they could talk anyway. They didn't do it, we did it, listen, jealousy is one big disease, but what can we do, it's over, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138320	My colleague Beljak is not here, so he can't replicate, my colleague Boris is second. ... You want to replicate? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Come on, then, we'll be waiting for you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138321	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for waiting for me. Mr. Shuker, I'm a little bit surprised, but with the seed, nostalgia this statement of yours about the 2010 recovery programme, so from nearly 10 years ago I remember how Croatia looked in 2009, 2010, it was a country full of hope, full of optimism, we were preparing for entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, we had some future, some perspective, no matter who was in power, I'm just wondering how the state seemed that there was no such recovery program from this present perspective 10 years after that, I don't think we should't have had any recovery program, nor did any recovery occur, we sank in all segments and depolitisation and what you were saying about...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138322	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138323	I like to talk to numbers in life, the economic recovery programme was adopted in 2010, a halted economic downturn, completed with zero. The political nomenclature comes, it stops with the economic recovery programme, in 2012, the economic downturn 1.7%, and when we talk about the depoliticalization and professionalization of the state administration, I'm surprised, you as a successful mayor, so it's probably in your interest that that office of the state administration with which you basically have nothing and that's what might not be good in this entire system, because citizens when they come to the office of the state administration and you as mayor assess you, but they don't know who they belong to, and that's why I think it would be for you as a mayor who doesn't belong to a political option that is currently in power, in particular in the interest that this state administration works well. Because I'm saying, citizens through it judge you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138324	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138325	Article 236 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Schucker, spoke of various terms, state and local administrations. I guarantee Mr. Schucker, and you know it yourself, that 99% of the people, the residents, don't make any difference at all, and when he goes to the state administration's office, I think that's where the mayor is. Well, that's a bad system. ... It's a bad system. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder President: Comrade Shucker, please.]] It can't be a good system. So, you have a situation where people ask that the city or mayor, the city administration is doing something that is not at all in power and I think it's just a crazy system that's not well-conceived. [[Intruder President: Comrade Shucker, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138326	Comrade Whiteman, time's up. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was a replica, so you get a warning, I think it's very clear and logical. ... I judge and you can appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I've been President of Parliament elected since 76 and who are you to ask me such questions at all? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138327	Thank you very much. We are going back to the assistant ministers and what we are looking for means that we are now going back to where we were in 2009 and 2010, so we don't think this is the first time we've done it, HDZ has already done it once, so then we've already abolished the roles or duties of ministerial assistants and launched our first public competitions and in 2009, 2010 we got the first directors of management because we wanted and then we already had a professional public administration and all of this lasted until 2011, then SDP came with its coalition and apparently unable to agree on the wishes of all 6.7 parties as much as it was in the government, they simply resorted to that simplest solution again and increased the number of officials through the appointment of ministerial assistants. We remember very much here, fought against that happening, but they insisted and said it was normal for them to have 3 levels of command practically within one ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138328	Thanks, buddy. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138329	Yes, colleague Boric, this is what we're supposed to do here today all day long. So this is the second attempt by the HDZ and those who support HDZ in this government to depolitize and professionalise the state administration and finally to keep the state administration out of something, subject to some sad debate, rather than to say that they are good. But when you have to satisfy a lot of petites, and you can't do that because you can't take some guys in a public competition who just don't satisfy it, then the simplest thing is to say, no, we won't, we're here with politics, we'll come because there wasn't just the appointment of an assistant, so you remember how many counselors there were appointed, how many in the various ministries of counselors people were dragged in, over 10, 15 000 people were employed but what, no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138330	Now it's time for fellow Djakic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Shuker, you have well defined that the state administration as an inspectorate, that they are devastated by the arrival of the coalition government, that there was a small bar full of crocodiles, let's print those who are not professional, nor are they any sort of, important that they are politically committed so today I believe that the directors will be the ones who will have their profession, their career, who will have references to their activity. Likewise, the State Inspectorate, which will be able to act preventively above all, and in only the worst cases, repressively with experts who will not be influenced by ministers, state secretaries, assistants, parties of these or those, but do their job responsibly, professionally and for the purpose of economic development and economic progress. So far, there's been a real inflation of officials at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138332	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138333	Thank you very much. Col. Djakić, I fully agree with you, and instead of discussing today and Tuesday how to start an administrative academy or something like that for the education of people working in the administration, that the former tax study that was in agreement with the tax administration and the ministry, in fact the Faculty of Economics and Legal is back for education, that the Judicial Academy is activated and that we educate and appoint these people, what are we discussing? We're defending our attitude as if we'd be calling someone politically and... explain this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, we tell them, we don't agree with that in HDZ, we want professionalization, depolitisation, we want to educate civil servants, and when we give them all the preconditions, then we can call them out to them why they don't work well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138334	And colleague Ante Babic, final replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138335	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Shuker, it's fascinating to me that you have this institutional memory and remember, in fact, to the tiny details of certain things that were during the Kukuriku coalition, and I believe that this opinion is shared by the vast majority of our colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament, and it reminded me of something when the State Inspectorate was lifted, then these inspections were attached to the ministries and then it was said that it would not have to build facades on the building of the county of too many of those tables and the inscriptions on the tables of various inspections on the county buildings, and then it didn't bother the Kukurik coalition, it wasn't any political influence of the ministers, today when the State Inspectorate was formed, when all these inspections were united, it was their problem. I don't understand those double standards, here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138336	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138337	How can you not understand what the inspection is doing? He's checking out how to enforce the law. Who's proposing the law? Minister. So if he missed by law then his inspection will cover it up but if a man from the State Inspectorate who is independent of him comes, he will realize that it is not good and that law should come then for repair to the Croatian Parliament. So I'm thinking that the State Inspectorate works in such a way, but the gentlemen who then abolished the State Inspectorate, they grabbed inspection services because they wanted to be callifs at the Caliph site, they wanted to have an extended hand on the ground, and it's a real political attempt of political influence for inspection because the ministers who were appointed to ministerial functions can't really act on so many people, but when you have such a segmental but very interesting that with in this House unfortunately very successful sometimes they try to twist the thesis and show that something that's really better or worse and what's worse... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138338	Time, sir, time. The closing statement will now be given to the Secretary of State, Mr Darko Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138339	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I welcome you. Well, here's what I think my colleague, Sagar, mentioned a very important fact, so the government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure the functionality of the state administration, and that's where we agree. What I can't agree on is some of the debates that I'm going to single out here, mostly on the ministerial assistant issues and the savings issues that I've been talking about. So I never said in any sentence that the savings would come in a way that would save the salaries that the ministerial assistants had, or that would have future directors of the administration, meaning those savings in the amount of 10 million kuna as we calculated, will be achieved precisely on those rights that these state officials and 96 assistants had and were paid to them. So let's get that fact straight. As for the law and the amendment very often of this law if you have carefully looked at it since '98. In the term of this government, there was only one amendment and the Ministry of Administration is already working on a new whole law, of course it will depend on both the Government and the Parliament when the law comes into debate. What I would like to say at the end, here, indeed, was both constructive and unstructured proposals and debates, thanks to all those who have made all these constructive remarks, we will, given that this is the first reading, study well all that we get, what you orally say and what we get in writing, all in order to ultimately make the law as good as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138340	Thank you very much. Yes, yes, I've seen it, but first it's Mrs. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138341	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, what you said is true, that there will be no savings from this government, but it is important to say that 2.5 years ago this government actually has two types of officials in very similar jobs and these are assistant ministers and state secretary. For 2 years, Croatian citizens pay an average salary of each of them, about 13,14,000 kuna. Not to mention, at one point, the Ministry of Science and Education had 10 officials. It means when we add up the minister, the assistants and the secretary of state. When you compare it to a government from before, it's twice as much, it's a shame, so it's a good thing you don't use the word "saving" and don't use it because the only thing this government has done for the budget and the Croatian citizens has done is to spend her pardons on state officials, on two different types of government officials for the same kind of jobs that only one has done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138342	Thank you very much. Before we answer, Mr. Maras knows what he's doing, right? And as you know, Mr. Maras, there's a DIP decision... opinion, yes. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay, I'm warning you that until you have the answer that you, 10 minutes is a break. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you very much, no, 10 minutes break, 10 minutes break. It's 11:10 p.m. Can we go on, can we move on, can we move on? [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.20 HOURS]] So, before Mr. Marasu, because contrary to the opinion of the DIP that propaganda materials should not be exhibited, is that, during the course of the HS session and because this leads to a situation that is not equal and other articles and its lists, and even other lists, I have given a warning before, I will now, I have made a note of the article. In 239, which says, don't knock, I have something else to say, so, based on art. The 239th legislator will be given a warning if he does otherwise. 238 of this Rules of Procedure, In 238 of this Rules of Procedure, the MP must not behave, he must not deviate from the general rules of conduct in HS. I'll tell you what I'm going to do now, Mr. Maras, so you can choose at the end which version you choose. First I'll give you a warning, then I'll give you a second warning, then I'll take your word and if you insist, then I'll give you a double distance from the session. And now you can say what you're going to say, that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You can't do that all of a sudden, you know that you have to have a few leads. The second thing, this is scandalous, HDZ is trying in every way possible to enable people to represent their voters in HS, and I ask the entire Croatian public to see what is bothering HDZ. It bothers him on my laptop my sticker, I didn't break the law of the Republic of Croatia, I don't break the laws of the Republic of Croatia, the opinion given by the DIP is not binding. It must make a decision which I then have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court, which I will do. Mr. Jandrokovic ran...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138345	.../Intruder: Thank you, 12, 12 seconds you've spoken too much.../
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138346	Here from the assembly to report me, to report to the DIP, I beg you...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138347	Is it [[Intruder: Would you like another reminder?]] [[Intruder: Would you like another reminder for the sake of time?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138348	...but this wasn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138349	.../Intruder: You want a second warning?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138350	...infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I just want to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138351	.../Intruder: You have a second warning, please take a six, two reminders/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138352	/... I can get back to you. on behalf of the club [[I'll do it one more time...]] On behalf of the club, I'm calling. [[I'll do it one more time...]] [[I'll do it one more time...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138353	...read, by the time it's over, let this debate be over first. Let this debate come to an end here on this subject, and then after that we will go on and you will seek or demand those who will have the right to do so, will demand a break or something else, whatever they want. The opinion of the DIP, and you know what, we've been in this HS a lot of times in this HS, we've said in this HS that in laws we can't take it out that some law doesn't have certain monetary consequences that if it breaks this article, you're going to have to make so much and so much, but if something is written in the law, then that, then it has to be respected. The opinion of the DIP should also be respected, it is a relationship to institutions, it should be respected. The opinion is this, the DIP is of the opinion that the emphasis on promotional messages and slogans in the Assembly during the election promotion is contrary to the above-mentioned provision of the Finance Act for which the infringement is prescribed administrative sanctions, total loss of the cost of election promotion, Article. The 37th century 2. The financing law and what the DIP will take into account in the implementation of the monitoring of electoral promotion. We had a brief understanding of the views of the president of HS, we heard from Mr. Maras, the president of your club representative, and I'm obliged to just tell you that it would be much better if we cut this thing off and you were in the same position with other agents, and Mr. Beljak, if you want to make a circus, do it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138354	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, you gave me your word, I don't intend to do the circus, I'm in HS, it's not a circus.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138355	I'm so glad you're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138356	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Assembly Representatives Club of the HSS to give me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138357	You can't because it's not the agenda, it's not the agenda point, it's not the point... It's a controversy, it's not a agenda item, and a break can be sought, except for the one in one hour, can only be sought on the agenda point. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's go, I'm sorry, on the agenda item... [[Intruder Beljak: It is about Mr. Vice President.]] is not part of the agenda. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138358	I really didn't mean to do the circus, now you're challenging me to make a circus, so don't do it. I was thinking of supporting you, you should end everyone's promotion, I mean really, HDZ should have every day and public television and everything. It's not a circus. [[I knew there'd be a circus.]] I agree that Maras needs to be banned. And it irritates me, really, we need to get rid of the competition, best if HDZ alone has a national promotion, on public television, on the radio, and everyone else to shut your mouth, here, that's the best way. So I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138359	Mr. Whitey, you weren't here until I read that, and I'm very pleased to see you. that you have nothing in front of you, which shows that you want to be equal with others. .../Intruder Beljak: I'm afraid, I'm not afraid, we can't be equal while HDZ holds a monopoly... [[I'm listening to you very well.]] You understand... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They left your relationship with HDZ to... /Stupid Beljak: Mrs. Shuica had an hour of promiscuous... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Free on HTV... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] /... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Make a deal, okay, now I have to interrupt you, make a deal with HDZ on relations with HDZ We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you asked for a break, you don't have the right to a break, I'd give you three breaks but you don't have the right [[Beljak: We can't agree with them, don't be angry, you made a deal with them, you know how hard it is to negotiate with them.]] Mr. Grumoya, here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, an article? [[Intruder Whitey: OK, so can now and again pause?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138360	Dearly injured means an article concerning the authority of the chairman, that's art. 33. means where you, as chairman, need to worry about the protection of rights and the fulfilment of the duties of MPs. So, what's this all about? You referred to Article 238. I disagree with that, that the MP now, if the DIP said so, if the opinion of the DIP I think should respect the opinion of the DIP, but has not been broken by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because fellow Maras does not by his behaviour differ from the usual behaviour and that article you called upon, because until a few days ago he also had this bracelet on his laptop So let the DIP punish his colleague, Maras, and the Rules of Procedure are not injured. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, it's been a while, Mr. Grmoya, nice, it's been a while.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138361	How many times do I have to tell you nicely? It's past your time, 27 seconds and now you have a warning, now. Yes, you have a warning now, because you continued the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138362	238, here I am interested, may I have a chemical Croatian modernist or will you report me to the DIP to get her away in time? So, this chemical writing of Croatian modernity, I have no alternative in common, whether I can have it on the table or I have to put it away,... The question and to take a look here, too, a colleague has a HDZ chemical, too, if that fits, I think the DIP will sue us or not, so that we can get her out of the way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, just one little question, so Croatian modernity, so here, here, I'll put it away if I can't have it on the table. But please tell your colleagues that... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138363	If I noticed correctly, you didn't call on the article, did you? Yeah, 238, 239, which 33? [[/Intruder Zekanovic: Yes, I did.]] Okay, I hope the cameras shot you with a pen. [[/Intruding Zekanovic: 238, 238, yes.]] Let's move on, let's move on. I would ask you fellow Maras to do so until, unfortunately, my regrets, but rightly so, the President of the Croatian Parliament had to sue both you and the party. I know exactly, that the break will say, don't blame the chairman for not keeping Mr. Maras away. Then it's not our fault, it's his blood. So I'll be forced, now, next time I take your word and then I'll take you away. If you don't want to go outside, we'll take a break, so you'll do your show. It's not my fault if it's pre-election time and pre-election time... In pre-election times, like during the sale, is it that, in the case of Tis and other animals, when they go mad and politicians go crazy during the pre-election period, they also have inappropriate behaviours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have inappropriate behavior at the moment. Here your colleagues who are also on the list, have no propaganda, colleagues from the Amsterdam Coalition have no propaganda at all, bridge colleagues have no propaganda whatsoever. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And look at you knocking on the open door, I know you can write, I know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I assumed you could write if you were in Parliament, I assumed and you didn't surprise me with your pens, it's your right to have pens and I'm telling you, if you have to write something good it's that you have a pen. But something like that, I'll be forced to do it, because it says so, and otherwise sue yourself in the DIP, yes, because of the pen. If he won't be sued by anyone else, sue yourself. I will no longer argue, please, yes, but first I want to take away your word, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And after that, you know what comes next, and then you do what you want, in the end we'll all survive, that, there, to say the surrealist controversy, Mrs. Here's the voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138364	Oh, well, thank you very much, Mr. President. This has never been seen before in the Croatian Parliament. I agree, Article 238, and Article 33. I agree that we should follow the same rules, too, and it's quite clear that no rules of procedure have been broken here. The DIP has given some opinion, however, I ask you, will the distance of fellow Maras from today's session, and the remaining of this laptop here contribute to the same rules for all? What happens tomorrow, when the entire Parliament comes with prom pens, when they come with badges, when they come with T-shirts, will the guard get a warrant to search for counsel? DL someone has a undershirt on which there's some slogan where you could show it at a moment's notice? Well, I think so. [[I'm sorry, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138365	If they are, I will give you, you have expressed your opinion, here will be the relevant opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and not mine, and my opinion is the following if someone comes to the assembly with big labels, labels like T-shirts, if someone has a pen and let them write their notes, is that, who ever recorded, who ever recorded the pen logo yes. Maybe if I had an HSS pen, which I know is that, I think who would know it, some time you gave me some pen I could have had here. But if that's enough to be propaganda, she's in violation of the DIP's opinion, please hold on to the DIP's opinion to go to the polls, hold on to the DIP's opinion. Thank you very much for your exhibitionism. Uh, what am I supposed to do with that? What am I supposed to do with it, buddy? ... Who, who? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll give it to someone who needs it, though I don't know one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm now at this point about this, about this problem I'm closing the debate and once again I'm asking Mr. Maras to close that, they've all already seen him, to close that laptop,... But you do realize that, but you realize that you're falling out. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look, please step away. Don't. [[I don't want to make people uncomfortable, but you're wrong, you're wrong.]] do not pollemize [[I'll get out of the assembly.]] Don't pollemize with me, but otherwise civilized people say I disagree with you, no you're wrong. [[You don't have to call the guards.]] You didn't know that yet? You need to learn more. Let's move on, there's still replicas. Who, and say Mr. Nejdić. [[Intruder: Replication response.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138366	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, unfortunately I must conclude that the distinguished representative did not listen at all to what I was saying. So, I never said that no savings will be made by the ministerial assistants being directors of the administration, I said that no savings will be made out of salaries because the salaries are about the same, but that the savings will come from 10 million kuna per year because the assistant ministers who were officials, i.e. the new directors of the administration will no longer have those debt rights. So I don't know how you figured out that I said there wouldn't be any savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138367	Thank you, too, where we were before the polemics, sir, and we have replicas. I'm already in the middle of the controversy. Mr. Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138368	Thank you, Vice President. It's kind of time-consuming, so, man, forget what he's trying to say. I'm going to try what was essentially a debate, so these legal proposals, and when you talk about the whole reform, you're moving the border towards politicizing up. Well, the state official is, state officials are no longer ministerial assistants they will become officials who will be elected in a public competition and now one problem. We now have these ministerial assistants, if most of them, when I say most of them, means over 90% of the assistants become employees, then it is not that goal, then the simple goal is to further strengthen politicisation, strengthen nepotism, strengthen everything you stand for, but if government officials are allowed what counterpart Bauk announced as, as this amendment, that they are progressing, that they achieve a certain greater function by their work, then that is the meaning of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138369	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138370	Thank you, so I am not a prophet so that I may know if any civil servants will report to the competitions that we will call. So after this law has been passed, and after it has entered into force as set out in 1.6, there is a big deal ahead of us about the regulation, amending regulations by the ministries, regulations and everything else, so I expect that public tenders will be opened sometime in the 10th month, and everyone can report that kind of competition, so that they can't agree on what you say is a repeat politicisation, on the contrary, and I think that in the previous debate, too, Shucker explained it very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138371	Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138372	I thank Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, I expect that when you propose this law as a final proposal in the second reading that you explain to us exactly how many state officials we have under this law, and the public, media representatives, are to concentrate when one day these ministerial assistants cease their duties, when they stop all the rights that they have under the law where they will actually end after that. Will he be taken care of in other positions, will he be in some other state bodies, or will he simply not be taken care of without a job? It would be interesting to see where 100 politicians who are now ministerial assistants will end up, it would be an interesting study for the public and for the media, to see what will actually happen if they return to their earlier jobs where they are. where they've been or will be taken care of as they normally do. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Dolnjak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138373	Thank you, Mr. Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138374	I thank you again for asking me to be a prophet, so right now we don't even know how many current ministerial assistants are going to report to a contest that will be called, I don't know, at the 9th or 10th month. Only when we see how many will report to the competition or when we see how many there will be and become directors of the administration will I be able to answer your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138375	Thank you and Mr. Shucker at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138376	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, the biggest problem that MPs here simply do not want to hear that this is a process that is already happening once, so we are 2010/2011. Called public tender, assistants renamed directors, everyone had a chance to report to the competition. And we all know if you're involved in a competition, if you're dissatisfied and you feel that the conditions of the competition or your right to complain about the competition have been violated. But if there's a political appointment, then you don't have it. So also today is the time when you simply can't hide anything, everything will leak out. So the question is whether someone will expose themselves to a political risk to appoint people like this who don't meet the conditions. But the key question is, and that's what we don't want to discuss is whether we really, from the heart want to depolitize and professionalise the state administration. And that's the key question. And we need to answer it without a fig in our pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138377	Thank you, thank you. Thank you all for the discussion I'm having. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138378	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, First Reading, P.Z. No. 618. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State, and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them, when setting out the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 32 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138379	Next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the system of state administration, first reading, P.Z. No. 617; I apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law. They discussed the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the Secretary of State Mr. Darko Neklic like to take his word again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this is actually the most important law of this package that we represent this week. Proposal for a law, a brand-new law on the system of state administration. This new Law on the State Administration System allows for the implementation of the following reform measures. First, depolitisation and further professionalization of public administration. Second, decentralisation or the approach of the administration to citizens. And thirdly, digitization, the introduction of a single management post that I'm going to say a little bit more about later. As one of the key innovations in the new Law on the State Administration System is the one relating to the implementation of the Government of the mandate from 2016 to 2020 in the section relating to depoliticalisation and further professionalisation of the state administration. For this reason, the proposal for a State Administration System Act provides that administrative organisations within the ministries will be managed by government officials or directors of the administration instead of the ministerial assistants who have the position of state officials. In this way, the number of government officials will be reduced, representing the professionalisation of the state administration and the significant savings in the state budget from the title means everything I have said before. Second, in meeting the reform requirements of decentralisation and rationalisation of the state administration, a new law in the state administration system provides for the provision of state administration services that have so far been carried out by public administration offices in the counties as first-degree bodies of state administration units of the regional self-government or county. In this way, it will enable even greater convergence of the business of the state administration to citizens as end-users of state administration services, taking into account that jobs that will be entrusted primarily to administrative areas of the economy, such as crafts, catering, tourism, trade and road transport, social activities, Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, sport, pre-school education, education, culture, and general administrations also means state queens, registers of voters and associations. B) are abolished, 20 state administration bodies are abolished or the total number of state administration bodies is reduced from 52 to 32. According to the law, the counties are expected to take over both officials and deputies of current state administration offices, thus reducing the number of civil servants and subsistence officers. Thirdly, it should also be pointed out that this law finally fully digitises the office's business or create preconditions for its digitisation and opens up the possibility of setting up certain body-building units and the establishment of public administration bodies as unique administrative places where citizens will be able to submit all the requirements which, under official duty and without delay, will be delivered to the relevant public legal authority and receive all prescribed forms, notices, advice and other assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138381	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. The first line was sought by Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138382	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Maybe there's a chance that you can answer us in the conference room. I asked the government six months ago to give me a written reply as many assistant ministers and state secretarys as there are at this point. And I couldn't get that answer, or the answer I got to go to the ministry's pages myself, so let me see it or I can get something else. After the repeated answer I'm about, the re-prime minister said let me ask myself, so let me see. When you spoke about this second law, you said that there are 96 assistants, which means 4.8, since 20 ministries of 4.8 assistants have one ministry. I'm sure you have as much information as there are State Secretarys, so this may be a chance to tell us how many assistants and state secretarys we have at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138383	Answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138384	Well, at this point, I can certainly give you the right answer as regards the assistant minister, as you yourself have stated, there are 96 of them, as is said in the proposal. Unfortunately, I don't have the number of secretary of state right now, but this is the first reading, so there's no reason why you don't get that number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138385	Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138386	... This law gives us certain jobs that are now at the state level towards the county. [[Specially enabled.]] However, we see two problems from the bill's proposal, first and foremost funding, insufficient funding for all those employees that the county will take over, and the cost that is now in the state budget to be passed on to the county. However, we know that it is insufficient and you predict doing so through transfers. Teached by experience when we have taken over to the county level of construction permits and the promised transfers have fallen behind after a year, we suggest that you and the Ministry of Finance find a different way i.e. to secure the original revenues of the county. And the other problem that is certainly a big one is the adoption of 30 laws that bring up the rest of the ministries and the problem is that of consistency and deadlines for all of this to be passed by 1.1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138387	Thank you, too. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138388	So, as far as your first question is concerned, The 67th century 4 is visible, so that the state itself will be taken over, so far we've established about 690, so the civil servants that are currently deployed in the public administration offices will meet the conditions of retirement between 2020 and 2025. So, a team of 690 civil servants will offer, so that the total number of employees that should be taken over by the county will not be 2507 as many as there are employees on today in, then, the Offices of the State Administration, but we are planning a significant fewer employees. So, by 15.12., all these 690 people who meet this time period will receive one letter offering stimulating severances, and that means automatically that the county cost should bit significantly smaller [[/Intruder: Mr. Neelix's time.]] Excuse me. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138389	It's the third one, Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138390	Thank you, Vice President HS. Secretary of State, I must say first of all, since this is presented as one of the most important reform laws of this government in the field of administration, I'm sorry that we don't have a minister here today because this is how I feel if you've already introduced as a government as an important law, then I suppose he should be here, and how important it is to the citizens themselves? So I'm going to say that citizens don't know at all, and they don't need to know which administration there's going to be something under which administration there's going to be services that are actually there to provide them with certain services. So, doing this kind of reform while we still don't have a fixed model of funding, not regional or local self-government, all the mayors, mayors and mayors know it well, we don't even have a clear consensus to put it that way, and we should at least... how much we really want and how much we can have unit local self-government is completely missed and that is one of the policies that the government obviously implements, or is now realising because it is nearing the end of the term of office. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138391	Thank you. The answer, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138392	As for Minister Kuščević, I have already explained, but you were not in the Assembly when I said, so these days unfortunately there are numerous and protocol activities, but also some other activities that the minister has today, therefore, could not have been in the Assembly, although he intended to come to the Assembly. As far as local and regional self-government is concerned, I don't know how familiar you are with it, but the Ministry of Administration began to implement a project of optimization of the local and regional and regional self-government systems for which 20 million kuna was provided from the ISF Fund. So, this project is being conducted for 24 months, and it's going to give guidance, so based on the database, based on an analysis of all the data, the guidance on what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138393	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138394	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, this system of Revencing Door could be called Revencing Meind. In fact, they used to suggest, the others attacked, now these others suggest, and the first attack. The fundamental difference, of course, is that you put that this will not be a special adviser and the administrative assistant will not be civil servants, but they will be accepted in service under the Labour Act, the minister will appoint them. You know that the fate of certain ministers is measured in months, so that provision is kind of strange to me, who would, despite the provisions of Article. The 47th century 6th, that they have the right to return to work, but who will be a counselor, he must know something even more from the minister, at least that's what I think in these particular areas. Who's going to interrupt his official internship that he's been a counselor, so that he'll come back again, and in that part, I don't think there's enough attention being paid to the system of advancement of the employees and education themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138395	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138396	Thank you. So, first of all, I wouldn't tie this to the Revising Door system at all, I'm sure you've read both the decision and the Constitutional Court's solution to this famous 74c article that was, therefore, abolished. We have found a solution, therefore, which I think meets all constitutional provisions and we can now depolize whether or not someone will answer, but we have found a solution to ensure the functionality of the entire system without being contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138397	Mr. Vlaović, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138398	Mr. Secretary of State, according to Art. In 47th of this bill, you predict that in offices, cabinets of ministers, the office of the Prime Minister and the president of HS will be able to receive a number of new persons who will actually come with ministers and leave with them at the end of the term of office. However, you say for those persons, they are not officials, they are not officials, they are persons, who are the new hybrid category of persons coming at the beginning of the mandate, leaving at the end of the term, you do not treat them as officials, nor as officials. Come on, please tell us what would you call that hybrid category of people who are neither, nor others, what category is that by your definition? What would you call them?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138399	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138400	Thank you. Well, it doesn't matter what I call them, it's important that these people do those jobs we predicted, right? And secondly, what's important is, there are some circumstances in which it is necessary, so what we presented through the Civil Service Act on Tuesday, we need to make sure that some people work in the system for a certain time, that they're going to be called either one way or another, I don't think it matters, it's important, so whether they're doing that job that we're planning on doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138401	Mr. Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138402	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Prime Minister Plenkovic announced at the beginning of the mandate that it would be less state administration, more efficient and cheaper. And look at the wonders, it became 20 less than 19 because from 19 ministries it grew to 20. The abolished Ministry of crafts associated with the Ministry of Economy, with which craftsmen were against it as we from the HSS, we see that the number of crafts decreases is probably a contribution to saving and helping our craftsmen. You've kept the assistant ministers and introduced the secretary of state for two and a half years, so let's finally remember to do it to save. However, you have also increased the number of central state offices to 5 and now with the Croatian Fire Department to 6, again it is a savings, and in the meantime more than 2,000 people employed by the EU's departments of jobs are withdrawing funds, and so far we have realised from 10 to 30% where. So it's ineffective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138403	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138404	I can't agree, so, with this last sentence of yours, it's ineffectiveness. We are just creating through this law a prerequisite for this efficiency to improve. About the ministries I don't think you'd really say anything, they're not subject, so the change in this package of laws, but certainly all of these changes provided for by the system law and this whole package of laws, I didn't, unfortunately, because of the time I could respond to Mr. Demetliki, so it would lead to significant savings and it could be mathematically demonstrated. After all, for a second reading, we will also prepare a mathematical model from which you will see how much savings there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138405	Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138406	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, it's clear to me that the state needs to cut costs, that's important, but how do we make efficiency out of that law, how do we get more simple and faster all of the documents or certificates they're looking for from the state's state officials who are reducing their costs? It's very, very important. Where's the efficiency? How much can we make it really out of the ministry to make offices around the county and around the state that it goes really, really fast. The worst is when you have to come five times or six times or someone doesn't know how to make it, or the law is prescribed, and we still don't know it down there, and it's in a lot, a lot, a lot of times with craftsmen and businessmen looking for decisions, papers, and so we have problems, and that's the importance of efficiency when we make efficient employees, of course and reduce and digitize, then we'll have both efficient and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138407	Mr. Nekic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138408	I agree fully with you, but we will ensure that through the digitisation of public services. So, I don't know how much you know, but the Ministry of Administration is currently implementing seven European projects, and we're going to sign some other contracts that will allow, meaning that all these services are being digitized right now, to reduce potential corruption and ensure that these services are implemented more quickly and efficiently. So we through all these projects, and I have to remind you that I am the oldest official in the ministry, not by age, but by the date I arrived on 28.4.2017 at that point we didn't have any contracts for any project and we didn't have, so we approved no summary for any project. We have seven contracts signed today, and we're about to sign another one, and I'm sure we've done a great job in these two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138409	Thank you, too. Just two words for a stenogram. In the course of the replica, unfortunately for a moment he has the right to do so, of course, because we didn't throw him out, he came back to Mr. Maras and opened his manifest again, his laptop manifesto and ran away, so I, since he's not in there, can't even throw him out. I just want to say one thing, that before he got here, that laptop was closed, and it was closed by a member of the SDP club. I would now ask that within the SDP Club to try to solve this problem so that, as already announced by Mr. President HS, the sentence actually does not take effect. Thank you very much. Penalty, yes. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Kresso Beljak is first in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Let's go for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138410	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Your Honor State Secretary, for presenting this bill you call reform or reform through three pillars of decentralisation, decentralisation and digitization, if I have been careful, I think I have. To praise her in any case, the Club of Assembly Representatives of HSS and Democrats can and must commend as the entire public any attempt to reduce the state administration, any attempt to depolitise, any attempt to decentralisation, and especially digitisation in a country where birth certificate is a document worth only 6 months still, I also told Mr Plenkovic more than a year ago. So, in one state of absurdity where a man must prove that he was born with a document called the birth certificate in the time we live in 2019, I think you should work on these little things because those little things that are irritated by 90% of the people of all the voters, all the parties, the left, the right, the centralists, and all of them, so you would make a big step to get rid of these, so I'm just going to say open nonsense, I just don't know what else to say here about a document called the birth certificate, and which has six months of duration, you know, but you can't do it yourself. For what? Because if you did, someone would be out of a job. So this birth certificate exists because it's because someone's printing it because someone's going to turn that paper over to him in the job description, and that's why we can't get to the right reforms, because you don't have the strength, you don't have the government, or anyone else, because if you go into cutting really these unnecessary things, unnecessary bureaucracy, unnecessary paperwork, or for every single one of those unnecessarily paper sheets, someone's going to lose their pay. And that someone who gets paid basically stops the whole system, chokes the whole state and defends every policy, every political party to implement what you said, and that's also depolitisation and decentralisation and digitization. Information on 96 ministerial assistants is frantic in a country with less than 4 million inhabitants. In fact, we don't know how many residents we have, so then we come up with all sorts of numbers, how many people were born, so one has one estimate, the other one, so it's growing, there's inflation, one says during Prime Minister Milanovic HDZ that 100,000 people have left the state, and then 200,000, 300 now we have 400,000 the last few years, no one knows the exact information because this last one, this last column you said, because again it's about digitisation. You know, Mr. Secretary of State of State of the Modern State doesn't do the population list the way we did in 2011, and apparently it's being prepared in 2021 or nobody's talking about it. The methodology that created the 2011 census is the methodology used 100 years ago, which has an error + - 10%, which is crazy again in 2019, at a time when 10-four high school students can make a register of the population of about 4 million people and where you can have 100 base stations and 100 nodal centres where, by digital card, a chip of a regular card that can serve both as a personal and as a driver and as a health care professional, all of this can be done, where you have pressure on enter in every second the data exactly how many taxpayers, how many voters there are, how many violations there are, how much everything, all of this is expensive to do. There's only one problem then all this would be on 100 computers all over the country, and this is how it is in 20 or more thousand jobs, so people who are doing the job, who are holding up digitisation, are also people who are politically in love, employees at all levels, in a way that is very well known to you, who has been dragging out from the time of Yugoslavia, from the time of communism, where you couldn't get a well-paid or a place in the state administration if you weren't a member of the party, later on in a short period of 10 years, something less tried to change, so even during President Tudjman there were ministers who weren't party members. So there was, there was that light at the end of the tunnel in a short period but it quickly went out and every day it went off more and more and more, and as much gas as it was, the data all together tells you how much the state administration is going on and how much the number of employees is going on at all levels. So this is about depoliticization, there can be no words about depoliticisation, absolutely nothing, and you're very well aware of that. Besides, it's your party's voting machine, and you won't do it as much as you have a good will, because at that moment when you go into those depolitical procedures, you're going to lose the election. There have been great attempts at open job tenders, none of them have been implemented, we all know that despite the fact that the tenders are open, even the people who report to the competition are calling because it makes sense to have any kind of appearance, and party cards, party cards of people who are appointed to all functions tell you that from depolitisation nothing. You even have people who are members of several parties, here's when we're already on the subject, but there's no register of party members. You had a lady's case I think she was in Krka National Park if I'm not mistaken for who's a member of HDZ and HNs, probably also the HSS, so when someone comes to join the HSS, I have no way of checking if he's already a member of the HDZ. So, there should be order first, but you have people who are skillfully exploiting the fact that they can be members of multiple parties, so when they come to power, they pull out that card, and I'm convinced that there are 1,000 people who are capable enough to be members of both left and right and red and green and blue parties, and all of them are expensive to be employed in a job in the state administration. I repeat all levels. I'm going to say a few sentences about decentralisation, which is also closely related to depoliticalization and digitization. There is a correlation between the development of a particular society and the degree of centralised or decentralisation, so the most developed countries in Europe and in the world are those with the highest degree of decentralised society. The Danish ratio 90:10, Swiss ratio 85:15, everything is on your cantons, so the central state I think has several ministers, no one alive knows who the president of Switzerland is, who the prime minister of Switzerland is, but everything works and the state is one of the richest in the world. On the other hand, the most centralised state in Europe at the moment is Croatia, and until yesterday it was Greece. The ratio is, therefore, 90% and financial resources and powers are at the state level, and only 9% at the local level, only 9% and something is at this regional level that we call counties that are absolutely unnecessary in this medieval form and which are additional brakes, which are invented to bring down part of the power and money from the state level to the county level and take away part of the local level. So health care, for example, is at the level today at county administration, so I think what that makes sense, high school county, so it's just to justify the existence of a county. In Split-Dalmatia County I am a frequent guest, Hvar, the island of Hvar, Starigrad itself, the town of Hvar, which contributes to this are rich and attractive tourist destinations not only of the county but of the state budget, so there are billions of EUR that Hvar, the island of Hvar brings to all types of budgets to the state level, we all agree together. Isn't it pathetic and sad to see an independent mayor, mayor of Hvar literally begging the mayor on his knees and thanking him for getting a 100m new waterfront? Here's your model of governance, a model that can't be good. Of course Hvar, Istria, Samobor rich in Croatia should help those who are less rich, it is so everywhere in the world, besides Europe, we are the ones who are the beneficiary of resources that are richer, but not in a way that those who are rich have nothing. Or that they have to pray on their knees practically to get county or state into being their own money. We were counting in Samobor only VAT is collected annually in the Samobor City area almost 2 billion kuna, only VAT, Samobor has a budget of around 200 million kuna. And then people ask what's wrong with the roads, people ask what's wrong with the home of health, people ask what's wrong with the firemen if you want, what about the specialists in the home of health, they've all told us everything because you're rich, you have everything. This system can't be good, this system rewards those who don't work because they'll get money, I'm talking about local administration, if they're politically similar. I could talk about my experiences for three days, just my experiences. I think it is necessary to welcome, resume, attempt at such reforms and depoliticalisation, decentralisation, digitisation but should be made clear until you decide to do so, along with all other political parties, to make one programme, one as counterpart Shucker said, recovery, recovery plan. So this should be a joint strategic programme that should be supported by key political parties and should be implemented in the next 20 years. Then it won't happen if all parties stop behind each election to change state secretary to assistants, and then ministerial assistants move away, and then stay together and then we have the awakening, the awakening of people employed by the ministries at that level that it's for a country like Croatia with that number of residents absolutely unsustainable in the long run. Well, thank you very much, and we're not going to support this bill, but we're going to try to get the amendments done, so I hope you adopt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138411	Thank you, Mr. Whiteman. Now it's Mr. Josip Boric from the club, in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138412	Thank you very much, Vice President, so here's the impression of our colleague, I've given myself a little bit of an effort, and it's a system of state administration to count all the tight measures we've had in this session, in this term, and compared it to 4 so far for the public. In this summation over, it means a total of 392 warnings, taking words and away from the session. In terms of terms from 5 to 8, in total 310, it is clear that we know what time we live in, what happens in the assembly, why individuals like this gentleman have over 70 strict measures and what the other MPs have to do to in some way all of them would have to suffer or participate together with such ones. in the part where responsibility is transferred to everyone equally. And we're part of that whole state administration system. So in the fourth term, 13 years 310, only in these 2.5 years over 390 staging measures. And it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138413	Mr. Boric, you've made a connection, a link, a pardon with the state administration, but I think if you keep talking about this topic that I'm going to have to warn you about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138414	I had to. For the sake of the public, however, to make a difference because the Law on the State Administration System in its first reading for 7 years in force, in its 8 parts it clearly tried to lay down the entire system of state administration to understand it, to know what the state is through its administrative bodies and organisations and how it works. [[Intruder: Minimum warning.]] This bill, as well as the previous ones we discussed, is part of the government's programme in the segment of public administration and justice system. What we promised in 2016 will be done and delivered means the result I often speak of by the end of this term. In the current system of state administration, we had ministries, 20.5 central state offices and that for public procurement, for renovation and housing, for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and for the development of a digital society, and the 5 that we founded means the central state office for sport when we wanted to give that segment of Croatian society stronger importance and to provide funding for certain activities. We also have 7 state institutions from the state geodetic administration, through the hydrometeorological institution to the Institute for Intellectual Property, Measurement, Statistics, Radiological and Nuclear Security, Protection and Rescue, and 4 independent institutions, HZZO, HZMO, HZZ and Croatian Bureau of Standards. It's the current system that we have, of course, with the offices of the state administration. With this proposal we have also heard from the State Secretary, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants 20 state administration bodies to be reduced i.e. to transfer to regional self-government units and in that part to honor the part that she has promised, which is the story of depoliticalisation of the state administration, decentralisation and digitisation. We also heard the opinions that I say disagree with that 3 concept even though I say every look of us MPs can be different from that expressed by a colleague of Beljak himself. When we talk about depoliticisation, certainly this part of the law that speaks in the article, in that article when it mentions who manages it, it clearly states that it now proposes that the ministries manage or manage it means the minister and his secretary of state, and that within the ministry can be established meanings of the administration and that within these administrations, they can be directors of the administration, which is a story about 10 years old. So we had this try in 2009, then the term director of the administration was also introduced, and then the assistants were all changed in order so the directors of the administration were selected in a public competition and as such they functioned until 2011. Then came the second government and considered such a solution not good and changed the entire system, instead of deputies i.e. Instead of the state secretaries, they returned the deputy ministers, mostly said then in one or more of the two persons, but it was mostly one per ministry and then, on the third level, ministerial assistants as state officials appeared. At that point, it is clear that we do not want that part of the attempt to remain a professional public administration with the head of the administration who was elected to a public competition because politics always finds a reason, and then the reason was so you set it up and left it to yourself to people who were simply yours or were assistants, etc. And they don't deserve to be so professionally employed in terms of the director of the administration, but they simply need to be removed in a way that we, at the head of the administration, will put the assistant minister. And that was then done in 2012 i.e. By the end of the 12th month when the government took an oath to the first law to be amended, it changed exactly that system. I say today we go back to that story and make this story about professionalism. depoliticisation indeed remained at the two levels of command that we can thus say or manage can continue on the shift of each government to change only the minister and his first associate then State Secretary, then some deputy minister, that the third level of what is equally illogical, that we have three levels of command in the current system, that this third level is professionalised and that management directors as the most professional people in certain areas within the ministries can truly unburdened to do their job. Whether this will last or not will show time. I say the first experience has fallen into the water. I think this would come to life that it would obviously take one longer period than the two years we had at the time, to see if it would come to life and if any other political option would want to continue this professionalization business. When we talk about decentralisation, it is clear through the Ministry, i.e. through the proposal of this law, which goes from the state level, to the regional level, that's the state administration offices, and that's where we go back for a while, I think by 2000, when the public administration offices re-formed and its counties and regional units then increased, they appeared at some state level. I think that's good, because so far we have had the illogicalness to say only in the state system within the current structure, where you had inspectors within the ministries you in the second degree or in the first degree, after the first solution had the opinion of the Minister in the same ministry on a solution written by his inspector. I think this separation of inspectorates into a special administrative body, as in a special organisation and how it contributes to the fact that we can talk about depoliticalisation and movement means the independence of these bodies and their powers within the system of state administration. When we talk about decentralisation, it is clear that this government has made it most possible for the financial part to first feel this decentralisation and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, and I think that this was the second tax, the second part of the tax reform when more than 2 billion kuna was reduced to local self-government, meaning that until then they ended up in the state budget. This government, with attempts, means that through certain powers, but also through this law, when we talk about regional level, it still wants as many tasks as possible, or the commitment of the state to the units of local and regional self-government. Of course, we're not just putting down power. and structure, but also the means that the movements will mean those people employed within the current state administration systems. What I would say in the end when we talk about the digitisation of the Ministry of Administration is also how it has done so over the last 2.5 years to make that part feel better in terms of the availability of the administration itself to our citizens and that more can be solved by not coming into a certain institution, i.e. certain administrative bodies, although we do not have to say that we are fully and content with this because there is indeed room for digitisation to solve the many problems our citizens face when they meet, means with their acts or documents or needs that they need to address within the entire system. A good example is, let's say, a story that solved digitization in part I don't know, car registration, building maintenance, i.e. technical examinations, transfer of ownership and everything else you're solving today in just a few minutes and you don't need to know how to verify or perform any activities, and you can transfer property over some movement or do the basic things that you need to do so that you can function. I think there's a lot of space there that many documents are digitally simply delivered to the parties to be available to them and, of course, through it all in some way, it still works. I think that, in this part of it, it is still worth mentioning means that these 96 ministerial assistants, the bill should come into effect on the proposal on the 1st of July 9, it is in line with the promise made by the diameter when the government took the oath, I remember, when it clearly said, that the system of assistants would be around 2-2.5 years and that after that, this system would be abolished and would go towards the professionalization of the public administration and, of course, that we are prepared, I say, in fact, to discuss this proposal of the law, which I believe is good and the HDZ Club will support it in this form, of course with some suggestions, which we can add to the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138415	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Robert Podolnjak's turn, in front of the Independent Lists Bridge's Advocacy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138416	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This second law from a package proposed by the government, to the purpose of self-cite rationalisation, depoliticalisation and decentralisation of the state administration. This is even a system law that is proposed as a whole as a new law. And let's take a closer look at what he's actually bringing. A commercial often said by Minister Kuscevic and the government that this law will lead to some depoliticisation in the state administration is disappearing, the place of about 100 ministerial assistants is being abolished, will be replaced by state officials, major savings will follow. First of all, this only, first of all, says how many officials we have even in that third echelon of office positions, after ministers and state secretary. So almost a hundred ministerial assistants in 20 ministries. I think that one colleague asked a little earlier, how many government officials are there in the first place, if you could put together all these ministers and secretaries, ministerial assistants and all the other officials. I asked the same question in the previous debate on amendments to the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State Debts and in fact no one will tell you that information. It hides like a snake's feet. But the fact is that in Croatia we probably have per capita, the most state officials and local officials, an extremely large number, but interestingly, no one will tell you, nor the state officials or state secretary, which is a famous number, which we would certainly not only advocates, but also the public would like to know. If it's going to be a real depolitanization, we'll see about that. Of course it would be a positive step but only on one condition. If we were to actually carry out objective and transparent public tenders, in which we would be elected, those candidates who have the best qualifications, whether or not they have, and not those who have the ruling party's party card or some parties who are in the coalition. But let us express our suspicion that this will lead to the process and the appointment of new officials and officials based on more transparent competitions and that the result will ultimately be the one that you want to convince the public. Well, we recently had the appointment of Director of Krka National Park, after which, in general, the most professional candidate, Dr Ljiljana Zmijanović, an unemployed lawyer, a science doctor, who had just doctored in the area she qualified to be the principal. A candidate who has been found to be a member of the political party has been elected instead. And how to believe after that in depolitisation, that the most professional candidates can appear and that they will surely be elected. It is this example that we see that, unfortunately, it is one mirage, with which you want to convince the public, but every concrete example of any public tender, shows that this is exactly what is not respected, the expertise and quality of the candidates, but usually comes out of some other important characteristics, and this can be nepotism, party qualifications and so on. So let us be extremely skeptical in this process, but as I said, in the replica, it will be interesting to follow, and here I say, especially to the media and the public, where will the 96 ministerial assistants, who are now on political officials, end up? Whether it will return to some of its former jobs where they worked and new positions, based on public procurements in as various directors, state administrations, will be selected to be the most professional people who will appear in competitions or will, in fact, be the basis of the public tender chosen for these directors of state administrations only. It will be interesting to see where these 100-year-old government officials actually are, in fact, screaming after they have exhausted the rights they have under the law and that will happen relatively soon. What is also particularly controversial is the introduction of a new category of persons, for a term of office for the duration of the government, i.e. the Croatian Parliament, which will come as the trade unions called it, as a kind of entourage of ministers who will be advisers, administrative staff, who will come with them at the beginning of the mandate and leave with them at the end of the term. So almost 100 people who are called persons by law, they're not government officials, they're not public officials, they're not civil servants, they're something else. One hybrid category, which will be accepted on the basis of the ad, into the cabinets of ministers, the Office of the Prime Minister, the Office of President-in-Office of the Parliament. A similar variant existed for the former government, Prime Minister Milanovic, a model where people also came but I think without a public tender, so the Constitutional Court abolished it. Now there's a slightly different version of this similar model that the difference is just going to be getting through an ad, as if it were a big difference, but it's clearly intentional. The minister, I think of Minister Kusčević in an interview, said literally the following. We need to surround ourselves with the people who are with us. From that sentence you can see exactly who should be in those seats in the cabinets of the Minister, namely the Office of the Prime Minister or the President of the Croatian Parliament. So the closest associates of those who walked with them during the election promotion, those who held an umbrella when it rained, those who actually after the elections should become advisers, party people, those who cannot take care of themselves in some position that did not enter the Croatian Parliament, for which you have no place at all but will be in those positions in the cabinets of ministers or the Office of the Prime Minister or of the President of the Parliament, 100 persons who are one of the new hybrid categories that are neither in this nor in any other law. Once, the Constitutional Court said that such categories do not have a place in the state administration. And it's absolutely no way to depolitize the state administration. You're actually showing that if you want to work at these places in the cabinet of ministers, or in the Office of Prime Ministers or Parliament, then you must actually be good with people who will be head of ministries, that you must first be party people who will then be based... be admitted to those places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not depoliticization. It's a return to something that actually the Constitutional Court once already abolished and I don't know why repeat that same story just slightly differently formulated in the legal provision. These people are also defined as coefficients, only in this law define coefficients in the system of state administration, all others have other coefficients, or in the Law on State officials or on laws governing civil servants. Finally, the third part of the story relating to decentralisation, which is to entrust the state administration's affairs to the counties, so the jobs that are now being done in the Offices of State Administrations in the counties or cities. And it's actually a very important part that is of course not regulated by this law, this law only leaves out the provisions relating to doing these jobs in the offices of the state administration, the county. What we know is actually very little. And the e-consultation asked a series of questions especially from two counties and how many opportunities I had to see that appeared in that e-consultation which was said by the way, of course, but it shouldn't be spoken more or more for just 15 days, it became a rule instead of 30 days that should be a rule. But we repeat it so many times that it doesn't make sense anymore. So these counties are faced with a number of issues, the fact is that, that this law should take effect to me on 1 June of this year, 2.5 thousand employees in the offices of the state administration, should become a sequence of local officials, they will continue to do the jobs they have been doing so far but these jobs will be entrusted to the county as well as to the units of regional self-government. First of all, the view is that these jobs should not have been entrusted to the county, there are previous experiences that certain public administration jobs are entrusted to large cities or county headquarters, such as the issue of construction and location permits. I don't understand why this model wasn't proposed by the government to the Croatian Parliament. And I think that model had good experience even though for areas outside the big cities these jobs were done by the county. But now you're directly transferring all jobs to the county. You said, on the questions they asked and in the e-consultation asked one fellow representative in one replica, since the counties should take over these employees and you do not provide additional financial resources for their salaries, do you expect the counties to bear that burden of financial expense that is not small for 2.5 thousand employees. You replied, if I listened well that you would offer severances for a number of these 690 officers if I am not mistaken and you hope that they will accept the severances, so those who will meet the conditions for retirement and will partially relieve the counties later in those financial costs. But there's one logical question to me, if these 690 civil servants would accept severances, and it will cost, according to your assessment 150 million kuna, if they retire, does that mean that the counties won't have to hire new employees, or new employees, because the question is, if they leave, and they don't have to hire new employees, were they excess? Are they excesses? Watch out, then, that's almost 700 employees you said would no longer be charged by the county because they're going to retire. So it's only going to be about 1800, but that's a big expense, too. The question is, I'd like to ask you for an answer, are those 700 people who are working now, and who are going to leave, by your assessment in retirement, unnecessary? These jobs no one's gonna do again? They're going to redistribute to those 1800 that stay? To me, that question remains a completely, completely, vague answer to that question. And in the end, it's predicting 50 laws that, of course, regulate these jobs that should be passed in the second half of the year. So we'll have one legislative stampede when we get back probably after summer with a lot of laws. At some point, it will intertwine with other jobs, rather than entirely, when you wanted to implement that reform, in general, systematically propose everything comprehensively. And they wonder, normal county, in which order these laws will come, when they will actually gradually take over these jobs, how they will change the rules, etc. All that remains Completely unregulated by this proposal. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138417	Thank you. He's in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club now. Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We were very pleased at the GLAS and HSU Club when we saw this proposal of the State Administration System Act because we felt that a new concept that we really needed would be presented and that we had a lot of patching and constituency, which would be said, but think about the State Administration, and the state administration is one of the two key elements of the functioning of every political community at all, therefore, you have also banned politicians who are exchangeable and control element where citizens have the ability to change and control them through how they work and state administration, which is a element of continuity and stability, so those who are not exchangeable in principle and who have specific knowledge, let's say, what I know, exist in many European countries, in the departments of offices that during the elections, for that period after the election of a book on the policy of that ministry, specifically I know of foreign affairs, depending on who will win, therefore, and who has a chance to win. Two, three, in some cases 7 of such books, civil servants are able to prepare to implement the policy that the party or coalition advocated, while at the same time not losing the continuity that the state has in its performance in the business. So this is one, one we need to discuss the structure of the state and the system of state administration and we need to discuss what we want to achieve with this and therefore all the derivatives, including, of course, education for the state administration. However, from this proposal that is before us, it is not, I must say clearly, what is and what is the purpose of this proposal. He's extremely uneven, you've probably all noticed, that in one of those same laws you have very principled things that apply, let's say the realization of some fundamental constitutional values, and on the other hand you have very, almost at the level of the description of officials' jobs in the state administration. So the level of generality this law has is completely uneven and I don't think it can be spoken of as reform law. He's got a few goals, I've tried them, and I'm going to bring them in, try to filter out from a lot of the generalities that are listed here, and then some concrete things that are going to be achieved about those famous assistants, which we've been talking about about something about the cabinets of ministers, which I honestly think, in the experience of not being a bad idea, people have to start working as soon as they get there, and this is possibly one way that you don't stay in the ministries forever then, but that they change, so, and only a stupid minister will bring incompetent people into the cabinet, so that's the right thing to do, because otherwise it's a huge risk, everyone would rather bring people who can actually do something to help him in the business. It is not clear what idea, which idea, which vision or model, which in the State Administration System Act should be, is behind this law, or what did the Proposer have in mind? Examples, centralization, decentralisation. So, on the one hand, it is said that what they have now done to the offices of the state administration will be transferred to the counties. Furthermore, this centralization must be content. On the other hand, some elements of the state administration function much better centralised. Therefore, the principle of subsidiarity should be the most important principle in determining whether we will have a centralised or decentralised state administration. It decentralizes everything that can be done at a lower level, it's some principle of subsidiarity, but what it's not, it has to be organised centrally professionally and with quality people, and we don't see if there's any concept of the promoter in front of his eyes. Another dilemma, a high degree of expertise in the state administration, a kind of participatoryness, so let's open it up, so let's let different people get into that state administration, there may be some arguments for that attitude. As far as we're concerned, I would be on the side of a high degree of expertise, and less participatory when it comes to the state administration, would be more participatory with elected officials or elected officials because, of course, the hands to the heart of the government, and senior civil servants are also in some form holders of power. But it's also not clear from this whether it's about expanding that base of people entering the state administration through different institutes that are being introduced here, like. The translation of former assistants into the present defacto will be permanent not at the mandate, but permanent employees in the state administration or going in this direction of expertise. A fourth element that I find important to ensure knowledge, status and professionalism? So in this combination of low wages, a large number of people, a lot of nepotism, status, and then the knowledge of civil servants is low, and through that, of course, it's difficult to put high demands on what state administrations should meet and what state defacto they need. The fifth element of the relationship between elected politicians and the attitude of the state administration, therefore, is a very dim picture here because one is translated into another defacto through this law. Which one do I see in the paper? One, Art. On the 19th and 20th, who, as you would say, is a micronivore, so on the one hand, what I said is you have this unequal level, on the one hand you have general places and general constitutional values, on the other hand you determine that in the event that one party is running several administrative procedures, that pause will be able to apply from now on through a single administrative post. It's very nice, but it's not the Law on the State Administration System, it's some regulation that needs to be introduced, all good and all simplified and certainly needs to be simplified, but it's not about the vision and concept of a state administration that could be reflected through this law, but it's kind of pedantic, so to speak, a small change that will certainly be useful but it's, it's not the time for it, it's not a place of this kind of law. State administration offices are being abolished practically by county and their jobs are being transferred to the county and these famous ministerial assistants are now becoming permanently employed by the state administration, so something that should have been done not two and a half years ago, then at least two years ago to avoid being duplicated with state secretaries, which so far has all been duplicated. The conclusion from this is if you look at something about inspection and administrative surveillance, but the conclusion that if you look at this whole law and you really go through it, you see that it brings these three elements that I mentioned, so one place for an administrative procedure that is okay, but it's not, it can't be part of the concept of thinking about the state administration, turning assistants into permanent employees and abolishing the state administration's office. But that the concept of state administration, and as the system of state administration as the title says, is not here. You from whatever you do, however you read it, you can't read the vision or the idea or model of the system of state administration that the applicant has, and that's the main problem of this law, and now if we follow it logically further, we don't know what we support, and if we reject it, we don't know what we refuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138419	Thank you, Mr. Sagar, he will speak on behalf of the club of independent agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138420	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear state secretaries of fellow Members and colleagues, so the direction in which this law works may be familiar to us, but surely I am referring to the presentation of my colleague Pusic, the orientation of this law is unknown, perhaps the direction and we know the orientation we really do not know, and that is what people of the profession cite as a basic prerequisite for public administration reform is precisely orientation, with the motivation that we know what we want to achieve. This morning I may have said in a rougher way that it is rude that the minister is not here, not because the secretary of state can't defend this law well and I believe he is professional and he can do it, but because the minister may see in one dialogue what it is that this law adopts and does not speak directly. What this law fails to say, and in its statement on Croatian Radio, the minister made it very clear, says we want to give this law an opportunity for the mayors to justify the existence of the county. So, what I'm reading from his statement, first of all, is that he's not giving up on this kind of structure of the Republic of Croatia and secondly that he wants to show in this way that the county has a purpose, which is not an intensity and should not be the intensity of this law. If we look at the research on decentralisation referred to as a motive in this law only 1% according to the survey, only 1% of local self-government units have accepted the decentralised function of health, 8% of education, 5% of social care and 28% of the fire department. Why are the local self-government units the county and the large cities that accept it, why do many units of self-government not accept these decentralised functions? The answer is very simple, they have no money and, in this sense, this transfer, in fact, is the suspension of the existence of a state administration office in the counties and the transfer to the county level is to welcome it from the point of view of political decentralisation, but this, therefore, remains a serious issue of financing all these employees and all those jobs that will result. That's one, one point of this, this law and what the minister, the State Secretary of State in the introduction said when it comes to decentralisation. When it comes to depoliticisation, turning ministerial assistants, actually replacing ministerial assistants with management directors or officials is generally not bad, it doesn't necessarily have to be bad. However, there is a question of self-implementation and competitions in the Republic of Croatia we are aware and daily if you ask citizens their opinion on public tenders, that they are all but transparent. Here in one of the previous laws when I gave the amendment to the fact that when canceling the competition, it must be explained why the tender was annulled that amendment was rejected, very smoothly. We don't have any transparency, people don't know, if you ask people in the field when they get, when they don't get a job at the state administration, when all the stages go through, the testing contests, they all don't even get feedback about it, but they find out on some maybe ad boards or by accident, there's not even one, I'm aware there's a lot of them, but there's not one decent, decent procedure to get their documentation back, to sort of thank them for being involved, and to inform them that they didn't get it. That's what people say, I don't know if it's true, maybe the secretary of state can say if it isn't, but that's how people do it on the ground. So, raising the level of depolitised functions so that political functions are only state secretaries and ministers to welcome it, but then we come up with this problem that the media called the re-recast door, so what is being reintroduced, and these are the special advisers of the minister and administrative assistants. Although the Minister and the Secretary of State here have rejected that it is a revolving door because there is an amendment to what was previously proposed and that the Constitutional Court eventually rejected it, which is that these people are not named by, that they are not, that they are not actually civil servants but that they are accepted on the basis of competitions under the general rules of the Labour Act, but for a certain time. So, on time while the minister is in the cabinet and they are. The principle does not have to be bad and can be welcomed, however, it now raises a question, two issues. The first question is really still in work, I was never a minister, so I don't know, is there really no within the ministry of people who are professional enough to be able to direct the Minister in the implementation policy issues represented by a particular government or a minister, or is it such a situation that the minister doesn't trust those people who are there, so he wants people out of trust who are going to be truly loyal to him, so that he doesn't accidentally be advised by some official who would not be loyal to him or boycott his work. These are issues that are being opened, in practice they were, by changing the authorities, there were such, such scenarios, this is a question that should certainly be opened and what I have already asked the secretary of state. How many civil servants will be willing to accept this kind of work, for example. Special advisor? Although they are allowed to return to work, they have stopped their service for a certain period of time in order to act as special advisers, why I ask, because I guess officials who have been in the ministry for many years can best advise the minister who is new, who has come, the minister doesn't even have to be from the system that has come to advise him in this direction. And what, Secretary of State, it was good to have the minister here, but here I'm going to tell you, and many ministers are being told, so believe me, when we talk about counselors and this body and this high house is the same advisory body for the laws, so I guess we know something too, so we're suggesting something to you. Sometimes it would be good to adopt some proposals that have been proposed specifically by the opposition and, unfortunately, so far, it has not been so. Otherwise, when we talk about public administration in the Republic, it has passed many stages of foundation, from stabilisation to 2000 when there have been many failures, and then it was actually that the mayors had, it was even confirmed by the President of the Republic, we had a semi-presidential system, we remember the Zagreb crisis, and then the mayors were doing part of the state administration's affairs, it was a provision that they couldn't be representatives in the Croatian Parliament, someone complained about it, now coming back from this really exists, we had a europeanization in accession negotiations, and today it's the last point of this proposal, it's digitisation, I personally think that the Central State in order for digital society and many ministries are not doing enough, and that we should speed up this pace, we live in the 21st century, we come to 5G networks, we should do more on that field. In this law, it is difficult to read the steps now, but I hope that the Ministry and the Ministry of Administration are working on it through both the system of e-Citizens and through other systems. Unfortunately, this legal proposal cannot be accepted, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138421	You, too. I will now take the opportunity to welcome the entire gallery of students and students of the Electrical Engineering School in Zagreb, this is the second group, the first group we welcome only now because it was crowded in the Assembly when it was before and we failed to greet them, I welcome everyone and the first and second group and thank you for sharing this with us today, not even more morning than early afternoon. [[Applause.]] We are continuing to discuss the Bill's proposal in the system of state administration. Now it's the turn of the HNS club and Mr. Representative Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138423	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. What was said and introduced, so when we talk about the State Administration System Act, the words of this law are spoken for depolitisation, decentralisation that should in one part result in the optimization of the entire public administration let's call it, from local, regional and national levels. What needs to be put in place, every law and when spoken and put in the context of time and space, and so does this, so here's to remind, '93. Mr. County's office was established as the authorities of the state administration and carried out the tasks of the state administration in the first degree. By amending the Constitution in 2000, 2001, special administration offices were set up to return them to the county by this bill. Of course, each of us can have an opinion on this, the HNS's view that this is a certain step, we want it to be a step forward in the perspective, but the question is whether it will ultimately be in the implementation of this and in the operating system. Speaking of depoliticalisation, current current current current ministerial assistants should become directors of the administration. So there won't be those chosen in terms of whether they were elected by citizens on the lists, they were placed in, so the minister was responsible for their appointments and there should be a certain level of professionalisation. Maybe that's how it's gonna be. Now, the question is in principle what we want, in which direction we want to be reorganised with the optimization of the state administration as a whole, looking at this problem from local level, county and national. What kind of public administration does the state need? It needs efficient, it needs quality, and it also needs modern. In modern terms, I believe that certain processes are modernised and that they are followed by that principle, which is also mentioned here and what we can, in part, agree with it, is the principle of subsidiarity. Closest to the one to whom the service is provided. Furthermore, certain conclusions, which may, arising from this part, mean that professional public administration, means that people, who will remain, when the policy, after the elections, is moved, will come to some new, which will be uninterrupted, professionally, professionally, effectively, performing the tasks that are being done. However, there is also a question, and we have been testifying, back for many years, of course, of how governments have changed, thus changing, and even in general, the politics of the Republic of Croatia. We have adopted certain strategies, which one government has adopted, the other has corrected or completely changed the direction, so that it does not need to be horned against the state administration, simply, should be given some tools, which I believe is ultimately foreseen by law, through the adoption of amendments and additions or entirely new laws, certain areas, that it should practically be more functional in that part, and I believe that it will be depolitized, in that negative perceptive part. We're talking here and we're full of depolitics. After all, what are we? Well, we're politics. In that part, I'm absolutely not into depoliticizing, but, that negative context, which arises, not always, not everywhere, partly, absolutely. I don't think anyone is, who's against that kind of depoliticalism. As far as the county itself is concerned, I mentioned the introduction, so first they were the offices of the state administration in the county, so in 2001 the office of the state administration, excluded from the county, the county became, let's say, regional centres. We must not ignore one thing, in 2009 for the first time, there were direct elections in Croatia, for mayors, mayors and mayors. I have here a certain delay, with that, because these top people who choose directly citizens, will also be appointed to these taken over services, the offices of the state administration, which will become a member of the county offices. Which part? It is mentioned, which is likely to be a product, the adoption of this law, optimization, deliberately speaking optimization, which will result in a reduction in the number of employees, whether it will be taken over by the Office of the State Administration or by the current ones who are currently employed in the county. We believe in HNS that optimization is necessary, however, what is key, is this reform law? So in part, we can agree, however, I think that first of all we should ask ourselves, in general, by looking at, what is our social political structure in the Republic of Croatia? There's a lot of talk about a lot of municipalities, cities, counties, do we need that, do we need that number? Because we have 1 law, regardless of whether the municipality is a population of 1500 or a city, of which I don't know 30-40 or 15 thousand inhabitants. Equal powers, self-government, etc. Is it possible, it wasn't thought I couldn't read here, there are a large number of municipalities, and even smaller cities, which aren't human enough capacitated, for the behaviour of certain functions, that behave. Is it possible that a large number of these, or a small number of civil servants, are there not considering perhaps trying in some way to optimise local self-government, in humane terms, if it is not going to reduce the number, or, rounding, you would prefer that word, rounding certain, or for a certain number of municipalities and cities, to get the quality of people from the state administration's office. He's just missing them. For which reasons, the fact is that the salaries in the state administration are small, in relation to those qualifications that certain officials have, not all, certain officials, are less than in local self-government, and by that logic, I believe that one large number of people, who can't find the current places, or because they're talking about surpluses, about severances, might be considered in a way, to fill certain gaps at local self-government level. For more units of local self-government, I'll be, for example, you have 3-4 municipalities that don't have a licensed public procurement person. I think that's the biggest problem right now, and in the offices of the state administration, you have highly educated people, who may be better quality and simpler, and get that license and qualifications done, that part of the job, for more of them. Furthermore, as far as the county itself is concerned, the question arises, if we are not going into a wider reorganisation of local, regional self-government, obviously with this part wants to strengthen them. I also remember the time when health care was being run by the state. Well, only then did they transfer it back to the county, so they were minuses, so they were getting rid of it. As far as schooling is concerned, and we want to stick to the principle of subsidiarity that in this part, with all due respect to the secretary of state, my colleagues and colleagues, I don't feel, I don't see that any principle of subsidiarity is happening and that in practice it will come to life. Why? You and now you have the offices of the state administration, the facilities within the county that will remain as they are, we assume. Even some state administration offices that will belong to the county to rationalise will be abolished in certain places. So we'll have a smaller service at that level. So subsidiarity doesn't feel like it happened because it's these officers who are now in these facilities that are still going to stay, except now they're going to be under county hat, so far they've been under the hat of the state. As far as schooling is concerned, people ask me as mayor when you're going to graduate. The founder is the county, the founder of the county and only the County Assembly can make a decision to take over, to allow us to be founders, or to assume founding rights. We have the capacity for it, we have the intention, we have the desire, but it can't, the county's holding back in that part. And not just in that part, in many other things. Of course, the examples I have, maybe there's someone else, maybe there's some other county that's different. However, each of us speaks on the basis of his experience. As far as schools are concerned, I also have to answer this question, so it means guidelines that are in public procedure, public consultation on school optimization, which is a recommendation to the county and county, and which as founders will also bring a network of schools in their field and also decide on the basis of guidelines that schools from primary, parent schools will turn into district schools and which are not, completely rationally, reasonable optimization. What's two principals or three who can be one? I don't think anybody's up for it, nobody's got a problem with it. If the district schools are going to, we have such examples with 10, 15 students, 4 classes. The 1st and 3rd classes together have classes of 4 students and 6 students of 2nd and 4th grade by three in each class listen to classes. I'm asking what quality class is. And home school, home school is 3 to 5km away. The state is obliged to provide everyone with equal quality teaching, but it will be decided by the county, founders, not by local self-government or state. So on one side. Perhaps local self-government, I totally understand that would want it to stay that way, but the county is deciding again. As well as equipment, quality, school building, single-minded teaching is decided by the county, local self-government for the elementary school, which is, in which town it is. So the secretary of state that, as far as subsidiarity is concerned, I can't agree that this law will make this principle come true because it's just going to be the same. Except people won't leave, they won't tell me I'm going to the state administration offices, but I'm going to county offices, at the same exact location where they were. So that's not a question, as far as I'm concerned, as far as the director is concerned, instead of the assistant minister, I agree, and what I was saying at the beginning, means public administration. But at all levels, it should be made as effective as in the model as in these laws that we had in the debate regarding the Law of Spatial, the Construction Act, means by electronic means to shorten the deadlines and that there can be no silence of the administration. Because unfortunately individual offices and state administrations as well as county offices, there are examples and at local level are too much of a choice. They don't meet, they don't meet citizens' demands, they don't answer questions. Now, what exactly are the reasons, I believe you will find out for yourself in the implementation of this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138424	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Ante Pranic will speak. And these are individual debates, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138425	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By amending the new law, it will only change literally the panels on buildings where public administration workers are now working and nothing more. As far as the public administration of Croatia is concerned, I think everyone knows that it is the biggest driver of economic development, further development of Croatia. When we look at what we have brought to the public administration, that is, what the political options that have ruled Croatia until independence have led us to see one indifference where each government adds new employees and you are now putting them into a situation where constant employees are increasing and the number of Croatian citizens is shrinking and public administration should be in the service of all citizens, and this lack of policy can't justify and see just how much average we stand out for the public sector at EU level, the most. At the legislative, executive power of almost 4% of total GDP, the average is 1.8%. So we stand out the most and at least we're efficient and that efficiency is reflected at the rates of economic growth. And this is perfectly normal because in this fragmented system of public administration of the Croatian State Administration and everything else, new methods, methods based on digitalisation of work processes, work processes are slowed down, nothing in the Republic can be solved without paper. And all this law if we look at the whole of which the Republic of Croatia is currently in place and instead of getting better prepared for the future programming period, to reform from the foundations of the public and state administration of the Republic of Croatia, to adapt to the new requirements that are ahead of us, to respond finally to all of us here whether such a large number of cities and municipalities and counties are needed and that the laws are directed towards rationalisation, first of all here specifically, County, it doesn't matter how much, but whether or not they even exist, this law just gives justification for the existing state of counties. When we strip down the county systems regardless of who is in power in certain counties, what counties currently do crucially, lead education, water health care, run the waste management systems as the most important infrastructure projects in their jurisdiction and irrigation systems. And when we sum up where the Republic of Croatia is by the same four effects, we see that we are the worst and in health care, these are health homes in the jurisdiction of the county, the school where Malta is not 200 and some schools are still heating up on solid fuels, we see irrigation projects that aren't too much of a waste management centre that don't even build. And now we say that this very county system that is not effective and shows no good parameters in these four guidelines will be effective in this part of what is now being transferred to the sphere of state administration. Instead of all saying that it is necessary to reform the Republic of Croatia from the ground up, territorially above all, the counties that are themselves meaningful, circular and strengthened units of local self-government because you now have an example of one Split that cannot develop its potential because it lacks space, and the surrounding municipalities of Split do not have enough fiscal capacity to develop certain projects in complementarity with larger cities. And instead of starting with reform laws, we here at HS now present this law as a reform law, and nothing else will bring about, but will change those panels, tables in front of individual institutions, as it has been so far. As for the rationalisation of the system, the rationalisation of the system, the bureaucratic system of the Croatian public administration, the state administration looks at you in the sphere of separation from the state budget where every year we have an increase in pay mass, the cost of pay and we are talking about rationalisation, that is the number that could only show the rationalisation of a system, and we see that every time the index has an index of year-to-year increases. We are the last in the EU to digitise the process, and we are the first at cost, or at the cost of the public sector, and then we are talking about some reform turns, then we are talking about efficiency and everything else. I think that before this most future programming period, I really expected you to bring into HS a reform set of laws that will reduce, as I said the number of units of local self-government, above all regional self-government, and these processes are nothing more than, let's say, justifying the existence, strengthening of counties, so when we compare the number of counties in the Republic and similar regional organisations in competitive European countries that are even larger than the surface, we see that we are alparians and by number, and by the surface they are very individuals larger than the Republic. And without reforming the entire system, this is one wandering, switching from the board, literally as I said, from one institution to the other, and nothing new will bring us, regardless of what you're saying about the abolition of the assistant, we have 100 assistants and other, you end 100 assistants, and let's say in some other state systems over two years you hire not 100, but you hire 300 other people. In the global mass, it remains increased and so much about this reorganisation and this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138426	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138427	Dear colleague Pranic, I have listened carefully to you, that this is not a reform procedure, especially because it does not enter the political and territorial structure itself in the sense that it actually optimises and rationalises the entire system, but this is actually a transfer of even more jurisdiction, even more responsibility to the county through the abolition of the state administration's office in order to preserve the county in the long term and to actually do one of their analysis through the introduction of a quality system into public administration and to compare the administration's office with the county, so it decides who better and more professionally without political influence, does a certain job. As far as the county is concerned, they have shown unpreparedness in education and in health care, as well as in waste management. So this certainly won't be a good move because we'll have an unbalanced service in parts of the Republic of Croatia again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138428	The answer of the respected representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138429	And all these neat colleagues will be looked at in the services given to our citizens, to our owners, and to certain other institutions, and when we ask why we withdraw such grants, we withdraw it because of the ineffectiveness of the public administration. It is easy to contract funds, but we all know how this goes through the methods of the ZNS, checking and all over the ideas of the state bodies, which show their efficiency and inefficientness by the performance parameters indices, so we also have a report on global competitiveness based on the global economic forum where it analysed the public sector of 140 countries, and Croatia is at its beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138430	Thank you very much. The next replica should be a respected representative of Maras, I ask you to remove this promotional its material in accordance with [[Thank you very much.]] In accordance with DIP's position [[Intruder: No, it's not promiscuous material.]] Comrade Maras, according to DIP's position, please close it. [[Intruder: It's my laptop and my sticker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138431	I beg you, Mr. Jandrokovic said he would report that we see the commission's decision on this, I ask you to allow me, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to tell the replica of my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138432	The DIP's position is clear, and I'm asking you to turn it around.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138433	But I can't get on it, sir, so they have to have a decision. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138434	Look, don't argue with me, you have a clear view of the DIP, I'm giving you a warning about it. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138435	.../ And why are you giving me a warning? What article of the Rules of Procedure? /...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138436	I'm giving you a second warning for that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138437	Please tell me you hurt your article, tell me on the basis of which article you gave me, that I can appeal to him. On the basis of your warning, do not refer to the article [[/Intruder: On what basis did you seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure?]] What is this now? [[Intruder: You did not call for an article either.]] So tell me what article you gave me based on what article. [[/Intruder: 238. He says clearly, and you didn't call on him.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138438	I said, 238, listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138439	Okay, now I know, now I can say what article I mean...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138440	No, you can't anymore, I'm giving you a warning with that... So come on, please, this doesn't make any sense. ... I'm taking away your right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138441	Sir, may I say I can appeal to the Constitutional Committee? Okay, so, Mr. Vice President, [[Intruder: Of course you can.]] Since in 238 it is not written by the saying of what you have given me two warnings and taken away the word, I will have to appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and [[- Yeah, you'll be complaining.]] the political system to finally end this violence. [[/Intruder: Be my guest.]] You've given me two warnings based on, unfounded on the Rules of Procedure, you're throwing me out, you have no right to do this violence. This is, this is amazing. Stop doing that. [[- Intruder: Excellent.]] Stop doing that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138442	Read Article 238 It'll be a lot clearer to you. [[Intruder: It does not say anywhere, so please read it.]] Okay, you can't argue with me. [[/Intruder: Which article, according to which item, read. Tell me.]] It's been a while. [[/Intruder: I can, because you can't do this. Show me where I am, which is written in 238.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138443	Can you tell me which article is, item is broken 238?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138444	Comrade Maras, you cannot speak without my word. Understand that, don't do the circus here I'm asking you nicely. [[You're doing the circus, you want to get me out of the session unfounded.]] Yes, I can. [[Intruder: Can you tell by which item I injured in 238?]] By your behaviour you deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly Yeah, well, with your promotion, and you have a clear view of the DIP. [[You gave me a warning, I didn't even start acting.]] Okay, you're complaining to the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, as you have announced. [[This is not the Rules of Procedure of HS, Mr Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138445	This is incredible violence. Unbelievable violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138446	Uh, here you go, colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138447	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation I ask the Rules of Procedure of the HS to authorise you to hold a session session on the way in which during today's day, including during this item of the agenda, order shall be held at the meetings of the HS. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the DIP's opinion is all that's left. DIP's opinion. the maintenance of order at HS meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the HS Rules of Procedure under the HS Rules of Procedure and on the basis of, in particular, what is set out in Article. 238. The Rules of Procedure of HS. HS, as far as I know, trust you, has not yet adopted the Ethics Code in your work. Until such a code or some other rules are adopted, which will regulate what MPs may and may not do in HS, the only basis on which we can be guided is the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of Labour have no explicit provisions on what MPs can and should not do during the campaign. If I am not mistaken, it has been announced today that my colleague Maras will apply to the DIP. Fortunately, we have a break in the HS session. I believe that the DIP will bring its own right in a specific case before the end of the break, and I ask you to continue the session as we have done for years, that means that there are no strict measures to be made until, in a specific case, the acquis brings in the DIP and so much, I appeal to you to withdraw the second warning you gave to your colleagues to Maras, so that today's session can continue in the regular course. I think we've been working here for years in one way that's right. I don't think the provisions of the rules to which the DIP is called are as rigorous as it's interpreted. And I'm going to finish now because I'm running out of time, [[/Intruder: Yes. This one.]] I would ask you to grant a recess to consult, and once again, I would like to appeal to you from this drama. [[Intruder: You're running out.]] Thank you. [[Employer: A fellow coat of arms.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138448	Comrade Grbin, you are aware as a lawyer that you have now abused the institution of recess because you know the Rules of Procedure very well, and I know that, and you know that the Rules of Procedure can be sought in connection with the point of which it is, and this was not the point, right? So, anyway, I let you talk, and I tolerated it, but I'm not gonna give it a break. I will not give a break, however, to colleagues who have reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your first respected voter's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138449	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 14 has been injured, which says the representative has the right and the duty to take part in the meetings and to debate and vote on them. Today, Mr. Maras, from the beginning of the meeting of the meeting of the moment when he enters the room, sits in his seat or the session is interrupted, he gets a warning. I can understand that the State Election Commission has given the opinion that electoral promotion should be avoided, which puts MPs in a more favourable position than those candidates on the lists for the European Parliament who are not representatives. However, let us not forget that there were numerous candidates for mayors, mayors, mayors who were in local campaigns, held this stage, thus putting those who were not in the Croatian Parliament in a more unfavourable position. On the other hand, if someone bothers this laptop, how are we going to treat the chemical, badges? I know I'm running out of time, but this is a real situation. [[Intruder: Thank you, you're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138450	Dear fellow Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138451	Dear Vice President, I do not know on the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure you do not give Mr. Maras the right to replicate to Mr. Pranic, and if Mr. Maras violates if Mr. Maras violates electoral silence [[/Intruder: And what article do you think he's hurt?]] Then it's on the DIP to determine [[Employer: A colleague of Schibol...]] But you can't limit Mr. Maras's right. [[I'm sorry, next to what?)]] to replicate what is part of his normal work. [[What are you talking about?]] So it's not clear to me that the DIP will punish him if he violates the electoral silence. But you can't decide as vice president whether or not he's breaking electoral silence is not your jurisdiction. [[I'm sorry what you're talking about. What are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138452	Okay, well, I'm giving you a heads-up because you're talking completely out of any.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138453	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. if I may point out only to the fact that you have not responded to the voice of your colleague whether or not you respect her injury [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] but you have to make a statement about it so she can use her business right to announce the committee. [[Intruder: I don't respect, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138454	Of course, of course, honorary advocates of the Dark-Tatitash, here you go. What's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138455	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, for a 10 minute break, it is related to the proposal for a Bill on the System of State Administration which is in the debate, which the motioner has shown as a reform law. We want to consult at the club a little more before individual debates about it, and all in the context of being in the assembly all day, it's not really in the sense of the law that we have, the laws that will introduce the paper, but in fact in a assembly like this one day that's dark to call it that, it's about Mr. Maras. I think we should go back to the topic, Mr. Maras is in a campaign like other MPs and these campaigns are very interesting to take the most prose campaign when the campaign for anyone at local levels for the municipality and for the city's current head or mayor is in an incomparably favourable position than the other because he does his job. So the decision of the DIP will be very interesting because through that decision we will see what it means not only for European elections but for parliamentary or local ones, but I am looking for this break regarding the Law on the System of State Administration because it is an extremely important law that brings the paper. And before the individual debates and replicas that were, we want to consult once more at the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138456	Sure, I'll give you a break. This fellow, go ahead. You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138457	Dear Mr. Vice President, Article 238 has been violated, and you did not really give an explanation to your colleague, Glasovac, and you quote the same article, just a little bit. Nothing, meaning in all the cited provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238 does not deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] So it's nothing, it's got a laptop, it's got something glued on it, but that's no reason to end the right of a parliamentary representative to speak here. I don't know if I'm dressed like this and I don't have a tie to step down from the rules of conduct in the assembly. Therefore, my opinion that there is no basis to deprive my colleague Marasu of his right [[Intruder: Thank you very much, your time is up.]] to speak, and let the DIP punish him. [[You're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138458	He wasn't hurt, he wasn't injured by the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Shuker, would you like to stop with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure for a moment? All right, all right. [[I'm sorry, but I'm the only one who announces that I'm going to speak to the board.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138459	You have injured the Rules of Procedure and colleagues of Ostojić, because Article 236 clearly speaks when seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Ostojić raised a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure while a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritaš spoke. Therefore, you can only speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Anka Mrak-Taritash. And that's what's in our Rules of Procedure, and that's what we started to do to break the Rules of Procedure and say to whom it just doesn't feel right. And I don't mind if you state your opinion, but my colleague Ostojić was not in the assembly all day and you can't talk about his colleague Glasovac because you weren't in the assembly at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138460	Okay, thank you very much. Your time is up. I'll determine, of course, a break at the request of a respected representative, you can't, this on this request by the respected representative Mrak-Taritash and I'll see you again at 14.32. Party at 14.32 p.m. My colleagues and colleagues, here's the break's over, we're back to work, so now we've got it. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.34 HOURS]] Who hurt the Rules of Procedure? There's something someone's been saying. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138462	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the officer has been injured. 236, which says that when I seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I need the President to give me the word immediately, you didn't do it. Second, nowhere in Art. The 236th doesn't say I have to answer someone's question. Anke Dark Tarritash or the like, but he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. Also injured is the Rules of Procedure. In 238, which means I was demeaned by Mr. Schucker for what he said I just came to HS, forgetting that I was on the Committee on internal policy and national security. [[Okay, here, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138463	I estimate he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure, so we'll move on. Now, now we have to, we have another replica of a colleague of the Vesligai on counterpart Ante Pranic. You're giving up on the replica? And, well, I have to read what, therefore, well, then we're going to the next individual debate, and that's the respected advocates of Anka Mrak Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138464	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, we have before us a proposal on the State Administration System Act in the first reading. This law, what we had the opportunity to hear and see was announced as a reform law, and you and I are absolutely aware that this is not the case. The key question when it comes to this law that imposes on us all, what do we really want? What kind of state administration do we want? What do we want to do with it all together? What are we talking about? So we agree all the time, and we can all agree no matter what part of this House we sit from, and that's what you declared to be legal, meaningful, effective and effective. And the key question we need to ask ourselves is that what it is? At this point, we have ministries that issue certain permits and certain acts. We have counties, we have municipalities and cities and we have the bodies of the state administration. I recently met my neighbor who is Mrs. In a decent age and I ask my neighbor how you are, where you go, she tells me, I'm going to the Medveschak municipality to get some paper. The Medveščak municipality is not 25. People still go where there used to be a Medvezčak municipality, which actually... Well, it was easier for me to say 25, not to count right now. [[The incursion from the Assembly is unheard of.]] So people are still saying I'm going to the Medveschak municipality, and it seems to me that some of the examples that we do well should be examples that we follow further. 2007 was once a law on construction and spatial planning that the issue of building and location permits was transferred to the county and large cities. And the county has been doing it for those areas that don't have the capacity and the big cities have been working where they need to and it seems to me that it's a model that's a good model, and now we're still leaving something to do in the county, something will work in the administration office, something will work in the cities that are capable of it. I think, otherwise when you're having problems, a lot of laptops are mentioned today by one of your colleagues, when you have problems with the computer and you call someone who's holding you up, then he says, so turn it off and start again. It seems to me that some of this sort of thing has come the time to maybe turn some things off and start up again, we just need to know what we want. Do we want to be quick, operational, that the acts our citizens are going through, get fast and operational in an appropriate way, if we want to, then let's not complicate, then let's not do anything that won't result in a better outcome all the time. This is within the meaning of the law and this part of jurisdiction, or what we want to achieve. What's of course since morning is the subject of assistants, the subject of state secretary, and I'm going to write to the government one more half of a year ago, and I'm asking them to send me as much information as they do in the ministries, it's about 20 ministries, we have state secretary and assistants, I got the answer that I'm looking for myself, I'm going from one ministry to another, so I have to look for myself, I have to admit that I did it, and I came to the site of one ministry where the old assistants were listed. You said there were 96 assistants, I always do that compared to something I know. The ministry of construction and spatial planning in the term of office in which I was minister had a minister or minister, had a deputy and four assistants. Today, the same ministry has a minister, three secretary of state and five assistants, by, say, an inspection went to the State Inspectorate, but the assistant minister remained. Also, I have to say that you may have been, but I think I know something about the state administration because I've been through all the stairs, so I know the experience that was in 2010, 2011, at that point the ministry was the same, just a little different name, had in its portfolio and environmental protection, so it was significantly bigger than it was behind where it was divided, there were three state secretaries because they were state secretaries, before they became directors and there were six assistants, and the moment they went from assistants to directors there were 11 directors. So certain administrations were defined differently and 11 directors were, even not all managed to pass the recruitment process before the elections were, but rather, decided on another, some other modality. We just need, therefore, what I was saying at the beginning, to know what we want, if we want the models of some other countries, then the part that's being chosen, that's usually, which is, by the decision of the citizens, it's the minister and the officials and that we have the state administration, which is fast and efficient. It's interesting, you can make a comparison, it wasn't that far, in 2010, or, like, '11. How many former assistants have become directors? It'll be convenient to see how many assistants they'll become. And what's happening to you? So we've already been through this, regardless, can even come up with the same option, if he won't want to get his principal, who's the director and you and I know what he's going to do. They're going to make a new formation of the ministry to call a different individual administration or construction unit, this man is either going to stay for... They'll go back to the competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's not do crazy things, let's not do things that are already past and that have proved to be wrong. Let's try really, if we want to make a step, make a step, it's possible between the first and second readings. I know that when opposition gives something, even when the amendments you use are always rejected with the option that they are not acceptable try. Some experience people use and see really what it's about. This transformation, we don't have an assistant, we're going to have a director, so in principle, so, in one country, it's basically really working, but it works the way, the first time, after one option, another option will come and move on where this option has stopped and say, this is all good, we move on. It'll all make sense. Everyone who becomes a minister thinks life starts with him, with none of us starts life and doesn't end, but give this to the appeal, the projects that are good, the projects, let it move on. And in that sense, this whole thing together, it has some kind of fact. I have to admit they were often asked if I think, whether the minister should be a professional person or a politician. My experience, which I've been through all along, I think the ministers should be politicians, the profession certainly gives you an advantage, because a lot of things you know, but also, it's also a difficult element in all of this together. We're just the key question, we should ask, what do we want? If we want an efficient, fast, expeditionive, purposeful administration, then it's not this law. Then this law has to experience some others, and it's different to set itself up in general. The same way that what this law characterises, and this recently characterizes the main law, which we get is the following, goes formal in 2 readings, between first and second readings make some changes, each law has a bunch of rules to be passed. So, in principle, the law has relatively few articles, and the rules go beyond that and rules decide on a number of things, which is not at all possible to discuss in this Parliament. I'll look back because my time is running out. 47th, which speaks of employment, which is related to individual mandates. In the government where I was, we had this, and I'm an absolute population, and I appreciate that it's extremely good. It's good for people to come along with the minister to come and go. In my office there were two such people, who, along with my mandate, left, everything else I used to use existing resources from the ministry. But it's not possible for everyone to use it, and I think it's extremely good to be, for the simple reason, a little bit see some older demos, which happens when they're shifts. You look at the White House, out of the White House everyone leaves, when the president changes, but they have a different one, with the president leaving everyone, leaving the usual, I don't mean insulting the clerks, to everyone else. The minister must have people who are of maximum confidence to him, and it certainly isn't, if someone decided to reward someone, so put them in the cabinet, then you did the bear a favor. You should put yourself in a cabinet, that is, give yourself the opportunity to work in a cabinet with him, someone who's fast-expedited, who can mess up certain things that the minister doesn't need. I ask you nicely, therefore, in these discussions as usual in the Assembly, they are also working on the subject of sometimes discussing a subject that is, but sometimes not. Just listen to people who have experience, I've really been through all the stairs, from the lowest to the ministerial, and somehow I'm imagining that I know a lot about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138465	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas, a respected Velligai representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138466	Thank you, Vice President. Here, colleague Mrak Taritaš, you gave me actually one good comparison you said at the beginning of your presentation, so you mentioned that municipality, I think that Medvesčak was working, where citizens were, of course, from the area of today's City of Zagreb, can do all the services not being performed, i.e. all the services were provided there for them and the services they provided. It's also in the smaller environments, sometimes you're all of them, and you're actually doing it today, and actually in the centers of the former municipalities, that is, today they've become most of the cities. So what I think we should figure out which way we're going, whether we're going to keep this existing territorial structure of local self-government or we're going to go, we're going to develop these very city centers, that doesn't mean that the municipalities are being abolished, but it means one better, it actually means less red tape. It means less red tape and less employment, less staff and more efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138467	The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138468	Thank you very much. So I started my own exposure to the findings that we need to know what we want. When we know what we want, then it will be easier for us to make the rules that will answer that question properly. At this point we have 556 municipalities, towns, with the City of Zagreb having status and city, status and counties having 20 counties. So I'm kind of always comparing things with Scandinavian countries even though we're different mentalities, and we're a little different. Let's say Denmark was a country that had about so many different units of local self-government and it came back a little bit complicated, at one point it made a reform and it came, I think 101 or 103. Before we decided this, we had 101 municipalities with the town of Zagreb having 14, so it was 115 in total and we started with this and we made this tight as we have today and we certainly have all the problems with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138469	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138470	Dear colleagues, we all know that success goes at least when it comes to Croatia, mostly through political ties. You know well that in public, state services, you have spent your entire working life and for you a happy set of circumstances you have become Minister and replaced Cacic, Vrdoljak and the rest of the team. Your most important project was legalization. I'll tell you, just these days at the garret shop in Vinkovci and the service have returned full of unsettled cases of your legalization. People get warnings, they report to FINA, and I answer for myself, imagine I have three illegally built objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138471	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138472	Thank you very much. It's always interesting to me that a respected representative follows my life's path well, so I find it particularly interesting, but maybe following it before, got different things, might surprise him, but back to the subject of legalization that's not the subject of this law, but since it's a replica, I'll answer that. Legalization and returning something to the garland are two different things. It's obviously a little messed up. So garland and legalization don't have much touch. However, legalisation was one procedure or one project that proved precisely what decentralisation means. When it came to legalisation, legalisation was done by the county office or the offices of cities and funds that were related to legalisation were left where the illegal construction and development took place, some of the funds went to municipalities and cities in the area where the illegal facility was located, part of the office that handled it and part of the state for the construction of the cadastre and grantovnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138473	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker, please. I took your word, colleague Maras. ... No, I said the next points, I mean, now if you want me to make it clear. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, like this, I took your word, and that's where I stand for this point. I'll read again what the State Election Commission said. For you and for the others. The DIP is of the opinion that the emphasis on promotional messages and slogans in the assembly during the election promotion, contrary to the provision of the Finance Act for which an administrative penalty for the total loss of the cost of the election promotion is prescribed, Article 37(2). The financing law on what the DIP will take into account in the implementation of electoral promotion monitoring. Because of this, that is exactly what the president of the Parliament has reported you to the DIP as a representative of the SDP and yourself. So I'm standing by this that until the end of this point I took your word, after that, to the next point, it doesn't even occur to me that I'm actually allowing you to perform yours here as I would call it, the event is whether, therefore, I'm going to give you a word for other points, for this one not because I've said it, but for others as far as I'm concerned, have this until the DIP decision comes. ... We will not at all, you have announced an appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the committee will make its decision. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, Comrade Dark Taritash. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138474	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer to article 238, because you took away my ability to respond to Mr. Maras' replica, I was extremely interested in what kind of replica he has, and I wish I could answer that, but you are my own, I have no longer the possibility to answer to Mr. Maras's replica in accordance with my Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138475	Well, that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know that yourself, therefore, I see that you are smiling happily, therefore you know that it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Ostojić, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138476	Dear Vice President, Article 238 was injured because you are not the vice president or when we have the President of the Parliament, you are not the envoys or listeners of the DIP. This is the Parliament, the independent body in which they act on their own and we have to work on our Rules of Procedure. Thus, nothing unusual has happened here, Article 238 is perfectly clear and lists exactly what makes it possible for someone to take away the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138477	Look, interpreting the chairman is one thing, it may be, any parliamentary representative may have a different position and may complain about this interpretation of the Committee on the Constitution which you have done, okay. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138478	... The 236th has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you have not issued notice in the same way as you have warned fellow Members of Maras. [[Specially enabled.]] So he spoke twice, I point out that he spoke twice over, never got a warning. What's this all about? Because of the laptop and the same way he's been talking right now. [[Intruder Reiner: I will tell you very clearly...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138479	You've run out of time, for the same reason I told my colleagues that at the next point, I don't care, as far as I'm concerned, they can wrap themselves up with some poster and do whatever they want until the opinion of the DIP comes. So, here we are, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138480	Mr. Vice President, please, you have No, no, I don't want to do the circus, you have, you've now confessed [[Intruder: Don't do the circus here]] It's not a circus. [[You won't challenge me to go down the hair of your circus you're working.]] You yourself admit that you have two standards of conduct, one to me [[Intruder: Yes]] And second to his colleague, Stojić [[No, I said after.]] But he's in this wheel [[I said after this point, the punishment I already said.]] He's in this wheel [[Intruder: After this point...]] Then why did you give me a warning? [[Intruder:...you can do whatever you want, you can bring a 7x7 poster as far as I'm concerned here until the opinion of the Electoral Commission comes because I don't feel like...]] Why did you give me a warning, Mr. Vice President? [[In fact, you can afford to do a circus.]] Why did I get a warning? [[/Intruder: Here's a colleague of Shucker's.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138481	I explained it, if you can't figure it out, it's your problem again. Here you go, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. For the sake of all of us at the Assembly, I think this debate should begin with the quote of Art. 1. 3. which says that public administration affairs are the implementation of state policy, direct law enforcement, inspection, administrative supervision and other administrative, etc. Business. Why am I saying that? Because today, when we discuss the formation of a state administration, we show a fundamental disregard for the rules. So, we voted the Rules of Procedure in this House, mostly in the agreement. Today when we talk about forming a state administration, when we talk about how this state administration should function, some individuals show that law and rules should not be followed, and how serious is our debate today, and what kind of message are we sending to Croatian citizens? I'm asking everyone here a question. Because if people, ordinary people look, so look they can't agree upstairs about something they're alone... So how are they going to pass a law that they don't practically know how it works? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about this law, we need to start first, ask ourselves one question: do the provisions of this law allow what most MPs today in this assembly have been saying? They're making it happen. And what the colleagues of MOST and other political parties have said, simply certain provisions of this law are open that the state administration can be arranged just as best suited to Croatian citizens. And what may be Mr. Secretary of State's most controversial and leaving a large questionnaire in the air is the functioning of the state administration's office in the county. They were 98, not 2000, removed from the mayor's jurisdiction and the district offices were established by the county, on these district offices were put in charge and these offices remained, that all ministers know who had them, except the Ministry of Finance, we were always set up like this, the rest of the visit in the air. And what kind of person has a relationship with the mayor or mayor of the city in the county headquarters, so that office is also equipped and functioning etc. Because if these offices function the way it is in the existing law and this law stands, then it could not happen that in one city practically for the same or very similar object, the building permit is obtained within 15, 20 days, and the other is waiting for 300 or 400 days. And then we all get embarrassed here when Doing Business makes us think that we're like that. But in some town, some law firm said that a building permit needs, I know, 900 days and you're immediately rated as you're rated. So, does this law allow a particular ministry if it believes that certain jobs should be brought down to both the largest cities and the county, can the ministry do so by changing a certain law? You got it. It simply says in the law and stands and I don't see what is so controversial if the possibility is opened, it can't be prescribed until the last word what needs to be done, but it simply stands in the law. But what needs to be repeated over and over again, which is that citizens in the state administration think the way they meet her. And where do they meet with the government? Right in those offices of the state administration in the county, they come up there to solve their own problems and if there comes up with some problem that needs to be solved with a huho day, he's unhappy with the functioning of the state administration. But what is the elemental thing, the question is, does the head of the ministry know that this problem is happening down there? Why am I asking that question? For the simple reason that this system was set up vertically, if it had a connection, then he would know it, but since the system wasn't set up like that, then he has no idea about it. But does this law open? It's opening. And what may be most controversial to some, I don't think that's at all controversial, is that we already did it in 2010, if we're going to talk about professionalization and depolitisation of the state administration, you can professionalize something just with top players. You can't play champion league with a zone player, you can only play with top-notch professionals and if you translate that into state administration, then it's the same story. At the head of the state administration, only the most professional and capable people can be. So they're the ones who will, then in art. 3. it stands, to control the implementation of the law that we are passing here, they are the ones who will say, hey people, you have brought that law up, he is super on paper, but when we apply it on the ground, there are certain problems that are the essence of this system of state administration, because he will see that the citizens of Croatia, the businessmen are not satisfied with this implementation and I am happy with that change with the assistant to the director, that depolitisation, professionalization I am looking at exclusively in this way. Because I'm interested in the professionalization of the state administration, I'm not interested in any other way, but in a way that this administration is doing the right thing. Why do we care here we say that it is necessary to remove bureaucratic obstacles to Croatia's economic upturn, so all those who talk about it very often in this assembly should then say what should be changed in the system of state administration to remove these bureaucratic obstacles. Because these bureaucratic obstacles are also there, colleagues and colleagues of these 90 articles as far as they sound here, these are bureaucratic obstacles to you. With a series of those laws that we bring here. And is that how we discussed here today? Unfortunately, we didn't, we wanted to convince some, some of them because they had abolished the principals, so they called the assistants by force to say the assistants were the best thing. Those who tried with the directors, including myself, and I want to make every effort to say that it may be the best thing, but what was, in 2010, was the step, and we left it today would have upgraded, but we are hoping that because someone returned it in 2012 to the starting position today we have no step, but again we are doing the first step, and we will be doing the upgrade I hope in some future years. And what Mr. Secretary of State might need on the second reading is that this law we discussed today as the first item of the agenda and this law we are now discussing to unite them. Because it's just a subject that's connected to each other and it's best to discuss them because unfortunately we've been chasing both assistants and directors all morning, which is with each other. So, the state administration and I'm going to end it, you have to say how many people in the state administration in the Republic of Croatia, let's ignore the public administration, and you know what public administration is. Let's get the army out of here, let's get the police out of here and get to 30,000 people, that's the government of the Republic of Croatia. And when we count the employees of the county and the cities, we come to 40 and some more thousands of people. And that's that administrative potential of the Republic of Croatia, that's something, and I think it's either in this or in another law that needs to be installed, which is the education and education of these people. Management is a science, written one law, being a normist, it's the same as being a great engineer of electrical engineering, an informer or something else. The law can only be written by people who know it. normatives, but if we don't educate them, we won't even have them, and we here today are not talking about education at all, we're not talking about technical support, we're not talking about sending them out, we might see how some others work, we unfortunately didn't talk about it today, but the state administration makes living people, make our fellow citizens, make them our colleagues and they are the face and face of every government at the end and the Croatian Parliament, because ultimately all the laws are passed by this Croatian Parliament. So, colleagues and colleagues when we talk about these people, these are honest and correct people in every crop there are weeds, but I'm saying if we locate the problem the right way, then we'll solve it, but if we're going to deal with politics and self-provoking as it happens today in this assembly, then unfortunately we won't solve anything, and we're going to pass an extremely bad law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138483	Thank you very much, we'll finish the replicas first, and then we'll go as agreed on the amendment. We have a replica of the first respected representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138484	Dear colleague Schuker, I listened to you in the presentation and I heard you spoke about the state administration's office and the minister's jurisdiction over them, and then also efficiency related to the county and their mayor in power. Do you think that Croatia should take a step forward and actually through the system of e-Citizens and through the system of e-business actually do these building permits and all other requirements through which citizens should communicate by electronic means, and in this way it doesn't really matter whether the minister or mayor is vertical. To contribute to the professionalization of these requirements.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138485	Dear colleague Chikotić...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138486	I can give you the first word of my colleague Shuker, please, here's my colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138487	I apologize, dear colleague Chikotic. I gave the answer to that question somewhere in 2007, in 2008 when I passed the Law on Personal Identification. Personal identification number is a prerequisite for what you're talking about, then the information of the state administration, the connection, and then everything you've been saying can be implemented. Without that I.D. that's clear and recognizable and not saying you can't do anything about it, I gave my answer to your question a long time ago, so I agree with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138488	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138489	Dear counterpart Schuker Article 12 of this proposal of the Law on the State Administration System further confirms my hunch of waking up about the police state under the control of Prime Minister Plenkovic. It is clear to me that Mr Plenkovic, according to this published book of '89, was inspired by the works of Edward Kardeli, but I do not understand that in the modern Croatian state, such suggestions are made to agree to the restriction of freedom and the rights of natural persons if it is necessary to achieve the law of the established purpose. What do you think of this fellow Shucker? Are you inspired by Mr. Kardelj or this one you disagree with Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mr. Kusčević?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138490	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138491	I am only inspired by the Croatian Constitution, and if you had read the Croatian Constitution then you would have found this inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138492	The next replica is the respected MP Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138493	Thank you, Vice President, my colleague Shucker, at the beginning when you opened the topic, then you touched us here in the assembly, when we can't agree on some laws, and we have a regulation on how we should behave, that's the Rules of Procedure. But will you agree with me, so next to the Rules of Procedure, there's something besides the laws that we're passing that each of us should bring here to the assembly, which is primarily home education, because that should be some kind of guidance, the thought of guidance, our functioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138494	Thank you very much. Before you,...... And the answer, the esteemed counsel of Shucker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138495	Coliar Batinic, today we witnessed the desavuation of the DIP, institutions that we chose by inter-party agreement of the opposition and the ruling to lead and oversee the elections. Among other things, to oversee and prescribe what is most important, which is the most controversial, which is the financing of political parties and political campaigns. So we denied them today what they said and recommended disabling them and sent a bad message. Do we, as the supreme, legislative body in this country, have the right to do so? Is that what we have as citizens, as human rights? We don't. Are we asking ourselves how colleagues in the DIP feel about any other statement if we deny it today? Some things may not have gone the way they did, but they clearly gave their opinion on it. So that's why I started my argument with the quote. I'm just asking you, half a sentence with an article 3 quote just for the sake of... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138496	My friend Shuker, you were saying... about a subject that's not related to this one, so please don't make it seem any more. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138497	Yes, the chairman you reacted, but I must react, Article 238, my colleague Schucker spoke about the DIP on the Law on the Financing of Election Promotion, and it is he and his party, who were here at midnight to come and vote in order to secure themselves for election promotion of the 4.5 million kuna to watch their heads in pre-election videos on television and from jumbo posters.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138498	Okay, but now you've abused the institution of the Rules of Procedure, too, so please let's stop with these abuses of the Rules of Procedure. They look at us and welcome them to students and students from the University of VERN from Zagreb, so let us behave accordingly. ... So they don't think the country's run by some strange people. [[Applause.]] Here's what we're going to do, as we agreed, now we're going to stop at this point, we're going to continue with it later, of course. Don't let my colleague Zekanovic look at me so scary, we'll continue it, without worry, we'll continue it now, and so we agreed yesterday that we'll join a statement on the amendments. Okay, now that we've finished discussing the amendments, we will continue with individual discussions on the previous point, the first should be a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, here he comes as lightning. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138500	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues, so we're talking about another reform here. In fact, today we have two reforms on the agenda. One reform has been the one since this morning where we talked about what the assistants will be called, directors and administration, I speak, I mean the assistants in the ministries, and this second reform is that we will no longer have the offices of the state administration because we will have them in a reduced volume or that these jobs will be done by the county. And now, every government has some reason to even go into this kind of reform. I have to admit, I don't see any reason for this, no matter what I read the law, and I listened very closely to you at this morning's exposure and this afternoon's, I didn't see that savings space. You mentioned 10 million kunas, so maybe the only reason is you 10 million kunas, especially with this first law as much as possible when the official over, or the official, then has those six months or 12 months of some kind, so he doesn't have to anymore, he gets the receipts. But if it's the director of the administration and in these civil servants, you're more to him, he works forever, right? He works forever, and then if you replace him because you, I hope the assistants are replaced because they're not good, which... to do their job, which doesn't match the government, and then it'll happen that he'll sue the state, so you'll have lawsuits. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you have people at a very high hierarchy in the ministries, so I don't see from that side of the savings. And on the other hand, I think what you're saying is that before that it's chosen by the government, and that it's now going to be transparent, or it's going to be chosen by competition. And who will decide, or who will be in the commission that decides to choose candidates? So again, the people who are delegated from politics, the people of the ministry, that's how it's gonna be. So, a nice example was given by a colleague, I don't know, if it was Bauk or who, he said it was actually one such transition, so then all the assistants, 99% of them became directors of the administration. So it's not possible that all 99% of them, let's say 100, that they were all perfectly suited to the competition and were the best candidates. And I'm just curious right now, is this where it's going to happen? So, will they all be the best candidates in the public competition? It's possible that not all of them will, because in fact, these are always the kind of ones that are working to get rid of some who are there, so they're going to make one, formally one contest to get rid of some, some assistants who are no longer in the mercy of the great leader. But about that, by that. But it's very interesting that in all the institutions of the state, and I'm talking about the ministries first of all, the top of the pyramid that decides to form a commission that will conduct the competition are delegated by politics. So no longer, the highest policy is decided, and this is the prime minister and the government directly, but indirectly. He will no longer be in the government, we will appoint Matu Matić as an assistant, but then Plenkovic will tell the minister and let's get him to the principal's job for this and that. And that's how it is, but the public still needs to know. I know that every government ever does, it's become common, and we're, unfortunately, used to it, but here I like to say it here, because it's because of that kind of human policy, and that's where we are. I'm not saying, there are some in the ministries and great people who come with a political card of big parties, so they get a job, so they do a good job, there's that, and I really know a few who do a great job, and they're really jealous and responsible. Yet, the vast majority of these people came solely because they are alike, and they are not capable and the only task being at work is to be like, not capable. And then we wonder why we have one demographic, economic cataclysm, disaster in our country, and we have it because of this key. I know these words of mine in this half-empty assembly won't make a difference. However, I would like you to, here it may be for the secretary of state to stay somewhere, to memorialize them, remember, so when you pass this law tomorrow, because I will not vote for it, of course, to make sure that in these committees, as you will call them to choose candidates, you put the right people, to respect the legal conditions, for example. If we have a defender not to be some formal test with already agreed questions, but that the defender really has a priority, if he has a top priority under the law and then gets the best personnel, because long-term state secretaries and you'll be better both for all of us and for the whole country. As far as this second law is concerned, it's now the state administration, and later it's going to be a county, it doesn't make any difference defacto. I don't really see the difference here, I'm going to say specifically in my Sibenik it's even about people who are physically located in the same building, so the job description is the same, now it's being transferred to the county, one cosmetic, so change. I'm going to compare it to that change that happened through the merger agencies into several of them, so it's been abolished, how much, 20 agencies have formally been abolished, no job has been abolished, and that's a very interesting fact. The agencies connect, the jobs are equal, and we in the Republic of Croatia are getting smaller and smaller, so we have a growth of bureaucratic apparatus from day to day, and there are fewer and fewer of us. In the end, we'll have to import migrants, for example. Or any outsider who works for us in the state administration because in one 50 years. It will absolutely all be members of one party, we will no longer have anyone to work with, no, it's a simple logic, but it is. So you know yourself that, unfortunately I'll say, I'm sorry to say, Prime Minister Plenkovic, so your government, it's got a state apparatus never bigger, state secretary, assistant, now it's gonna be management directors, it's never been, ever again, and it's not good. If the same job could be equally bad, I'll say, I'll do it at the time of Milanovic, so you don't need to be for a third more people on salaries 15, 20.000,00 kn, that's not good. If this is the way Prime Minister Plenkovic wants to buy strength and support in his party, it is not a good way. I think he could better buy support in his party through a credible policy of Christian Democrats as he says fellow Stier, which is not. So he gave up what HDZ was and is trying to secure his position through that team of 15 grand, the more there are, he's tighter and it's wrong and it has to change. So, I believe that these laws are both cosmetics, they will not bring savings, and they will give their own alibis and pirates to Prime Minister Plenkovic to work on cutting machines, and he would like to hear numbers, how many people are working in the ministry today and how many have worked, there are more and more and more, and in fact that is one trend as well as in the EU. And in the EU today there are, how many, they're talking about 50,000 people in Brussels, now they're talking about 100,000 officials, let's wait until we get to 200, we won't wait long. That's the trend, and that's not a good trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138501	Next individual debates by respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138502	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, honourable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, so here we have today a proposal of the Law on the System of State Administration in the first reading in this assembly and I am convinced that the numerous proposals and remarks we could hear today during the debate on the parliamentary committees that the motion of the Ministry of Administration will also consider those proposals that are both rational and can bring more functionality, that they will be adopted. In fact, the existing system of state administration has proved both hierarchical and functionally illogical. Namely, here is a colleague, Zekanovic, who said, in our Sibenik-Knin County it really is the same building, and then on the second floor we have an office for the economy that is within the county services, and above that we have a new office for the economy that is within the office of the state administration, so the office for tourism and so on. And it's time and this has been talked about by the previous governments. However, this very government and this ministry have decided to cut and create a system that will be much more functional and rational. If we talk about the acts within which the ministry could and should be conducted, we see that for example. The county office for spatial planning and construction dropped permits and dropped permits for, I don't know, strong and large systems of construction of the sewer system, for example. Srima-Vodice-Tribunj which includes a system for which it will be authorised and the territory of the town of Vodice and the municipality of Tribunj, so I don't know, a cleaning device, a hotel capacity with 5 stars that includes hundreds of new beds, and then we have to go to the office of the state administration to get a solution for work, approval for one room rental, roasting popcorn, renting deck chairs, etc. And I support this proposal of the Law on the State Administration System, which goes in that direction, to take over the county's particular affairs, that is, all the affairs of the state administration. However, there are articles of the law that should still be considered in what way we might avoid some tomorrow, some in the future problems above all, so that our counties do not get into financial problems. Like that. Article 67 says the counties are taken over by civil servants including heads of state who are found in the performance of the tasks entrusted to them, civil servants who are found in the performance of general financial and administrative affairs, subsistences and relatively entrusted jobs, equipment, writing and other documentation, means of work, financial resources and the rights and obligations of local government offices. Article 3 also states that they all continue to carry out the work on which they have been found and have the right to pay according to so far's solutions or work contracts. Here, I will from my experience, I have been a timely advisor in the office of the state administration with high professional training, 15 years of work experience, 3 children, the trips of Vodice – Sibenik and then a warm meal of only 5,000 kuna of personal income. I don't know, the number of high-skill trainings and the like is certainly not below 8,000 kuna. If it's about the tenants, I also think that there are very big differences, and now I wonder how this relationship will be regulated if one means cleaning woman should have 3,000 kuna salaries because she's been taken over from the state administration's office, and the other one that's worked within county services so far will have a higher salary, and then when one of them is going to be sick, I don't know God's family and so on whether she'll refuse to keep those other rooms and the like, I think there might be a lot of problems, so that this should be considered, I don't think it't think it's fair for both of them to have the same employer, means county, and have different personal incomes, regardless of what they're up to do, and very similar jobs. Today, we heard criticism and the counties often point out that when taking over administrative departments for spatial planning and construction that they also received some funds for the first time, later or later, and that this is essentially a bad experience of counties when it comes to taking over, taking jobs from the state level. I would say one thing on this occasion: I think a very good experience of the relationship between the county and the town of Vodice. Namely, when this takeover occurred, of course, that the county could not increase the number of employees, the town of Vodice that we have in the interest of getting the permits out of our city's area as soon as possible so that we could charge a municipal contribution, later charge a municipal fee, get new beds for renting or our fellow citizens of the family house, we also decided to pay 2 employees or their personal incomes we finance and pay to the county so that only 2 employees work the territory of the town of Vodice. I think cities and municipalities could reach for this model, especially if we know that with the latest tax reform package, the new Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government allowed the state to give up nearly 2 billion kunas in favour of them, so here's a chance for them to show their understanding and be the ones who will co-finance certain jobs they care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138503	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138504	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague you mentioned your experience in your presentation. So, your experience which has a lot of them where pay gaps are between whether you work in the state administration office or when you cross over and work in the city and county. I'm kind of allowing myself to say a sentence more than I need to. So those who work with the parties, who all the time had less wages than those who didn't work with the parties that was an exodus. What we should somehow try to balance this story with each law for a simple reason because working with parties is not easy work. So, you have to have a man at the door who comes to you and says I have to get a license because I'm gonna fail a loan or something. This, of course, is not possible to define, but somewhere at the end of your debate, you were talking about going and a set of tax laws, and that should be taken into account when it comes to publishing. Permission, it's happening in the area of the municipalities and cities, and it has to be common interest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138505	Thank you. Dear representative Juričev-Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138506	Thank you very much, so, colleagues Mrak-Taritash, I have just brought here today, which would say a positive example of the relationship between the town of Vodice and the county, and this time again, I call on the cities and municipalities to extend their hands to their counties, not only to stand by and wait for their county to drop as much permits in their area as possible, and they are the ones who collect more funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138507	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138508	Thank you very much, Vice President, you have spoken to your esteemed colleagues about the takeover of employees by the state administration's office who are now employees of the state administration's office, by the county and any problems that could arise because of unequal salaries. Let's remember that we had a similar situation a few years ago when we were taking over employees from local self-government units who were working on permits. In fact, it happened that all these people went to higher wages, so this regulation now regulates the moment of takeover, which means that the legal sequence that takes them takes them over, however, all units of local self-government i.e. Countys will have to systematise their rules in the internal order of new jobs according to the applicable Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, so I believe that all these employees will actually go to higher wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138509	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jurčev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138510	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, so true, it is the employees of the state administration's office who now look forward to this law with impatience to finally become employees of the county and all expect greater personal incomes and I think few of them will decide to take the severance and go home to what the proposer foresees and this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138511	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Stjepan Curaj, gone, lost his right to speak, and the following would be spoken by respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138512	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. If I am not mistaken this law on the assumption that we will pass it will be the third law on the state administration system of Croatia's independence. It is a regulation that has a special place in the Croatian legal order and is characterized by the property of society. To express myself in a picturesque language of anatomy, this law is the skeleton around which the tissue of the state administration system in the Republic of Croatia is entangled. It is important that we carefully and thoroughly discuss it and try to strike the foundations of a new concept of state administration, those who, all the time, advocate my colleagues and I as a service of citizens, as a service of investor entrepreneurs who will function without the influence of politics, regardless of who behaves in the Republic and of course who will be the protector of legality, which is not often the case. And that's why I went with the first replica this morning about this fact where we don't have depoliticization but politicization of the state administration. At first, I will say that this bill does not meet such high criteria, I am not saying that as an expert because I am not or as some authority for public or state administration, but as someone who sees this whole thing from the perspective of an ordinary, average man. The solutions that are presented to us in this law as new and lifesaving, we have already applied in our system of state administration, and we have not really celebrated in this fellow Shuker. So the Croatian state administration among citizens and we all know it enjoys low or no trust, the investor's entrepreneurs mark it as one of the main obstacles to business in Croatia, and it should not be mentioned at all that prevailing impression or attitude to work in our entire state administration or that political or party staffing is in place. These are facts that are difficult to reprove and we don't need to hide from. I have carefully and with great interest studied this bill, its reasoning. As the biggest newspaper I'd single out the following points. Shutting down the state administration's office in the counties as state administration's first-degree bodies and transferring business from their districts to their districts. The abolition of the ministerial assistant's duties and their replacement to management officials, directors of the administration, were also discussed by a colleague, Podolnjak, in his debate. The reintroduction of the employment system according to the principle of so-called Revolving the doorway for cabinet staff in some state bodies and ministries. I'm going to use this debate of mys for a few sentences on each of the topics mentioned. So I followed with the attention of the media announcement of government officials and the Ministry of Administration who very comprehensively exposed the plan to shut down the state administration's office in the county. The figures were used, and it was said that 20 of these offices would be shut down by shutting down and the number of state officials. There was also a mention of the retirement of 50 shipping officers. These are all very specific figures. Even the minister was so honest somewhere, he admitted that the general cost of these officers would be higher than it has been so far. It is a simple consequence of the fact that the salaries of officials in our counties are on average higher than the salaries of civil servants who have received them so far from the state budget. But the kind of change that you propose puts before our business inefficient state administration great challenges, and in that sense I have several questions. My first question is very specific and I ask you to answer it. It's about monitoring the legality of the general acts of local self-government. According to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the administration of state administrations in the counties, i.e. their presidents as head of the office so far were the first control mechanism for the legality of acts of local self-government. Who will it be after this law is passed? Will it be the mayors? Secondly, my question concerns the harmonisation of labour practices of the county, which will de facto become first-degree bodies of the state administration in some jobs. It is likely that the problem has also been simplified so far, but the administration offices in the county have not enjoyed certain independence and independence as guaranteed to local and regional self-government units. State administrations as a form of deconcentration of jurisdiction were nevertheless hierarchicalally subject to orders and instructions from the central authorities of the state administration. I think we could find ourselves in big trouble with regard to equality of conduct from county to county. Finally, we come to the main issue, what legal status and treatment will be in the architecture of the state, whether we call them units of regional self-government or they will play the role they were meant for in the beginning of the millennium to be units of regional self-government as well as state administration as it was. The second topic I want to talk about is the announced alleged depolitisation of the state administration, it is a proposal to abolish the ministerial posts of ministerial assistants and to rule instead of them by state officials, directors of the administration. And this proposal is a recycling of a model that already existed in Croatian practice. This concept was introduced in time by Sanader and history and experience tells us how it ended. As a result, I am not only skeptical of your claims about the alleged depoliticalisation of the state administration, but I believe that the proposed solution is exactly the direction towards legalisation of politicisation. I'm also asking you not to sell stories of heavy savings due to the removal of 90 posts because also the newly appointed directors of the administration will work for high wages, so they will certainly not volunteer. Finally, I would like to comment on the reintroduction of the re-introduction of the door model by which the cabinets of top state officials, therefore the Prime Minister, the minister, will bring new people with special privileged status to the cabinets of state officials, although many have so far commented on this new proposal and even some colleagues in the opposition agreed with him, I cannot support it, I will make arguments against this model. First of all, at the conceptual level, this employment model represents nothing more than the creation of parallel structures of power and influence at the top of the state government, in the cabinets of the most powerful people in the country, the highest state officials. This and this model that you're proposing is a corruption and security risk for the state and it legalizes the infiltration of party and interest groups into the state administration system. Why am I saying that? First of all, the authorities of the state administration are currently organized as a strict hierarchy which is headed by a political official. He manages the organisation made up of civil servants, professionals who, in order to do their job, would have to meet some formal assumptions and have some specific knowledge. State officials, in addition to their rights, also have a number of obligations prescribed by specific laws and that is done for some purpose and they are subject to a number of restrictions, for example, public officials are obliged to act under the law, they are responsible for their actions, the results of the work, they are obliged to pursue the objectives set, they are prohibited from discriminating or authorising any person on any basis. So it's forbidden for civil servants to receive gifts, they're obliged to keep official secrets and citizen information. They have an obligation to refuse orders of superiors that would be illegal. Furthermore, it is prohibited for civil servants to open a craft or a company in the field of activity in which they are employed as officials and must also report to a superior any possible conflict of interest in which they may be found and if a civil servant injures any of those obligations, he shall be responsible for his proceedings in the disciplinary procedure. And what is proposed by this law? Introduce a special category of employees who do not have such strict and legal obligations and duties and who for their work correspond exclusively to the head of the body, the prime minister, the President of the Parliament or the individual minister, and who will have access to privileged information from the system of state administration, data on citizens and legal persons and their requirements without being subject to an easy nor to the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Gentlemen, by ruling, these new people in the cabinets won't be bound by anything, working outside and beyond the law, I want to warn you that it won't end well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138513	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138514	Thank you very much. The respected counterpart of Grmoja, therefore, has no fear, will not have the mayors oversee the acts of units of local self-government but the central body of the state administration as it says in the law, which is the Ministry of Administration. Furthermore, as for your comments regarding future directors or the abolition of assistants, look, I would like to draw a parallel with what we now have in local units, and here we have the headmasters who were once appointed by the mayor or mayor, and now they've been actually officials for quite a long time. Why? So they're professionals and local self-government units are headed by the department of professionals. The same thing we are now introducing to the state and I think there should be no fear that it will not be good but rather, professionalization is being introduced and I think it will certainly give good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138515	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138516	You've seen that you've now become involved in a situation where you're saying that here at the director's office you have this direction of professionalization and I've warned you that with this revolving door you're opening exactly one opposite process where you have no professionalization within the system of state administration, but you're introducing people who are not subject to any law. ... It matters because you see that the concept that you claim to apply to the law, you don't apply to all levels in the same way. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And that's what's problematic, I warned you here that this wasn't going to end well. So, as far as the legal provisions themselves are concerned, instead of exhaustively prescribing obligations and restrictions for these new employees, you've been dealing with how to provide them with as many rights as possible, and that's what's problematic about this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138517	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138518	Thank you, Vice President. For years, fellow Grmoi, it should be fair to say that in the offices of the state administration, officials and tenants carry the burden of the recession crisis and that their personal incomes were lagging behind for the growth of living costs and I must say that they had material and technical conditions worse than the officials in cities, counties, etc., and they could neither progress in the profession nor have been rewarded by the head of the body if they do not work, there are also people who want to work there and who want to be at the service of our citizens and expect much of this transition from the state administration's office to the county but then expect that for the same same professional training and for the same or similar workplace, they get the same personal income. This proposal has not been resolved, neither has it been settled with the county, who will pay these personal incomes, the county does not have enough of that money to cover it and not many of these officials will retire because they have been underpaid for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138519	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138520	So none of us are against people doing certain jobs being adequately paid. This is about us having a story, selling God to us about some rationalization, and actually from that rationalization, it's gonna be nothing. So, don't sell us the story, don't sell us the story of rationalization, of depoliticization, when we see that this isn't happening, or of some professionalization, when here, I've now explained here what's going to happen and what's actually going to happen. We will have Kopalov's men and Plenkovic's men in every ministry, one parallel structure that will oversee every minister, that is, and that will be supervised by the vice president here at HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138521	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138522	Thank you very much. My colleague Grumo, so here we had, HS for 20 days discussed how many laws that Andrija Mikulić, lex Mikulić law, could take over the pure party functioning of the most important in terms of inspection and so that he could control that inspection, HDZ is the usual rule and way to function. And I'd like them to go down to see if the Debeljak giant has any environmental permits, what goes into the Krka River from where the Sibenik-Knin County is powered, and where this means, oily, lukewarm goes to the Krka National Park, but it can't even react to this new director if she has two IDs, HNS and HDZ, so she doesn't know who she's going to ask sooner, right? And while the person who had the status of counsel, for two years she was in the Homeland War on the first lines and She's a professional, they haven't received... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138523	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138524	So it is clear how the system of state administration in the Republic of Croatia works, how all institutions operate and that we have a clean politicisation in place. Here, you've set a good example, so, in choosing some place, here in Krka National Park, a woman who has two IDs has not been chosen, a doctor of science who has a war route and this shows what HDZ's attitude is and to defenders, to people with qualifications, means, and it happens everywhere, it's not just the case in Krka National Park and we see this pollution, you think they care about what's polluted water? So they don't care, they don't care about HDZ MPs from that constituency, they don't care about their candidates in the European elections, not Branko, not the others. We know that's the way it is. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138525	Now, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Nikola Grmoy, will speak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138526	In this individual debate, I looked back on the law itself, and now I'm going to look back on this article. 12. So, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not reveal the identity of the government's representatives responsible for the proposal of the State Administration System Act, so if he hadn't discovered it, we could have written it. The 12th bill of law itself concluded that to present such a text is an ideal person exactly Minister Lovre Kuščević and I am sorry that he did not come here. In Croatian history, the man will remain remembered for the successful implementation of a political decision on the illegal liquidation of the democratic will of the Croatian people expressed by collecting the necessary number of signatures for the referendum on the change of the electoral system. Namely, art. The 12th proposal of the Law on the State Administration System, as I told my colleague Shucker in the Replica, further confirms my hunch of waking up in the police state under the management of Prime Minister Plenkovic and his associates ready to return to the Croatian society management methods from the defeated non-democratic system. I told my colleague Shuker that it was clear to me that Mr Plenkovic, according to his published 89 book, was inspired by the works of Edward Cardell, as well as other totalitarian ideologists. But then ideologies should not reflect in today's proposals for the law of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, according to the text of Art. The 12th draft law requires HS MPs to agree to restrict the freedom and rights of natural persons if necessary in order to achieve the law of the intended purpose. Dear fellow MPs, please read the article carefully. 12. and make sure the text is signed by the prime minister of the state who paid an expensive price for the exercise of freedom and the rights of its citizens. The freedoms and rights of Croatian citizens are protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 16 and under the Constitution, freedoms and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, as well as legal order, public morality and health. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall not allow the restriction of the rights and freedom of natural persons if necessary to achieve the purpose laid down by any law, nor by the purpose of Kushtevic's Law on the system of state administration. I remind you, Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Kuščević are trained lawyers. According to the proposal of this law, the purpose of the state administration system is, among other things, to carry out the affairs of the state administration effectively, and in these matters, the bill includes European affairs, for example, as well as the representation of the Republic of Croatia in EU bodies. The restriction of freedom and the rights of Croatian citizens in the implementation of European affairs or in achieving some other law established purpose is a direct violation of the Constitution which leaves a wide range of space for the self-will of the regime and state repression. The will of the regime was applied by fellow Schuker in the same way as the broad interpretation of the law in order to limit freedom and the rights of citizens by the former communist regime, so-called. rubber art. The 133 criminal law of Yugoslavia, which allowed the then repressive system, has lawfully persecuted citizens of the accused, for example, for the malicious and untrue display of the country's social political opportunity. I would like to remind you that during the term of office, the diameter of Plenkovic has already been struck by several blows against constitutional freedoms and the rights of Croatian citizens, such as an unscrupulous police incursion in the newsroom, according to a political order. Mr Jandrokovic, the chief secretary of HDZ, also attacked constitutional freedoms and rights by sending a letter with a form, which the members of the party were to sign and commit to silence before state institutions. Constitutional freedoms and rights are protected by the European Convention, for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, it has decided to violate even the candidate of the Republic of Croatia, for the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Minister Pejcinović Buric, when she adopted a new rule, under which she forbade the employees of the ministry even to write on social networks. And that's what you're going to do here in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138527	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. Let's not throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138528	Proposal for a State Administration System Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 617th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, firstly, the proposal for a Law on the System of State Administration and other objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 81 for, 17 abstentions and 13 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138529	In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we conduct a joint discussion on the following two points. These are: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on Defence Cooperation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 613 - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on mutual defence cooperation, second reading, P.Z. No. 614 Do you agree with this proposal? You're against it? Shall we vote on that then? Please. Who's in favor of a united debate? I estimate he got most of it. Yeah, well, I counted, 6 is against, everyone else is. ... The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207 And the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its A. Rules of Procedure, it is prescribed that, under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts are adopted as a rule in a single reading. Let's calm down, please. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Honored Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138530	... Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] Honorable ladies of Parliament's attorneys and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys. You have before you laws confirming the Framework Agreements on Defence Cooperation, with two friendly countries, the Kingdom of Morocco and the Republic of Poland. With the Kingdom of Mark, so far the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence have not had a signed cooperation agreement and the adoption of the law creates an international legal framework for cooperation in the area of common interest in defence and how it is implemented. The Framework Agreement was signed in Rabat on 8 February and signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign and European Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric. With the Republic of Poland, however, the situation was different, with the Republic of Poland and so far there was an agreement on co-operation, but at the level of the ministries, therefore, was not an interstate agreement and what should be pointed out here, that this is one of the strategic ones, said the Croatian defence partner and so far were more than good relations, in all areas and especially in the area of defence and adoption of this law, would also create international legal assumptions that this cooperation, which has so far been excellent, has been further advanced. The Framework Agreement with the Republic of Poland was signed in January 2019 by the Polish Defence Minister on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence. As these relations between Poland and the Republic of Croatia are otherwise very developed and particularly in the area of defence, the best information is that in the Republic of Poland, NATO is currently active... A frontal presence, a stand-alone battle with 80 members of the Croatian Army. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What should also be pointed out in particular that the adoption and adoption of these laws does not require any additional funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget, as they are secured through regular activities of the Ministry of Defence. So he would say about 2 technical laws, the Republic of Croatia, with many states either at government level or, interstate, framework agreements on co-operation, or at the level of the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, there are such or similar framework agreements with 41 countries in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138531	Thank you very much, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138532	Thank you, Vice President. Well, distinguished secretary of state, we from HSS and myself personally support all activities of the Republic of Croatia to strengthen the defence security of the Republic of Croatia, the security of our citizens, and on the other hand, these agreements will probably open up a space for cooperation in economic terms and especially for the defence industry. And I have answered the replica to warn our friendly EU member Poland that it must not happen that its institutions have failed and they have failed because their official institutions from veterinary inspection, sanitary, etc. have allowed the export of unhealthy meat from slaughterhouses that have come to Croatia and our system has failed because the post-festum has been denied only when Slovenia and journalists have informed us that some of this is possible and that this does not contribute to good cooperation in Croatia, we must trust in their institutions, but also we also respect our wish that we want to live in a healthy and quality way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138533	Thanks, it wasn't exactly about the defense, but good. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138534	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you said that already, the Croatian Army participates... Seems to me to have a frontal presence at the Russian border, if I don't agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tell me, and how many of our soldiers, because we didn't even accept the Marrakech treaty, we accepted the Marrakech compact, how many of our soldiers were hired to help the police control our front border from incursion, I don't know who? Do you have that number maybe, that's very, very interesting to me? And my colleagues would say that it's not the Poles who blame us for the milking cows and sending us the Croats, but the import lobbys that raise the money on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138535	Thank you. We're not talking about broken cows, we're talking about this, about defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138536	I must confess, Mr. Bulj, that I did not understand your question, is it a question of how many Croatian soldiers are engaged in protecting our borders? At the moment, no soldiers are engaged in guarding our borders. This is not an obligation by the Croatian military, although the law allows the Croatian Army to assist the police responsible for the protection of the borders of the Republic of Croatia, so it is allowed to assist police in the control of state borders.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138537	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening the debate, so the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be spoken by the esteemed representative Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138538	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The HDZ Club will support both legislative proposals and the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation, the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Poland on mutual defence cooperation and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on Defence Cooperation. The good relationship between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Poland in defence is a continuation of good co-operation between the two countries, in other areas of bilateral cooperation and joint efforts to build peace and mutual trust. So far, co-operation in the area of defence has been achieved on the basis of the Agreement on Military Cooperation between the Ministry of Defence of the Two States of October 1998. Following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into NATO and the EU, the number of activities requires the conclusion of an international contract on mutual defence co-operation. The framework agreement was signed in Zagreb on 14 January this year. Article 3 of this Act sets out areas of cooperation and will address the application of military communications and information systems, the application of scientific research for the needs of armed forces, combat search and rescue, defence policy and planning, logistic support to the Armed Forces, military encryption, military education, military engineering, military police, military history and military museums, military infrastructure, military health and health support, military... quality control and codification, military operations abroad, military journalism and public relations, military psychological operations, military care, military training and military training, military transport at all levels, protection against chemical, biological and nuclear weapons, protection of the natural environment in connection with pollution resulting from military operations, research, development, production and procurement of military equipment and defence industrial cooperation, special forces operations, military intelligence and electronic warfare. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bodies responsible for the implementation of this Framework Agreement shall be the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Minister of Economic Development of the Republic of Poland on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funding from the state budget, since cooperation will take place through the regular activities of the Ministry of Defence. When we talk about cooperation with Morocco, I stress that the decision to initiate the framework agreement procedure was made on 27 July 2017 and the report on the guiding negotiations for adoption on 7 February 2019. In addition, Article 2 of the Law in question lays down the framework of military and technical cooperation between the two parties in the following areas: education and military training, defence industry, maintenance of aircraft and other military equipment, military health, pension operations, crisis management, military history, archives and museums and any other area identified by common agreement with the aim of ensuring the effective application of the provisions of this Agreement will establish a mixed commission, a military commission that will meet whenever necessary for... a request from one of the parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore believe that both laws are good, that they contribute to the improvement of cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and these countries, not only in defence but also in general, and therefore I propose to support them, and the HDZ Representatives' Club will certainly support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138539	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and the SNAGA, a respected representative, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, is not there, losing his right to speak. So the next Club of Representatives will be the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU, on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this is certainly a good thing and cooperation with both Morocco and Poland, although, as the secretary of state said, something is different here content. With Poland, since we are both in NATO and the EU and the OSCE, we already have very intensive cooperation in different areas, and here another 8 areas are highlighted as specific areas where cooperation will develop and there is nothing to say. It is, of course, under military cooperation, but it is over, I would say the same, if not more significant de facto interstate or diplomatic co-operation, so foreign policy cooperation and through this form of military cooperation are improving, or the general relations between the two countries that are both members of both military and political, the same military and political alliances, therefore certainly positive and we will support it. I would like to say a few words about Morocco since, of course, we are neither in the EU nor in Morocco, although Morocco is the only country that has effectively harmonised some of its laws with EU directives and rules, precisely to facilitate trade and any other co-operation between Morocco and the EU. With Morocco, we started to develop diplomatic and political relations earlier as one of them, so I would dare say, the most stable or certainly among several of the most stable countries of Sj. Africa, which from that point of view showed even in those difficult days, so-called. The Arab spring, i.e. the turmoil on the southern coast of the Mediterranean, showed quite a high dose and stability and possibility of inclusion, so to speak, of various political views and, in a way, relatively calmly survived that period and continued to function normally. We have also had cooperation in the field of promotion of women's rights or specifically the right of girls. First of all, the right of girls to education and Croatia has also helped a group of Moroccan girls to finish, I think it was about high school, so to finish high school. We have also developed relations within that cooperation between the EU and Arab countries, and then the African continent, therefore, we have some basis, I mean, for this cooperation with Morocco and I repeat, considering, although it is nominally military cooperation here, de facto this type of cooperation as described here and when you look at the areas, and you will see that in a much larger number of areas, cooperation with Morocco is defined, rather than defined by Poland. Of course, because in other areas with Poland, we are working together in the context of alliances or the EU, which we are both members of. So here, when you look at areas where cooperation is developing, although military cooperation is, de facto there are many things that reflect such as health care, such as the environment, such as a series of things that reflect de facto on peaceful cooperation between the two countries, on cooperation in a whole range of areas. We therefore view this as, of course, military cooperation agreements, defence cooperation, but in some ways, as well as a diplomatic and political step towards improving cooperation between Croatia and Morocco, namely in the case of Croatia and Poland, and we will support these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138541	Thank you very much. We are now going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138542	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So, we have before us a law, or military cooperation agreement Croatia with Poland, and we should essentially ask ourselves what is the point of signing such an agreement in the first place. Croatia and Poland are already members of the NATO Alliance, defending us 4 million active soldiers, we have 10,000 warheads, we have 4 thousand F-16 hunters, and why is it necessary now to sign another contract and finally, who do we have to defend ourselves from? So some kind of defense agreement would mean someone's trying to attack you. And we can now look at neighbouring countries like the Republic of Croatia where we see that even Montenegro is, say, a NATO member, where we see that BiH certainly cannot attack us, Hungary is with us in NATO, Slovenia, Italy, meaning that it remains a threat only Serbia, which is this e-potential, which is so weak at the moment that it is simply incapable of any aggressive action, which is best seen by the development of the situation in Kosovo. And among other things, this same Serbia wants to join the NATO alliance and the EU, so basically that threat was resolved in 1995 and 1997, and it is no longer realistic. On the other hand, if we look at the environment of Poland, we also see that on virtually no side can attack Poland unless someone counts that tiny piece of Russia so-called. Kalinja's urban area, which is completely detached from Russian territory and which cannot pose a threat to a country that has 40 million inhabitants. It is truly incomprehensible that we, therefore, raise tensions and send for example. in Poland, the entire motorised battle on our cost, to send more armies than France, whose military budget is incomparably larger than the Republic of Croatia, and to essentially lead one such militarist policy in the 21st century. If, then, it is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and it is not in the interest of Poland, in whose interest is it? Obviously, once again, someone is in charge of raising tensions, that countries are arming themselves, that they spend money on arms, and that's primarily the United States that we see as having ordered 2% to stand out for each country's GDP, so that's what interest is when 2% of the defense GDP is allocated, then most of the time we have to buy American weapons and we also see that thanks to such agreements and such, let's say, artificial threats, the United States has the right to build its bases, those like that then protect all the members of these phantom threats, so we have, I don't know, NATO bases starting with Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Turkey to Poland and in fact Japan, all of Russia is surrounded by these NATO bases. It is essentially the only structure that should possibly be defended from Russia. However, Russia has no intention, nor has it any real power to threaten any member of the NATO alliance because the times of the Soviet Union have long passed, even such a Soviet and Eastern bloc, which was much, much stronger than today's Russia, was not able to conquer Afghanistan, but had to withdraw after defeating 1989. from that country. Afterwards, Russia was unable to protect even its own minority from persecution in Latvia, open persecution, from persecution in Central Asia where all human rights were violated, it failed to keep even Ukraine's provinces in the House of Bass where it also suffered defeat, where the Russians also live, failed to establish full control even over the region of the Caucasus, but had to pay a literal racket each year of several billion dollars in order to keep small separatist provinces such as Chechnya, Dagestan and Ingusheti in obedience. So they can't handle literally 2 million, 3 million of their own citizens. Is that a power that can really threaten Europe? It is not, but it will, and it will not, because Russia is not in the interest of restoring the Warsaw Pact, but Russia is in the interest of developing the economy, Russia is in the interest of placing its products on the European market, and above all energy. What's basically behind this kind of military agreement, completely unnecessary, I repeat once again in the 21st century is, in fact, the desire of America, the United States to sell weapons, to build military bases and to prevent any integration of Russia with the European continent. They are essentially most afraid that Russia could become an EU member because if it did, the United States would become a second-rate force. Russia, within European integration, would bring Europe back to the top in international politics, and that must be prevented. As soon as the U.S. suspected that Europe was turning to at least a little Russia, they, imagine, organized a bug on all European presidents, including Angela Merkel. Remember that affair when US intelligence listened to Angela Merkel, and they didn't listen because Angela Merkel called the Croatian Prime Minister or because Angela Merkel, I don't know, called the Polish Prime Minister, but only because Angela Merkel warmed her relations with Vladimir Putin and that was the reason, that was the real reason. And basically we here are not running a policy that is independent of Croatia, nor are we running a policy that is defensive, but we are running a policy that serves, therefore, imperialism and strengthening foreign military industry and preventing Europe from returning to the place where it was before World War I, which is, therefore, the world's leading continent with leading, above all, culture and tradition. And on the other hand, considering all of this, we cannot accept wasting time on these unnecessary military agreements, and for this reason, we will certainly not support it, remain abstention or vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138543	We have a replica of the respected representative Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138544	Dear counterpart Bunjac, most of you would agree, however, there are some things that still wouldn't, I think, that some kind of war threat exists, latent in the world. There really is, here through an individual debate I'm going to explain a little bit what I was going to say. But here's just for the moment, when you're talking about Poland, you say it's not compromised, today you don't need to have a land border 10,000 miles with a country to make a man feel threatened, so today there are aviation and rockets, so any country can be attacked in any way, that's one thing, and another thing about Serbia, Serbia is not exactly harmless especially because of one flirtation with Russia, and on the other hand we have to bear in mind that Serbia is not a friendly country for us and that those key things for our country, for our people did not do so, did not even admit aggression to our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138545	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138546	Thank you very much, Reverend Zekanovic. So I'd say again if they were in Latvia where you have a third of the Russians. Latvia, there has indeed been persecution, emigration and human rights violations because Russia could not protect them, in Latvia, which has 3 million inhabitants. [[Intruder from Assembly: More, more]] So now you imagine if Russia is unable to protect its own minority from persecution in the neighbouring country, what are its actual capacities? Between Russia and Poland are Belarus and Ukraine, planes, I suspect they can fly across Belarus and Ukraine without the permission of the two countries. So I personally think, I repeat, that they are not a threat, and they also do not want to be a threat to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138547	The next individual debate was supposed to be colleagues of Ivan Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak. Then there should have been a respected representative of Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to speak. So the next one will speak the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138548	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, therefore, we are talking about military defence cooperation between states, as well as social cooperation. No one's against cooperation, so we need the pacts. Is there a threat, there isn't, I think there's always some kind of threat, I wouldn't spread fear of the Russians here, or fear of the Americans. However, we must see here that the little constelle of the sequence has changed, that this one Russia that was on its knees a few decades or years ago is no longer on its knees. Let's just look at Syria, so, Syria, if someone told me that I've been following geopoliticals ever since, that the Russians will be the main player today in the Middle East, so even in Syria stronger than the Americans, I wouldn't believe, and they are and they're a stronger player. And let's take a look at General Haftar now in Libya. So, he's very much under Russian influence, and the capital in Tripoli is in the ring, and it's very likely that this one general who's been said to be under Russian influence, is very likely to take over all of Libya soon, and has long been controlled by that most important part of Libya, the southern part of Libya, the eastern, where the oil fields, Benghazi and the rest, so that one threat still exists and we have to be aware of it and not to ignore it with that, especially in the context of Russia I wouldn't say that Russia lost the war in Ukraine, it never formally even fought in Ukraine, that war still lasts, for those who don't know, every day in Ukraine people die, if I don't cheat, from the first hand, people who are right there on the front line saying that last year about 800 people died on the Ukrainian side, meaning on the border with Dombas, it's terrible numbers, that no one of which nobody says that one war will still tell their people in Europe that they's what they's gone. So we have one crisis hotspot that exists. So, the pacts are good though I'm going to agree with my colleague Bunjec, we are in the NATO Pact, we are in the NATO Pact, so a little bit, in fact all together this is weird, these pacts, another, another, another, what now that we actually have a roof organization that connects everything. But here's a question, I'll connect a little, I was in BiH yesterday, more specifically in Kupres, Livna, Duvna or Tomislavgrad, and I see a Turkish contingent of EUFOR, patrolling, guarding Croatians. If it's possible that the Croats are just watching over the Turks, it's small for me, I have to admit it's a bad look. We can also be and are part of EUFOR because we are a member of the EU. Why don't you, for example. Croatian Army of the Republic of Croatia guards its Croats from BiH when we are one nation in two countries? Here, that's one question for me, something that's a little strange to me, and I actually see that one unnecessary tension is being created, we're in the EU, and Turkey isn't really yet, it's a signator of the Dayton Agreement, but why, here it is, put it through the minister, through the ministry and the government, it's one small thing that would make these Croatian spaces in BiH the speaker doesn't really understand...the Bosnian canton specifically, here I am sorry that there's no colleague from BiH to confirm what I'm saying that they feel a little more comfortable, a little more satisfied, that they keep it, that they see the Croatian flag on the soldier's shoulder here, I think they'd be quite happy, and that's what they should be done. As for co-operation with countries, every cooperation is welcome, so today we have China, and here's what's super potential for one partner today, and now I'm going to say that no one has said in the Croatian public, and now I don't know how much anyone will hear this, China is not a democratic country, right, China still has a one-party system. Now, we're pretty pragmatic here, I don't mind the Chinese coming here, let them come, great, I'm for the development of the economy. But the liquids of Western European civilization are the expansion of democracy around the world, and even for some time there was a trend of non-communication with countries that had totalitarian regimes, until the Russians introduced a multi-party system, there was, whether the Iron Curtain was not being communicated. The Chinese haven't introduced him, the Chinese have, and they've got very big restrictions around social networks, that's what's being said, what's being done. I am interested, not in the context of the Republic of Croatia, but in the context of the entire EU, when what Trump is doing now will have an economic impact on China in order to really liberalise its political system, finally and that the Chinese really have this opportunity that we have. I'll say actually, we have a vision of democracy, we can seem to say something, but nothing at all. Hrvoje Zekanovic speaks in HS, no one transfers it, and Andrej Plenkovic today has a political rally, 48 hours already, from Ploč to Dubrovnik and Zagreb, so here is one question that I would ask, of course, alone to cooperate with everyone, including the Chinese, with all the countries of the world, but here he is, however, to question myself in one way, not to be there a little hypocrites, to look at the threats there, we sign contracts, but still we carefully choose allies, or those who will not turn their backs on us tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138549	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the motionary, the Secretary of State, Tomislav Ivić, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138550	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Just a few sentences, of course, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate of these two laws, I hope that HS will adopt both of these laws. I must say, I am sorry that there are no colleagues of the Bunjca because he really said I would miss my debate, these agreements are common among states, I said in my opening statement that the Republic of Croatia has such or similar agreements signed with 41 countries in the world. One of these countries is Russia, therefore, and with Russia we have an interstate defence co-operation agreement. So by adopting these two laws or by confirming these two framework agreements, neither is it intended to raise any tensions, nor is it intended, of course, to raise any tensions, but it is the creation of conjectures to regulate such interrelationships with partner countries, with countries with which we otherwise have friendly relations and good co-operation. Therefore, it is not even about the fact that the Republic of Croatia feels threatened or may be threatened, such agreements do not serve that purpose. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia is a NATO member, but with such agreements, or laws, closer regulate mutual relations between the two countries and the fact is, it should be said here that Serbia has no intention of entering the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138551	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138552	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, the 5th international exhibition of arms and military equipment manufacturers is currently being held in Split, the most visited so far. It includes 185 renowned arms exhibitors and military equipment from 26 countries, and reminded the exhibition of a total of 33 sides of the delegation, which is military, which is state-owned. I therefore believe that such agreements can only contribute to the improvement of cooperation, not only in the field of defence, but also in the matter of the economy. I believe that the Republic of Croatia has a strong defence industry, our soldiers are leaving armed and equipped with all the products of Croatian producers, and I believe that this is the same good type of cooperation on the economy, and of course our exports are growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138553	State Secretary Ivić's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138554	Thank you very much. It is true that in Split, the military exhibition is the largest so far, and the fact is that such agreements and laws are passed among other things and because of the improvement of cooperation in the defence industry, and the fact is that the Republic of Croatia has a very developed defence industry and that it has something to offer, not only Poland and Morocco, but the whole world, and that is one of the reasons why they are still in these two laws in HS today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138555	The next replica of the respected representative, Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138556	Dearly beloved, I agree with you that bridges should be built, not walls, but around Serbia I disagree. It was recently said in this assembly in HS that Serbia would not join the EU, so it has now become, therefore, a launch of accession negotiations. So, Serbia talks with the NATO Pact, talks, an office opened in the NATO Pact Belgrade, an office opened in Brussels in NATO's central pact, so it's about intensive negotiations only Serbs would make it more cunning than we, they were also flirting with the Russians and NATO pact with the Americans, so they would raise the price, so they gave the MiGs 29 to the Russians, and the Americans didn't want to sell us planes, let's not forget, they didn't want to sell us planes. Why? Perhaps the Serbian Air Force will protect Croatian airspace. Who knows?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138557	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138558	The fact is that the NATO Alliance has its own office in Belgrade, the NATO Alliance's policy is a policy of cooperation, above all, with all those who are open to such co-operation. Whether Serbia enters the NATO alliance or not, we can't just speculate. I speak what I have said based on statements of Serbia's current political leadership. That they are not interested in joining the NATO alliance, that they want to build a policy of military neutrality.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138559	I would therefore conclude the debate on these points, and we will vote on both points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138560	Final proposal of the Law on the validation of the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the cooperation of the area of defence, second reading, P.Z. No. 613, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law, please vote. I find that the majority of the 111 votes for and 3 votes have been abstentioned by the Law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the cooperation of the area of defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138593	We will now move to the point: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Korea on social security, second reading, P.Z. No. 615 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138594	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, today we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Korea on Social Security. No type of social security cooperation has been established in relations between the Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea, and because of the absence of an international agreement on the coordination of the social security system, Croatian workers working in the area of Korea and Korean workers working in the territory of Croatia could not exercise social security rights such as the right to retire. Currently, we have 130 Croatian citizens working and staying in Korea, while 55 Korean workers in the Republic of Korea who have a regulated stay for work. It should also be noted that, in March 2016, the Embassy of the Republic of Korea informed the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the interest of the Republic of Korea in the conclusion of a social security contract. In June 2017, however, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of a contract between Croatia and Korea on social security and a delegation of the Republic of Croatia for negotiations was formed. After that, in February and March 2018, the text of the draft contract was agreed on which the negotiations were successfully completed, and the contract itself was signed in Seoul on 18 December last year and, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the contract was signed by Minister Marko Pavić. The application of the contract will allow the exercise of rights from the social security of citizens or insurance companies of both countries that have achieved periods of insurance in both countries during their working days and, of course, will raise the quality of cooperation between Croatia and Korea. The contract is based on generally accepted principles for bilateral social security contracts. This law confirms the contract in order to comply with Article 141 of the Treaty. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and has been directly applied to the exercise of social security rights governed by the Treaty, which are rights as I have already stated from pension insurance and the determination of applicable legislation. What is ultimately to be mentioned is that there is no need in the State budget to provide any additional resources related to the final proposal for a law confirming this contract. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138595	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening the debate, the first one was supposed to be on behalf of the Living Walls and the SNAGE Club to speak to the esteemed representative, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, who is not there, who is losing his right to speak. So the next one will speak on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138596	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with associate, colleague and colleague, I believe that there is not a single representative in this Croatian Parliament, official or deputy actually who does not meet daily tourists from the Republic of Korea here on Mark's square and this has been going on for years, which is out of curiosity, and also some logic question is being imposed on itself, as it suddenly does. On one occasion I was with the Director of the Tourist Board of the City of Zagreb and she tells me that.../incomprehensible/... the invasion of Koreans in Croatia was a recording of a show The Romantic in Croatia and this series animated groups of many young Koreans to seek love in several Croatian destinations. This reality show is a commercial for Croatian tourism but in the great interest of Korean film producers in Croatia and enhanced actions by the local tourist community, and the results quickly became visible. So, in Croatia more and more in 2017, about 440,000 visited them, in 2018 close to nearly half a million. In Zagreb, the Koreans have been the most numerous guests for several years, and everyone expects these positive trends to continue in the coming years because two Korean reality shows have been recorded in Croatia. Korean Air has also introduced a direct plane line between Zagreb and Seoul twice a week which has made Croatia more accessible to the Koreans than ever. Destinations such as Dubrovnik, Split, Pula, especially Plitvice Lakes, are flooded with Korean tourists. Research has shown that Korean tourists are looking for destinations that will inspire them to learn something about history, lifestyle, expand their knowledge and perspectives, and with equal intensity they actually travel all 12 months of the year. As for economic activities between the Republic of Korea and Croatia, one of the largest multinational companies based in South Korea Samsung has its headquarters in Zagreb. An agreement between the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of HABOR and Korea was signed between the export import and the Korean export insurance company. The two countries play a very important role in promoting trade and business. Kotra and very agile Embassy of the Republic of Korea in Zagreb. Croatian companies are already exporting various Croatian food products to Korea, there is a great interest in exporting certain electrical parts specifically for electric and wind power plants and turbines, radio electronics and furniture and wood products. Croatia is a world producer of modular helmets used in the military, police or for special purposes in mining, forestry or construction industry for which the Republic of Korea is very interested. Autonomous vehicles, robots specialized in the cleaning of landmines in conflict zones around the world and an area where the emergency rescue team could not enter is another top quality product in Croatia for which the Republic of Korea is interested. Not to mention roman's electric, electric sports car. In the fast-growing IT sector are actually interested people from South Korea. To date, Croatia has signed 8 international social insurance contracts with the following countries, Australia, BiH, Montenegro, Canada, the Canadian province of Quebec, Northern Macedonia, Serbia, so the former Yugoslavia and Turkey, the contract with Serbia is being signed until private social insurance contracts with Serbia are concluded. Since 1 July 2013, when Croatia joined the EU, bilateral agreements with EU Member States have been replaced by legal regulations on the coordination of systems with several countries on social security and various regulations, from Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Italy, Luxembourg, Hungary, the Netherlands, Germany, Slovenia, Slovakia, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Legal regulations on the coordination of the social security system apply in other EU member states with which the Republic of Croatia has not concluded bilateral social insurance contracts and these are 11 countries of Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Portugal, Romania and Spain. Today in Croatia there are about 100 people from the Republic of Korea working in South Korea, and about 200 of our citizens are working in South Korea. So far, there has been no agreement or any form of social cooperation between the Republic of Korea and the Republic of Croatia. In December 2018, as we heard, Minister Marko Pavić signed the contract, as Minister of Labour and Pension System. In this agreement, which is in favour of this final draft of the law, why is the final draft of the law because it is an international contract, and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament in Article 207a. This adoption process is in fact the final draft law on the confirmation of an international contract. It regulates the rights of pension insurance and the determination of applicable legislation, which means that the acquisition of rights takes into account the legal facts created by both countries, the collection of periods of insurance or other periods, as well as payments and recognised payments acquired under the laws of the Contracting Parties, as well as the protection of acquired rights and rights only in the event of termination of the contract. And let's remind ourselves how HZMO actually acts on insurance requirements. If we are requested by an foreign institution in this case by the Republic of Korea, the period of insurance shall be determined after the request has been received. The internship in the Republic of Korea and on the prescribed printer shall be delivered to an foreign carrier from the Republic of Korea. In accordance with its rules, the foreign institution shall determine the amount of pension and pay it. But if we, as the Republic of Korea, are asked by us as the Republic of Korea following the receipt of a certificate from the foreign institution concerning the period of insurance abroad, i.e. The internship, we add the same about training in the Republic of Croatia and according to the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act HZMO determines the amount of pension and pays for it. Here is also because of intensive and good cooperation with the Republic of Korea with which Croatia has absolutely no open questions I welcome the adoption of this international contract and I call on behalf of the HDZ Club all colleagues to confirm it in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138597	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate, the first to come forward is the Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac, who's gone, who's losing his right to speak. Then the respected representative, Ivan Pernar, is gone, losing his right to speak. So a respected representative of Gordan Maras answered, gone, lost his right to speak, and a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, gone, lost his right to speak. This will end, we will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met and I will now give a break by 6:30, 18:30 and 30 when, according to the agreement, we will have a vote on certain points so far. Let's all get some rest. It's 5:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-11-0.u138598	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Korea on social security, second reading, P.Z. No. 615, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. I am voting on that final proposal of the Law. I find that 115 votes for the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Korea on Social Security are unanimous.
