ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148072	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected by the Croatian public, especially pensioners and poor in the Republic of Croatia. From this pay phone, I already talk more than ten times about the promise of then-Minister Pavic from September last year that he will increase the rates for additional health insurance that has been unchanged since 2004. There's no movement. The minister was given a better job or where more money is being rotated and where people will be more moved by the sleeve than labour resors and the pension system. The new minister did not absolutely promise to deal with it in his performance. And look now please, look at the hypocrites, for the Day of the Elderly for October 1st, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System plans to maintain the National Council for Retired and Older Persons and consider whether there are opportunities to increase the censorship of the DHO. My people, 60, you understand, 60,000 people went deeper into poverty. Do you people understand that? Do you understand that this government produces poverty, that instead of getting 10 kuna pension increases, they have to pay 70 kuna per month for the D.O.O. Where are the constitutional principles on the right to health here? Where's the welfare state here? Where's the fight against poverty? What are we talking about? We're talking about successes, I don't know what, road construction, concrete building, naps, what we're gonna talk about. Where are the people, where are the citizens who created this that we enjoy? What are we going to leave our children? Do we leave them solidarity as a fundamental principle, solidarity among generations, solidarity with those who have not been lucky in life to get bigger pensions, those who have not been lucky to get jobs, those who have been killed at work and live on a thousand kunas? Are we leaving this to our children? Well, people who act like you're ministers, do you see people, do you see citizens, do you see how they live? For 4 months you have a solution in the procedure, you have a solution, you have a law in an emergency procedure on voluntary health insurance where we suggest that exactly 50% of the salary growth from 2004 to today increases the price for the DZ, that from 1,939,00 kuna goes to 2,340,00 kuna and with 1,000,00 embarrassing, 1.516.00 per family member goes to 1,830,00 kuna per family member. And to introduce a mechanism that every year we have a synchronization of these censors that because of 10 kuna raises or wages or pensions or receiving help from local self-government someone wouldn't have to go into higher costs, and the costs are not small, that's 840 kuna a year. Plus, these pensioners if they want to be informed about the world, if they want to watch a movie, they still have to pay 960 TV subscriptions. So one pension and more than one pension goes to those two things. Does anyone see that? Does anyone want to solve citizens' problems? It's a waste of opposition, no suggestions when no one reads them, no one says you're right, it's got to be settled. Why do we need such a Parliament? So let's disband both the government and Parliament and everything. Let's introduce an educational absoluteism, but to take care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148073	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA, in the name of which the respected representative Goran Aleksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148074	Goran Alexic: Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, 23 days ago on September 3rd this year, the case of Franak ended with the final victory of the consumer. The Supreme Court announced that verdict on September 17th. After 7.5 years of a persistent court battle, Franak and all consumers who have negotiated loans with the Swiss franc currency clause have the right to request all over-paid amounts from the banks in their individual proceedings. The amount of interest paid, the amount of exchange rates paid and the corresponding tight interest rate paid. Unfortunately, one part of the debtors, the consumer no longer has the right to seek interest because of the statute of limitations, we have spoken of it many times, the interest interest limitation came on 13.6 this year, but Sberbank, the debtors of Sberbank, the former Volksbank still have the right to request over-payments of interest. What's important to say is that despite what someone would say now, it's over now, it's not over. Why isn't it over? Because now every debtor who has contracted the Franak currency clause, who has negotiated an unfair interest rate, must ask for his own money by means of a private suit, so that the procedure in private proceedings will continue for at least 2, 3 years and perhaps 4 years. In addition, not all legal questions that come from the Franak case have been resolved. So one of the most important legal issues I would not even say is that it is legal but a mathematical question is the compensation of those consumers who converted CHF loans into euro loans during 2016. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in April of its revision of 2868/18 gave these to all consumers with 55 000 to demand their rights in courts. So the Supreme Court has undoubtedly said, you have the right to establish your rights in court. However, what we still don't know exactly, I know, but in order to do what I know exactly that has to be confirmed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. It's a mathematical question of that reckoning. So the question is how will mathematically calculate what belongs to debtors who have converted loans. Because what happened to them, I'm one of them. We've all been cut off by the head. The debtor who goes to court is still paying the francs, not a reduced principal until the court rules it out. So his court will also reduce the principal. But whoever sues will not only reduce his principal but will pay him back the full amount of interest paid, the amount of the exchange rate paid, and will also give him the corresponding heavy interest on each of the days when the subscription was made. There's that difference. So those of us who have converted to us are just a reduced principal and those who have not converted to them will also be reduced principal and they will be paid back amounts. So the ones we converted when we got to court, we have to get that part we didn't get. The second issue that is extremely important is the question of the integrity of the CHF contract. According to C118/17, the EU court has found that if a legislator intervenes in an unfair contractual relationship and changes unfair contractual provisions so that they are now in charge of national courts at some point if someone is suing to further examine the situation and determine what kind of compensation it was, was it a full compensation. That's where I'm going back to this case of conversion. However, another important thing is the integrity of the contract, the EU court said contracts that have such an unfair currency clause that is harmful, that such contracts are in the opinion of the EU court. So the complete contract should be completely zero. It will also have to be decided by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in one of the audits or perhaps even in the review procedure. These are two very important questions. The third question is the issue of an outdated claim, the EU court says if it finds that an unfair contractual provision must be returned to all that has been acquired under this unfair contractual provision. That means there's no statute of limitations. So, I expect the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to decide soon on converted loans regarding mathematics, the integrity of the CHF contract and finally on the limitation of claims based on unfair provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148075	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGE in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148077	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to say something, and I'm going to ask you for a moment's attention, because I want you to think about what I'm about to say. I want you to consider the role you're experiencing yourself in, whether you're aware that you're citizens' representatives, that you've been elected to a legislative body, whether you've considered your obligation, not the right to exercise parliamentary oversight over the institutions of this state. Do you think it's enough to have parliamentary oversight of the Secret Service? Do you think it's enough as it is this afternoon to discuss the implementation of the state budget, accountingly doing 20%, 30%, or parliamentary oversight is in some way dealing with and the functioning of public institutions and the institutions of this country. I think parliamentary surveillance is this second, essential control of whether our institutions are functioning. Last week, the parliamentary majority, although it was my proposal to conclude on the Committee on Labour and Pensions System that the HZMO report is going to the plenary session to discuss it, to get this report together for 2018, the ruling majority, or parliamentary majority, who has 7 members on the board, rejected that conclusion because I don't know what argument because they didn't say a single word, but just refused. At the same time, HZMO Deputy Director said publicly that there are hundreds of misunderstandings and ignorances of matter in the pension system because citizens, MPs and all entities are misinformed. So we have the position of another HZMO man and the parliamentary majority which does not respect its party member. So people are a disaster. Last year, it was precedentd that for the first time in our country, a report on HZMO's work was not discussed. I could understand it because it was a public debate and you were afraid to open a public debate here. Do you fear this year too because you are preparing laws based on a referendum, which you are afraid of, so you should publicly face problems, see what, is the problem admitted to someone that you've misjudged, is the problem to say that you've been wrong by removing the 60-65 bonus and giving a bonus to those 65-70. Who has more working potential, who needs to stay more in the world of work, is that a problem to say, is that a problem to discuss, but it might be a problem if the truth came out here in the light of day that HZMO no longer has previous control, and previous control is 96. The existence of that institution returned solutions to the processing of those found to be invalid. So, these were still senior officials, today these controls are gone, you're at risk, we're at risk, we have 30% of the year-on-year faulty solutions that will be given to pensioners, some will be in plus, some will be in negative, but that doesn't matter, it's important that they're broken and there's no job, no tolling without control, you can't work parts for cars without control, let alone solutions for long-term income citizens. So let's not play games, we've objected to the president of HS and the presidency of HS, they can put this on the agenda and the plenary session because it's a public interest, we're telling you that it's a public interest, let's not let in addition to 30 billion health kunas that HSR in the free Republic never debated to join them another 40, more than 40 billion pension kunas and that they are covered in darkness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148078	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148079	We continue with the presentation of the position, next fellow Tomislav Žagar is in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA, please welcome colleague Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148080	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about one subject asked by certain workers and they are so far, they will remain anonymous, but they do not have to be, they said not to be anonymous, it can be said by name and last name and on the other hand to tell the Government in this speech to take over everything that public resources and public money are not exclusively in the function of enriching individuals, but to benefit the entire society. In turn, economic freedoms are always a prerequisite for political freedoms, no political freedoms without economic freedoms. My nephew when he left this country told me, he says here it'll be better when people have jobs, when they're paid for that job because then those who now blackmail them with a political conditioned job won't be able to do it anymore. So it's no secret that my county gets jobs through a political relationship and that's just the rule, that's not the exception, that's the rule and that's why, partly, and that's why young people leave the country. And when I mentioned my county, this is the situation. Virovitica-Podravska County has the lowest gross salary. The average is 6566 kuna per month in 2017, which is only 65% of the average salary in Zagreb. Virovitica-Podravska County has the second highest registered unemployment rate in Croatia at 23.2%, Virovitica-Podravska County is the second poorest county. According to available data with 33.44% of the population living in poverty. In 1994 the average net salary in Virovitičko-Podravska County was 85.7% of the average salary, net salary in the city of Zagreb and in 2017 the average net salary in Virovitičko-Podravska was only 70.6% of the average net salary in the city of Zagreb. And to point out what I want to say in this speech. According to the State Statistics Institute in 2018, 51.3% of people are unable to afford a week of vacation outside the house. In 2018, we have almost 20 million tourists who visited Croatia and half of the local population cannot afford a week of vacation. So, we remember that old song about who has money bathed in the sea and who doesn't have a home in the laurels. However, there is now another problem. Those who don't have money can't even bathe at home in a laurel anymore. And you know why? Because the entrepreneur, the same one who uses the public resources of this country, I will specifically say, this is about those who have a contract with the Croatian forests. This entrepreneur gives the worker payment lists in which he signifies that he used his vacation even though he did not use it. And the workers, for fear of losing their jobs, I guess that's what people who can't leave this country, maybe for age and some other reason, they sign such payrolls and actually admit they've been on an annual basis that they haven't been on. In other words, I can't even sit at home, under some tree and have a drink in peace and put my feet in a laurel, and I can't do that because they're not allowed to do it. And these same employers, and there are a lot of them, I'm telling you, there are a lot of them in the Republic of Croatia who play big entrepreneurs, who make donations to rebuild. So that's how we hear they're making donations to the church roof, and then they're even big Catholics, patriots. They use the public resources of this country for personal gain and no one controls them. Why, here is when it is in the area and the wooden branch, why is it not conditional, if someone has a contract with the Croatian forests that he can access the competition, in other words that he has an advantage if he respects collective border contracts. No one controls it, no one controls the rights of workers in these companies, all those who appear in a public competition. We see now in Slavonia a lot of buildings being built from EU funds, according to people, we hear that there are no workers there anymore, no one will even work anymore. All this raises the question and attracts funds from eu funds, all of this raises the question at the end and general standard of Croatian citizens and ultimately and then political relations in the Republic of Croatia, especially at local level. By moving and now the state administration's office to the county and we've actually cemented the situation. Because if you look at and according to the data of FINA how many people who work are based on state and public budgets or on budget users, then you see that this situation is actually cemented and people, of course, are highly valued in their jobs to vote for this or that political option. This practice should cease in the Republic of Croatia and all those responsible for this situation should start to do their job, control what public money is used for and allow workers to use at least the annual vacation that belongs to them under the law and not to be valued in this way and in some way humiliated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148081	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148082	We are going to the 6th debate of Honored counterpart Goran Aleksic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148083	Thank you, Honorable President HS. Dear Croatian peoples, I would like to thank all those who have allowed their activities to continue their search for Captain Miskic and his crew after the sinking of the Bourbon Rhode. These activities have first and foremost started to take place on the facebook, I thank everyone who signed the petition, I thank everyone who paid the donations, I call on all of you, and also here MPs in HS to pay donations so that the search doesn't stop because there is a great chance that people will find them and after many, many days of searching, I believe that they are alive and healthy and will find them, that they will be found by those who are looking for them. I especially note that the Miskic family is one of the families who is in charge of a loan with the Swiss franc currency clause, so this is one new shipwreck in their life, they had a shipwreck with francs, now they have a shipwreck in the right sense of the word. I must also mention this and thank the Kalebota families, Srdjan Kalebota and Anita Perkov Kalebota who are part of the headquarters that launched these activities so that the search does not stop, and these two are spouses who are activists of the Franak Association. I hope that this search will end successfully and that people will be found and that we can open champagne and drink to it. I now wish to congratulate all the members of the Franak Association and all the consumers who are in debt in the Swiss franc currency clause on the final victory, we won the banks in court, we received final confirmation on 3 September this year that our loans are negotiated with unfair contractual provisions and on the interest rate and on the currency clause. I call upon all of you who have made such loans not to be afraid and to sue banks, you will get your money. The Supreme Court of Rev-3142/18 of this year found that the courts which receive such cases in the proceedings do not have to carry out any evidence. The powerful verdict of Judge Radovan Dobrinić P-1401/12 is sufficient evidence that you have agreed a loan with unfair contractual provisions, in that judgment writes everything, the judge must only determine that your credit is just such a credit, that the unfair currency clause CHF, the unfair interest rate that is changed by the decision of the bank, and that you are suing consumers, that is all the court has to determine. In addition, the amount that banks owe you must be reported. I've been telling people for a few days not to rush into court, I'm not saying those who have already sued, because they had to sue so that the interest would not go out of date, they did well, now whether they were suing only interest or interest and currency irrelevantly, they did well, they are now in court proceedings and they need to wait for this court case to come to an end. Everyone else who hasn't sued now has time to sue until June 2023. when antiquity of claims occurs as a difference of course. There is a possibility that the Supreme Court will change its view of limitation of claims, so those who are late will also have a chance, a new chance to sue for interest and currency. I must say that those people who have negotiated euro and kuna loans have also negotiated an unfair interest rate, and they, according to EU law, have the right to request the difference of interest and the corresponding tightening interest. In the view of the EU Court of Justice, such contracts as are negotiated with an unfair currency clause should be fully non-performing. I invited Prime Minister Plenkovic to take me to the interview to see if the government of the Republic of Croatia would prepare a legal solution so that people would not have to go to court. I urge once again from this place Prime Minister Plenkovic to welcome me to the interview and see which direction the government intends to go in. If the government doesn't want to propose a bill, I'll propose it to all of you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148084	It is now up to Mr Goran Aleksic to present the position of the Club of Representatives of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148085	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, speak again about consumers who have been damaged in the Franak case, I have talked about it here 200-day, 300-times, but I continue to be asked by individual representatives and MPs about their rights because they have loans. So since they ask me about their rights, and they ask me about the citizens on the street, I have to repeat, repeat, repeat and repeat, and I will repeat it again, it is necessary both for you and for the public, so today my theme will be the validity of the conversion of CHF credit. Namely, after we have a final verdict that has been confirmed on all necessary grounds that banks have negotiated unfair contractual provisions with consumers and on the currency clause CHF and on the interest rate we have an interesting situation. Four banks are looking for an arbitration dispute in Washington to get their money back, and they're asking for that money from the Republic of Croatia. They claim they lost some money in the conversion, I think it's very interesting. They didn't lose anything, they only temporarily cut people's capitals in conversion, and they didn't pay them back. So these thieves, these banks that are rightly targeted by thieves and these sophisticated thieves who have robbed Croatian citizens with 50% to 100% higher wars, illegally increased wars, which ultimately amounts to around 15 billion kunas who have not yet returned to Croatian citizens on the one hand, have to pay back those 15 billion kuna to Croatian citizens who have been robbed, and on the other hand in Washington are asking some kind of money from the state that they haven't lost at all. It's an interesting double standard. On the one hand, they say here we've solved the problem of those who've converted, and on the other hand, they're asked by the state to give them some money. Well, that's terrible. Why didn't that conversion actually give people money back? The point is that the conversion reduced the amount of the remaining principals, but neither the interest paid nor the overpaid exchange rate nor the corresponding tight interest. So the banks still owe us over-paid interest, overpaid exchange rate and a corresponding tight interest rate. That didn't come back to people. Another important question is, do we have legal interest after the conversion to establish our rights? This was determined by the revision of 2868/18, the review was submitted to the Supreme Court of Lawyers, Patricia Djuric, in a very interesting case where the consumer's prosecutor, because of the misleading procedure, cancelled his power of attorney and gave authority to Patricia Djuric and Patricia Djuric, as an excellent lawyer, pulled the dispute out of the abyss. This dispute has already been almost lost, but it has proved that even after the conversion we have a legal interest in determining our rights in courts and it is now definitely settled, anyone who has converted the loan has the right to determine in court their rights. Now the question is, what are the real ones? I said mathematically it's very clear, mathematically we didn't get any overpaid interest, no overpaid course, nor did we get the corresponding tight interest on those overpaid amounts. However, a new legal question is raised, is this conversion even valid? I claim that this conversion is not worth it. Why isn't she worth it? The moment the conversion was carried out, neither I nor the bank, nor the state knew that the currency clause CHF was harmful because it wasn't confirmed in court, if we knew it, the state wouldn't have passed such a law at all, and then we would have asked for judicial rights. Namely, what's this about? The law on mandatory relations is clear, if there is no something, that there is no one to consolidate, it cannot be converted into something that exists. Since CHF currency clause is harmful from the very beginning, at the moment of conversion it is also harmless, there is no, there is no, since it does not exist, it could not be converted into something that exists, and that is something is the currency clause EUR-o. Therefore, my claim is that the conversion is not at all valid and therefore it is necessary and after conversion to apply the initial payment plan and calculate the differences on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148086	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148087	On the basis of Article 249a, we now move on to a position on behalf of clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Honored Fellow Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the wake of the public procurement debate, I want to talk about the values on which we base our statehood and not only our statehood but also our Croatianism and our europeanism. Corruption is a problem that gnaws the confidence of citizens and citizens of all Member States in the Union and, according to research over the past few years, more and more. In particular, public funds from European funds intended to reduce inequalities between EU citizens and their empowerment through an increase in quality of life should not be used for the non-insatiable wealth of individuals and the corrupting of regimes undermining the EU's democratic foundations. Hungary is one of the most corrupt EU member states and we have watched for years on the side and without any reaction that public funds are being used suspiciously for the private wealth of Viktor Orban and his friends. It's the same Victor Orban and the same Fidesz that their colleagues and colleagues from HDZ cook in the stars and view as a role model. They say he's a great friend of Croatia. The colleagues and colleagues here today should say that Viktor Orban is not a friend to the Hungarians, let alone citizens and citizens of Croatia. Every time he was to our country, Orban was supposed to show friendship, he missed it. He wasn't our friend when we asked for Zsolt Hernadia's arrests, he wasn't our friend in the case of a refinery in Sisak, and he wasn't our friend when he tried to corrupt our country's top officials through the middleman. You all know what I'm talking about. The interests of the citizens of Croatia of Viktor Orban are not at all interested, friends are so simply not acting. Victor Orban is not interested in the interests of his own citizens as well, as shown in the example of Fides Mayor Gyor Zsolt Borkai. This is the man we read about these days about the accusations that in our yacht yard near Dubrovnik he paid drugs and prostitutes for himself and his friends and that is nothing more than money from EU funds. Victor Orban and Fides say it's all his private business. We are not that they have stepped into his protection but are trying to silence all those who have spoken publicly about this, from their political rivals like young people from the Momentum movement who Orban is afraid of because they pose the most serious threat of destroying his regime, to independent media and journalists. This concerns us colleagues and colleagues, this is certainly our problem, from Sweden's Lappland to Piraeus, and if we don't do something about it, we will be guilty of opening the door wide to malicious individuals and organizations and allowing them to manipulate and destroy these dissatisfactions of the democratic order that the generations of Europeans have built on the heartburn and the tragedies of World War II. Every time you say or think that corruption is none of your business, citizens lose confidence in you, in your party and what's worst in the institutions that we've sworn to protect. You all get angry when someone throws you all of you politicians or you're all thieves, and when citizens tell you loud and clear not words but their plane and bus tickets to Ireland, Germany, Scandinavian countries that they're tired of watching how money, their money is meant for schools, for hospitals, for railways, for apartments, for prostitutes and drugs on luxury yachts, you turn your head and shut up. But your silence is a loud message to citizens who read, I don't care about your fears, I don't care about your anger, I don't care about your misery and your poverty. If you don't like what I'm saying do something to your colleagues and colleagues, raise your voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148089	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148090	We are now going to the 5th debate of dear colleague Bojan Glavasesh on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148091	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues as well as citizens and citizens who are watching and listening to us today. This week, we were shaken by a case of a horrible rape of a girl because it was a girl from around Zadar. This case is terrible because the victim is so young, because physical and psychological torture lasted a long time, because it was her friends and ex-boyfriend, so people who knew her who enjoyed her torture, her sexual humiliation, her degradation and pain. We have to ask ourselves what kind of society created this group of men who took the right to have sex over another person, to take away her dignity, her youth, her mental and physical health. The truth is painful and it says, our Croatian society. It's sad, but it's the state of our society. In our society, the family and friends of the suspects blame the victim for provoking this evil on their own. In our society commentators on the portals angry with the judge recommend that his daughter, his wife, the mother should be raped. So again, women responsible for men's behavior. In our society, women in the media are daily objectiveized as if sex objects, in our society politicians use sexism when talking to journalists, little ones are cute, beautiful, etc. What kind of message we send to our girls and boys when the whole people, the media, politicians, the whole society practically celebrates the breasts of a woman, objectifies the female body, what kind of message we send to the girls. To be beautiful, but if they're too pretty, then they might provoke some maniac and they're wrong again. When the priest says from the altar that a woman who had sex before marriage is less valuable, that women are generally second-guessed, what message do we send to our girls? That they have no right to a healthy sex life, and our boys have women underneath them, that they exist solely because of them and that they can do whatever they want with them. Then we're surprised when it happens that's exactly how they behave. When women in positions of power accidentally say that domestic violence is a private matter, what message do we send to girls? To keep quiet and to suffer. When research shows us that 40% of high school students in Croatian schools think it's okay to physically hit a girl if she does something that pisses him off and we don't do anything about it, what do we expect young people to get over themselves? We don't need to be surprised that the victims didn't report the crime before and when they do, then the media is full of comments that the kid must have done something herself to deserve it. It means that women are sexual objects, they're themselves guilty, and that's where we send the message well to our girls and we send the boys a message that they're not responsible for their actions, that they have more rights than girls but less responsibility for their own behavior. The media says that the suspects are young men, these young adults, legally these are young adult people, they are men, and so we need to talk about them. And for any behavior of a girl or woman, a short skirt, an exciting message, a picture, a dance, a view, anything that can provoke a man to rape, so violently force and torture the other person in one of the most horrible ways is a deeply worrying thesis because it implies that men are animals who cannot control their emotions and their actions and that's exactly what we teach our children. This case opened our eyes to two things that destroy our society is first sexism and a common culture that accepts violence against women and the second is the fact that we are unequal in front of the law, in front of the institutions and the state, and we can see that it is nice to see that Judge Ivan Markovic, who received threats of protection, and the young victim who was not only threatened by them but who carried out their threat over a long period of time, was not protected. Sex without consent is rape. There's no sex without consent that's not rape. As laws change, we as a society must change mentality, create a society where violence is not acceptable. And for this state of society, we are simply all responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148092	The next club of representatives is that of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148093	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. But first of all, I'm talking to you fellow citizens who are watching this. Namely, as I have already told you, and I told you that following the announcement of Minister Kujundzic, an aggressive private insurance campaign will be followed, which will offer JOP policies of 25, 29, 43, 56 kuna all under that 70 kuna which is priced by the PDO policy at the public insurance company. But with every offer, it's up to 30 years to 45 years old, and those after 60, no one mentions it. In private insurance, they don't exist, you understand, over 60 years old, you don't exist for private insurance. And if you ask, that price is 180 to 350 kuna per month for additional health insurance. So why am I saying all this? Well, because I believe in a public insurance company, a non-profit public insurance company, because private people do it for profit, they do it for profit. I believe and have made a proposal at the Croatian Parliament, which Minister Kujundzic declared pulsism yesterday in a debate. So populism is for Minister Kujundzic what parliamentary representatives who legitimately, whose job it is to see injustice, propose laws to correct it. The law rescinds the damage that has been done from 2012 to today, and the damage is 250 000 citizens of the poorest citizens for whom the state has stopped paying the DZO for reasons that their pension or minimum wage has crossed the censorship of 1,516 kuna per person or 1,939 kuna if the person lives as a single person. And these two censors have been alive to Croatia since 2004. And isn't it fair that I, as an agent, suggested that 50% of the salary increases over 15 years increase these censorships, that these 250,000 poorest citizens and pensioners and workers have access to health care because you know some have squeezed the belt and certainly paid for the Joe and their incomes are much less. Even if you add that they paid to have a window into the world of tv over payment of an extra 960 kuna, it means that one pension went into the wind. Therefore, we advocate that these people be protected by the state not because of the lack of funds not to be sick, if they have to go to the hospital, they have to carry out checks, etc., and that is impossible for them if they do not have a JO policy. Yes, I favor as a representative of the Croatian Parliament of a public non-profit insurance company in which 70 kunas and grandchildren and fathers and grandfathers can receive available health care because they are never all sick at the same time because it is a huge number that can withstand all the attacks of private insurance companies and all the thirst for profit. Therefore, I suggest two key people in the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Kujundzic that they are only human beings and that they will be well returned only to the extent that they do well and take care of the places they passed while they were climbing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148094	Thank you very much. And now we're going to move this one on behalf of the club. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGE, the Honorable Representative Marko Vučetic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148096	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this week there was a warm-up over one topic. This topic was not created this week, but the topic that has followed Croatia and Croatian society since its origin, which is the inability of an effective, adequate face-to-face with violence. Violence culminated this week in the form of knowledge of the rape of a girl in the Zadar area. Today, this violence culminated in the knowledge of the media that the father had taken the girl away. Violence culminated several months ago in the knowledge that he died of injuries in the prison, Kristian Vukasovic, violence culminated every day because we were formed as a state where there are no adequate institutions that can adequately face violence. A state that is unable to face violence is not formed as a state but exists as a half state. State as an unsecured state or state as a semi-product. Such a state should also be discussed in such a way that a state that is unable to protect its citizens should be observed and observed. A state in which there are institutions just to hide, conceal and erase the trace of the criminal trail of those considered political, financial powers is not a state but half-state. A state in which there are no institutions inhabited by laws, when laws do not exist in institutions, then justice is not in those institutions and justice is not in such a state. It is precisely respected colleagues and colleagues in the Republic of Croatia, it is half-republic, it is semi-maintained or it is at best state as a semi-secured product. Croatian citizens, Croatian politicians who come, those who come, those who have a sense of justice that has come into expression in this Zadar case, which thanks to the free media in which this future legality or the possibility of the state being completed in accordance with the truth that exists in the free media, and that is true, that Croatian citizens, Croatian children should be protected. In the semi-state, heroes are the ones who have been wiped out by a criminal trail. These are people who perform as kleptomaniacs, half-states exist as half-states only if there are both political and financial and judicial kleptomaniacs. Is there someone who needs to steal the state, someone who needs to steal justice, someone who needs to steal institutions and someone who needs to steal the future from all those who have been exposed to violence? In a country that will be learned or hopefully learn with that truth that exists in free individuals, free groups and free media, there is another different form of heroism, it is the heroism of the victim. If our victims are not heroes, then we do not exist as a state, but exist as a place in one, to call on Socrates and Socrates, a place where there are gods in which we should not believe. As Socrates is accused of believing in gods he doesn't believe in, so I from this place inheriting almost Socrates can say I don't believe in Gods that this half state believes in, I don't believe in the standard of humanity that this half state that is capable of letting go of the most violent crimes suspects and then under the pressure of the public, if the pressure of the public is manifested and starts then it's able to sanction them, but not because it wants to deal with crimes, but because they still want to exist as institutions that will cover up the criminal trail of those gods that this half state believes in. From this place, I say, and I see myself as an infidel in such gods, and I am a misanthropist, that I hate that measure of humanity determined by this half state, and that I advocate the measure of humanity and humanity and the completion of the state that must arise in the heroism of the victim and that must arise in the truth that exists in free media, free individuals, the compassionate public and all those who share a sense of social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148097	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148098	And now Mr. Goran Aleksic will speak and present the position of the Club of Representatives of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148099	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Croatian peoples. On Friday 18 October of this year, a historic verdict was passed, not yet in power, but it is historic because the Zadar court ruled that the contract with the currency clause CHF was invaluable. Judge Vilka Škunca ruled that the consumer must receive from Zagreb Bank 630,000 kuna plus a tight interest totaling more than one million kuna. She also ruled that Zagrebačka banka must pay 62,000 court costs and this is now a new step towards the finality of all CHF contracts. Prior to that, the Rijeka court ruled in a case similar. We don't have a single final verdict to make some CHF useless, but we can expect that soon. I have to say why the courts have no choice but to rule that CHF contracts are worthless. First of all, in any contract of any kind, if the object and price of the contract is worthless, the contract is worthless. Secondly, the EU court ruled with its judgments C118/17 and C260/18 if the currency clause in the loan contract is also a worthless contract. So we have a law on mandatory relations that says when the essential components of the contract are worthless, the contract is worthless. We have an EU court that confirms this, the only thing we don't have yet is the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia that this applies to CHF contracts. Because we don't have such a decision, I unfortunately can't invite people now to sue everyone for a worthless contract, I can't do that. I can invite them to sue for damages to contract terms that's for sure to you, but you're suing for a worthless contract I still can't tell anyone. And for this reason, I call on the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to resolve the dilemma of the integrity of the CHF contract as soon as possible. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has no choice but to review one other case in which the price of the shares concerned has decided that the contract in which the zero price has to be zeroed. What was that about? It was that one man sued over the price of shares that were not properly agreed and demanded that only the price of the shares be declared worthless, but then the Supreme Court found that he could not establish a partial integrity on the basis of price integrity because if the price is zero, the contract is also harmful. Thus, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has already established similar cases and has found that it cannot survive a contract with a zero price. And in our case, it's not only a price that's worthless, it's a interest, it's a property, it's a contract, and it's a currency. So there's no dilemma. And for all of this to be like sugar at the end of Judge Radovan Dobronic had an interview on N1 TV on Sunday and he said the same thing. He said it was all clear, the object and the price are worthless and if the property and the price are worthless must be the contract. He just said that people need to be careful, they need to figure out if it's worth it. However, in the case of a loan with the currency clause CHF, it is absolutely worth all to ask for the integrity of the contract, provided that it is established in the Supreme Court that this is the case. Because we've all paid the total amount of credit we've received a long time ago, and in the event that the value of the contract is determined, each party returns what it has received, with a bank that is an unfair acquirer having to pay and tighten interest. I will quote Radovan Dobronic in another statement, he said on Sunday that "banks are brakes for development of the Republic of Croatia". Why? Because in a short time, they want to make money. They don't want to invest in development, they just want to invest in what is fast and express profit. Therefore, all that has been unfairly acquired must be returned, which is about 20 to 25 billion kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148100	Thank you, too. You were right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148101	We are going to the last debate, the eleventh, a colleague of Goran Aleksic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148102	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The Supreme Court shall be governed by the procedure to be laid down by the review on the basis of the judgment of the County Court in Rijeka, whether or not the Supreme Court will change its view on the limitation of claims on the basis of damages to the provisions, so I need to read the position of the Judges of the Government of Skrup, who has reached a verdict on the basis of which the audit is conducted, that is one material legal position that the public must hear. So says Judge Vlado Skorrup. The highlighted objection of antiquity as well as the position of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice which accepts it shall not be established because the determination of invalidity is not subject to limitation or the contract may be strengthened by the time itself. The court's decision may only have a declared character in this work. The annulment of zero contracts shall be undertaken, whether proposed by the party or done by the court under official duty in order to protect the general interest and particularly protected social values, and therefore the limitation of its effects by the deadlines of limitation for this unilateral natural restitution of its effects would affect that institute. It means returning the received, what the previous prosecutors had partially completed by fulfilling the contract, paid off to the predecessor of the prosecutor. It is a means of preventing the effect of the contract which is contrary to the mandatory regulations. The legal consequence of integrity in this case is one-sided and natural restitution in a two-sided mandatory return contract and it cannot be tied to the Institute of Depreciation. As the contract is zero, it cannot be required to meet the agreed rulings and it is considered that the contract did not even arise, and this effect is then fully understandable. Each Contracting Party shall return to its Contracting Party what it has received from it. The position of this court rests consistently on the continuity of the thinking related to this procedure, which had, in the need of sustainability, the meaning of the Institute of Nothingness as a time-limited remedy which is lost without being able to monitor it with the same intensity. To enable one Contracting Party to reach, timeless and timelessly, the right to establish indifference through one comprehensive, lapidar-defined legal norm that affects everything that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to any coercive regulations or morals, and to add to the obligation to return all that a Contracting Party has received on the basis of such contract but only after it has previously passed through a narrow filter of limitation is the opposite of any meaning and interpretation of this form of invalidity of the contract. The legal norm when it comes to the limitation of the right to restitution of a worthless legal transaction should be interpreted in its own sense and not in any sense. It must not be allowed for the right to restitution of an invalid contract in respect of which absolute invalidity does not have a limitation period to be without effect, because otherwise this right becomes illusory. Therefore, the rule of return to the previous situation which, given the nature of the restitution in nothingness, differs from the restitution of other mandatory and legal institutes that are limited by pre-exclusive and out-of-date deadlines, and therefore the limitation of old age would offend the Institute of Vulnerabilities, which is timeless, which is also referred to by retroactive action as one of the essential features. Contracting parties knew or should have known that they had agreed on something illegal because the lack of knowledge of the legal provisions was not an excuse and that the value could not be retained in their assets or because of the integrity of the other contract, nor because of the general interest, which is an integral part of nothing. By accepting an old age for restitution with the beginning of the course of the day of receiving money in this, but also most other cases, there would be a fact that the institute, which precisely because of the prevention of unauthorized occurrences of the conclusion of zero contracts, is acting retroactively and without a time limit. This means, in the case of integrity that acts ex tunc from the moment of conclusion as is the case in this legal matter, restitution is part of that institute, cannot be separately observed from it and cannot be subject to statutes. In other words, imagine that 10 years ago you contracted an illegal legal deal with someone and based on that illegal legal job, someone robbed you 10 years ago by applying illegal contract provisions and you realize it only after 10 years and you sue after 10 years of that someone who robbed you and the court says, you're right, he robbed you, but you can't get your money because you're out of date. Therefore, this audit, which is under way in the Supreme Court, is very important, it is important to change the position of the Supreme Court on statutes so that anyone who has been robbed may receive their money because it has been robbed on the basis of illegal contractual provisions or illegal contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148103	I thank you all for the debate, so let's move on to the agenda now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148104	We move on to the next statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics esteemed counterpart Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148105	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Franak Association, I must say a few words about the review procedure that he has initiated, which is required by the Pazen Municipal Court to be conducted at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The Paz municipality court called on the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to initiate a review procedure to determine whether the conversions were made to CHF loans in EUR-o currency were worthless. The Franak Association considered it together with its legal associates, lawyers and lawyers, and it came to a certain conclusion that is contrary to what the Paz Court is looking for. Namely, this review procedure, which requires the determination of the integrity of the conversions, is neither relevant nor necessary, nor necessary. Why? Because the main issue regarding CHF contracts is the question of the integrity of the contract. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia must first of all determine whether the contracts contracted with the CHF currency clause are null or void. We already have the opinion of the EU court that these are worthless contracts, we have a law that says that price items are worthless, if price items are no good and no contract, and here are zero currency and interest, so it's worthless and the contract. Therefore, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia must determine as soon as possible whether CHF contracts are harmful. The issue of post-conversion compensation has already been resolved, the issue has also been resolved in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and has also been resolved in the EU court. By a ruling of 2868/18, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision that debtors or consumers who converted CHF loans have a legal interest in determining their rights and after conversion. In its judgment of C118/17, the EU Court of Justice also found that consumers whose legislators have possibly intervened in a contractual relationship have the right to nevertheless determine whether they have been compensated. So I will read exactly what the Court of Justice of the EU is saying in its judgment C 118/17. She's binding on our courts. Thus, the Court of Justice of the EU says, the fact that certain contractual obligations under the law have been declared unfair and void and replaced by new provisions in order to maintain the contract in question cannot have the effect of reducing consumer protection as set out in paragraph 40 of this judgment. In this case, although the Vienna case stems from a provision relating to the exchange rate difference originally contained in the loan contract concluded with the bank, it is in the court which referred to the request to verify whether that national law allowed the re-establishment, legal and factual situation in which Vienna would have found that such an unfair provision did not exist, in particular, by establishing the right to return, of the benefit which the trader unjustly acquired on the basis of that unfair provision. What does that mean, translated into the Franak case? This means that it is necessary to determine what has been achieved by conversion and which is reached by a verdict on the same loan. And then by comparing the effects of conversion and the effects of judgment, it determines whether the consumer has the right to compensation or not. And the mathematical comparison of conversion and judgment comes to the following conclusions. The conversion of consumers did not result in overpaid interest, the conversion of consumers did not give them an overpaid rate, the conversion of consumers did not receive a tight interest which is charged on all these overpaid amounts. The reduced capital that has been reduced by a certain amount of money on the basis of a comparison with the euro loan is greater than the principal of what it would be if the remaining CHF principal had converted into a kuna amount of credit at the initial rate. And there it still belongs to that difference of tight interest to the consumer. Therefore, the whole series of elements that point out that the conversion of consumers is not compensated and all that needs to be determined in court is by skill to determine how much compensation it is. Finally, if the CHF contracts are worthless, then it is absolutely harmless and conversion, because everything that follows from a worthless contract, all of the following actions are also harmful to what some of the judgments have already been made. So is the final ruling from Kutina that says it's worthless both the contract and the conversion. So what we're waiting for right now is the Supreme Court's decision on whether CHF contracts are harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148107	The next club of representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA that I do not speak to all and independent representatives and new policy on behalf of which the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On December 7, 1970, it was a dark, cold and wet day in Warsaw. Had it not been for the events that occurred that day, it is certain that the dust of oblivion would have remained since that Monday. But that Monday was meant to be a different fate. The first visit to Germany's Chancellor, Poland, took place on Monday, 25 years after World War II ended. The German Chancellor's name was Willy Brandt but it wasn't his name. His birth name was Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm, and the pseudonym under which the world knew him took him during World War II while in Germany and Sweden he worked as a journalist to avoid being discovered by Nazi agents. Because Willy Brandt spent the entire Second World War actively working against the Nazi regime in his native Germany. In 1938, this same Nazi regime, Willy Brandt, took away German citizenship because he actively fought against it. Willy Brandt insisted. He returned to Germany immediately after the end of the war, soon as a Social Democrats elected to parliament and served as mayor of West Berlin and eventually became president of his party and Chancellor of Germany. This and Willi Brant were found on December 7, 1970 in front of a monument dedicated to the victims of the Uprising in the Warsaw ghetto. He laid a crown, took a few short steps back, stopped and fell on his knees. In this gesture of humility and repentance, Willy Brant spent half a minute. It may sound like a short time, but if I were to remain silent here for half a minute or if you listen to me try to count down in silence those seconds you'd see that it's actually about the whole eternity, and in that eternity, Willa Brant said everything that words don't exist for anyway, all the horror, all the death, all the loss, all the remorse and consciousness that in this world, there's no way to water the wound that the Nazi regime has carved into mankind's history. Willi Brant wrote these words to his memoirs at that time: Under the weight of recent history I did what people do when words fail them, in this way I honored millions of deaths. The reaction to what Willi Brant did was ghastly, a survey conducted in Germany showed that his gesture was 48% of the Germans considered excessive, the opposition immediately launched an appeal initiative for Willie Brant, the initiative ended in failure but only two thin votes. It was only years later that he understood and accepted what he had done that day. Willi Brant devoted his political career to repairing the damage his countrymen have done to the world. He dedicated it to reconciliation. He was reconciliation alive and breathing full of lungs before the war, all the time of the war and after the war. In 2000, German President Johannes Rau stood on the shoulders of William Branta when he became the first man to speak German in Israel’s Knesset. The words he spoke then were as follows: I ask forgiveness for what the Germans did for themselves and for my generation because of our children and our grandchildren whose future I would like to see with the children of Israel, peace is not spoken, peace is lived. Alexander Vukic was invited to be a guest in this high house. Friends and colleagues from HDZ call him a brother, a friend, but he is not. Where Willi Brant changed his name so the Nazis wouldn't find him, Aleksandar Vukic was one of the main thugs and haters in the area of the former Yugoslavia during the entire Homeland War. Where Willi Brant of the Nazi regime was prosecuted and suffered the seizure of statehood, Aleksandar Vukic was one of the ideologists of the Serbian regime. Where Willi Brant kneeled in Warsaw ghetto and showed his penance, Aleksandar Vucic said in Glina that there would never be Croatia, in occupied Sarajevo carrying weapons, in the Serbian assembly that 100 Bosniaks should be killed for each killed Serb. Alexander Vukic's résumé is a résumé of hate and evil. Such a place in this assembly is no place. If you care about a special pie to everyone who gave their lives for Croatia, you have been persecuted and you will not call Alexander Vukic here to anyone who has lost loved. For to wait for this villain as a brother, and then two days later to go to Vukovar and to Ovcara is simply eloquent. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148109	The second debate is SDSS's Club of Representatives and respected counterpart Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148110	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Although it has been three days since the National Day Against Violence Against Women has been marked, I believe that the topic is more than current and that it is necessary to speak more often about it in public. So, in 22.9., it's marked as I said the National Day of Combating Violence Against Women on the Day of Remembrance of the Tragedy of '99. the year took place in the Zagreb Municipal Court when the hearing during the divorce case, the husband killed the wife and the judge, her lawyer, and badly wounded the notary. But it's also a day of memories of all women who have violently lost their lives. So, the topic is current always and because statistics are more than dark and in 2018 535 crimes were recorded in Croatia in which women were victims of domestic violence. Even more alarming is the fact that in the first 8 months of this year, 639 of them must not be forgotten that this is a dark number, which is actually ten times larger, which means that 10 more women are silenced and suffered for one application against the bully. It is known that one of the main obstacles to solving the problem of violence against women is just to increase the number of reports of violence, and the reasons why women suffer are fear of the perpetrators, mistrust in the competent institutions, guilt, environmental pressure, stigma, and that is why each of the above reasons contributes to the fact that sexual violence is added to the least reported crimes, and with the greatest proportion of dark statistics, we actually have 10 to 20 undeclared. Women who have suffered violence for years because of the constant fear and expectation of the next violent episode show symptoms of PTSD, and long-term stress, of course, also leaves consequences for their health. It is difficult to say whether violence is more or more common today than before. That, of course, has also contributed to media campaigns against violence against women whom we therefore welcome and who are to be found in public space. Anyway, it's an opportunity, even if one hundred times again, that violence isn't an individual's business, it's not something that happens to someone else and it's why you have to turn your head on the other side. It is important to recognize him, encourage his wife to report him, force the institutions to do her job, and of course, it is necessary to speak publicly whenever there is an opportunity for this, because violence against women is a monster that hurts us deeply and deeply, more than you can imagine because it mainly comes from those loved and loved, and then a slap is not only a slap but the greatest humiliation and disappointment. The blow isn't a blow that survived this time but fear and uncertainty for the future, and the bruises aren't blue bruises that might fade, every bruise is a sign that you have to say enough and the end because your loved one just broke your dreams. And the women who suffer, they understand and know what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148111	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148112	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, the National Bureau of Statistics published a single table, emigrated and relocated population in 2018 by cities and municipalities, according to its calendar. In fact, this table contains not only 2018 but it contains data from 2001 for all municipalities and cities on immigration, emigration, internal migration and migration abroad. The data when we look at the last 5 years, as well as the media, have been very defeated, Croatia has left nearly 190 thousand inhabitants somewhere. Some and some of the less populated municipalities and cities are additionally empty so we can fear, without exaggeration, that we will have completely empty, displaced spaces that will be difficult to bring back life again. Of the 555 units of local self-government, 463 record a minus. When we look at the table, who looked at it, it is easy to notice that at the loss of a frontal municipality where Serbs are the majority population or relatively numerous. And such municipalities, for example, are Gračac, which has the most negative migration balance, followed by Donji Lapac, Dvor, Vrhovine, Krnjak. If we look only at moving to abroad and municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants then we will also see this devastating statistic that at the very top of the municipalities of Bishop, then there goes Gračac, Donji Lapac, Dvor, Donji Kukuruzari, so it is clear which municipalities are concerned and it is clear that it is the municipalities that are located in the first group of the most underdeveloped municipalities in the assisted areas. It's similar with cities. At the very top are Croatia Kostanica and Knin. If we look at the county level then we see, for example, Sisak-Moslavina County only eviction abroad, last year 2130 residents moved out and in 2017 as many as 3211 residents. For all of these figures, we don't have data on the national structure, which is, as this has affected the national structure, it's actually going to show a list of population from 2021. But what's different and what's important to know about this data is that these data are based on the residence logs carried out by the MUP. In 2016, the MUP checked out the residence of 45 thousand Croatian citizens, i.e. in 2017. 36 grand. Every citizen in the Republic of Croatia has the right to residence and to the 2012 law. The MUP couldn't really wipe anyone alone but only if the citizens do it. Under the current law, therefore we have, two situations need to be distinguished, when a citizen logs out himself and when the police deletes him on official duty. What is important in the House Act is that this law is applied equally to all, that there is no selection, there is no discrimination and that it applies properly. The citizen's obligation to check out his residence only if he permanently wants to move out of the Republic of Croatia. If he moves to a period shorter than a year, he doesn't even have to report it to the police. If he wants to go abroad but is more than 3 months in the calendar year in the Republic of Croatia he also has the right to keep his residence. Now get back to Sisak-Moslavina County. I said it's 2017. 3200 citizens have moved to the State Statistics Institute. And when we look at the table of the MUP, the MUP says he checked out 2.5, nearly 2.5 thousand citizens from Sisak-Moslavina County. So the M.O.P. went alone, either by application, or by targeting and checking out citizens. What am I trying to say? I want to say that we have a package of laws that has been passed, a law on regional development and assisted areas and emigration is spreading like an epidemic, a deadly disease. These data clearly show which ends are the most vulnerable and any calculation and investment in their infrastructure means irreparable delay, and when incorrect application of the Housing Act or its non-application arises, then we have an even bigger problem, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148113	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148114	We're going to another debate, dear colleague Dragana Jeckov on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148115	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. I guess I'm expected to talk about the difficult topics that have been progressing in the media lately and point to the specificities of Croatian-Serbian relations in our country but precisely because of these specific Croatian-Serbian relations in our country, I want to highlight a bright example that happened and did not get the media attention earned. In fact, at the beginning of the summer, the Zagreb City Library organized a quiz to check knowledge from the Croatian language and literature and general culture, all in order to test knowledge for the state's graduation. A exhausted quiz in the form of a real school test took place once a month through a full 7 stages. Among the teams was one who was convincingly the best. The first place was won by three from the Bruno Busic Students' Home of Gajeva. And everything would be so common if it weren't for Serbian Orthodox High School students Katarina Kantakuzina Brankovic. Two students, the winner, come from Dalmatia and one from Slavonia. They are members of the Serb community but it did not prevent them from being the best and winning Croatian-language competition. For those who do not know the school to which these great young people go, follow the Croatian high school program and teaching takes place in Serbian and Cyrillic letters at 130 o'clock is reserved for learning so-called. national groups of subjects, especially separately, are learning the subject of Croatian and Serbian languages. These brilliant young people speak of their school in superlativism and point out the advantages and comprehensiveness of education in it. The opinion is that the public needs to break the prejudices that Orthodox high school is open only to Serbs and only to Orthodox people. This is not a religious school like some religion but a school that prepares an intellectual elite for all the challenges of modern society. These humble and hardworking young people for the 1st place award did not receive prizes of great material value, but free membership in the city library for next year, several gifts from sponsors in the form of school supplies and book vouchers. These young people, in their own way, break down prejudices that often appear too often in society that the Serb community does not accept or lack acceptance and does not love the Republic of Croatia as its own country. This victory three showed us all that Croatia loves each other in this way. Proud of his Serb family and Croatian homeland, he rarely spoke to a world-renowned scientist, Nikola Tesla. And by this example, these disciples showed everyone who they are and how much they love their country. Good for the students and their esteemed professors.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148116	Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148117	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, in recent days and weeks, and those who are ahead of us, we will certainly discuss national holidays, national memorials and the opportunity to remind ourselves that in this context we will be in 2nd year. having the 130th anniversary since the "Beautiful Ours" anthem became and established as the national anthem of this people and this country, '891. between 3 possible options in today's Republic of Croatia Square, the former Kazališ Square, then Marshall Tito Square, was organized the presentation and the choice between the three anthems, the one written on the text of Mihanović's Croatian Homeland, which was Lieutenant of the Austro-Hungarian Army Josip Runjanin, the Serb, took place from Loznica, and born in Vinkovci, died in Novi Sad, born in Vinkovci, and died in Novi Sad on the wave of Ilirism carried by Croatians, Serbs and all others, not only the Slavic peoples, but many patriots who wanted more freedoms in 1846 at the home of the clay merchant Pelesa pled what we listen to today after a few processing and change as a national national anthem. I decided to remind myself of it on behalf of the SDSS Club for two reasons, two, three or four days ago in one daily newspaper, the news came out that no one cares about his grave place in the town cemetery of Successfully in Novi Sad and how the excise charge for that grave and grave is paid by our fellow teacher, the former teacher also seems to me to be a member of the SDP of Croatia Shandor Dembitz and his friend, a newly-sad lawyer Branislav Gulic. This fee is symbolic at its own cost but the symbolism of not caring for that grave is not so small but huge. I don't see any reason why the Republic of Croatia, why the consulate in Subotica or the Embassy in Belgrade or our Ministry of Culture, which is based on the street of Josip Runjanin in Zagreb, would not take that care of that grave site and these few dozen euros paid annual fees for that grave place. That man, like a whole generation like him, deserved it. Likewise, if, of course, the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs disobeys this call, I suggest Mr. President of the Parliament that we consider how to change such a practice, to thank these people for their concern so far but to take over as a country. Of course, it is precious that representatives of the Association of the Croatian National Minority from Petrovaradin come and lay flowers on the day of his death and perform some sort of appropriate ceremony of memory of him. But I think we have to do it the same way. And secondly, the Croatian government has restored the house in which the Croatian anthem called the so-called "Croatian" was performed to encourage members of the SDSS community. Pelesch's house in Clay. And it's marked as a place of state anthem and that's all. We didn't turn it into a state anthem museum. And I call on the Ministry to complete the asset buy-out process and begin to edit that National Anthem Museum.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148119	Now it's Mr. Boris Milosevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148120	colleagues and colleagues. Today, unfortunately, I will speak again about hate speech and, in general, hate crime. It's not the first time I've talked about it in the Croatian Parliament, and probably the last. I think it is important that we talk about this issue because it is important that we and the Parliament recognise the problem in society, how important it is to prevent, process and punish it. And what I think is most important is that we shouldn't get used to the hate speech, we shouldn't get used to it as something normal, something everyday, we shouldn't be indifferent. Sometimes it seems to me that as a problem, we who point to this rather than to indicate the problem, the cause that leads to it, or the consequences that arise. The direct reason I'm talking today is a terrible graphite in Zadar, "Kill a Serb, remove his organs because in the cat's neighborhood they're hungry". The disgusting graphite in Zadar and on the Zadar streets is not a novelty, and unfortunately they are not rare. This is particularly disgusting. What's disturbing in this particular case is that the community service for graphite has not learned from citizens but from the media. Someone in the municipal society told the media that citizens normally report such things, but that no one has reported to them because of this graph. This is due to the fact that citizens get used to it, that's because of the fact that citizens don't react, that they no longer pay attention to killing a Serb or similar graphite, they Googled it. And when that happens, we don't just have a communal problem anymore, it's not just a judicial problem anymore, it's becoming a structural problem of society. As is the case of calls at matches that commentators on television or the audiences in the stands don't hear, and others who watch the game hear, but they think it's part of a cheerleading folklore so they don't mind, and they should all hear and they should be in everyone's way, including judges who judge games that have clear rules on how to deal with such situations. Recently, the English football team played against Bulgaria in Sofia, the Croatian judge tried, twice interrupted the match due to racist cries and Nazi greetings. Many feel that he should have stopped for the third time permanently. When was the home football game interrupted for similar reasons? I found that it was somewhere in 2014, so it's more of an exception than a rule. The games are not interrupted because of singing and shouting that can be characterized as hate speech, and they should. They should break up for us, for our society, not for Europe, not for others. I have already stated, and I will now mention the Council of Europe 2012-2017 report and the report says that there has been an escalation of hate speech in Croatia, mostly towards Serbs, LGBT persons and Roma. We must ask ourselves what will be the period from 2017 to 2020. In the end, yesterday, there were sixteen suspects in the attack below, seven were released to defend themselves from freedom, and I am not going to criticise the court's decision which decided that neither I would question it, but as it is a classic hate crime, I will say this, hate crimes have a problem with non-recognition and inadequate processing and time to both as a Parliament and as a society are starting to deal with it seriously, that we are not looking for imaginary special wars and coups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148121	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148122	We're going to the fifth debate, dear colleague Dragana Jeckov on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148123	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Last week, at the invitation of party colleagues and colleagues, I visited Clay and several villages around Clay. I admit it was a bitter experience for me. Until then, I used to admire Baniian traditional architecture, indigenous wooden houses, which each according to its luxuriant beauty spoke of excellent master builders and their wealthy hosts. I thought so until a few days ago. When I visited several families, as the poorer property is said to be called, I visited poor children. In these seemingly warm wooden houses, luxurious wooden art or in the remains of these houses are quite unconditionally living our children. They live without a bathroom and very often in rooms with others, so they don't have their own. Their desires are certainly different from those that are characteristic of their age because they live in difficult conditions where about everything is conditioned by money that is not available. They're mostly Internet-free, but the lack of Internet is neither their biggest nor their big problem. Their biggest problem is what you can see right away, and that's poverty. Poverty in its most cruel definition. So today I'm talking about a bitter experience of meeting children who have absolutely no life conditions. That is why I am taking the opportunity to warn that it is necessary to act more concretely and more concretely. Maybe right now when the budget is being prepared, when we have clear indicators that we can't ignore because they warn us. Thus, research by the Zagreb Economic Institute says that between 200 and 300,000 children in our country live in poverty, most of them in extreme poverty. They go to sleep without dinner or hungry, when not their parents. The survey further shows that every third poor child does not have his own bed, computer, cell phone, or mention the Internet in advance, and they do not go anywhere for the holidays. Every fifth child in the Republic of Croatia lives below the poverty line, while according to UNICEF data, for more than 20,000 children in the country, the only warm meal their parents from the soup kitchen bring during the day. How much assistance is needed for the socially endangered in Croatia is also shown by EUROSTAT data according to which 27.9% of citizens live on the edge of poverty or social exclusion. This information should be kept in mind when preparing this financial most important document for next year because the fact is cruel but true, our children live in poverty. I repeat, our children live in poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148124	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148125	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Like the public, such as the representatives and representatives of this House, many areas and many settlements in the Republic of Croatia are known especially where members of the Serb community live or where the returnees of the Croats and settlers from other parts of the former country live without electricity and live without water and live without arranged roads, hence the elementary municipal infrastructure. Thanks to the government's actions and thanks to the action of the party on whose behalf I speak and in whose name I speak the club, the electricity will be solved by the end of next year. But the water, the second ever need of areas where these people live, is only at the beginning of the resolution. So according to our record 145 settlements either fully or partially have no water. In Chachins, for example. All the settlements have but one of the settlements where the Serb community has no water. In citizens where there is a source of water that in the privatisation process has gone to the hands of new owners and is sold as one of the better water, natural wealth and the municipality and the area but the surrounding settlements within the municipality of Citizens still have no water. It's a reflection and it's a picture of our condition. He's got property, he's got private property, but there's no state to handle what the constitutional rights of people and what they were until yesterday are their rights. For this reason, I am obliged to remind all my colleagues and colleagues here, especially during this pre- budget period, because today we are starting a debate on the rebalancing, tomorrow on the budget, that 5100 and some households live in the 145 settlements. That 5100 and some households if this keeps going on, they're going to shut down. For as life without a factory, in Slavonia or a workplace is impossible, so life in waterless settlements is impossible in the long run. So in the area of Sibenik-Knin County we have 24 such settlements. In the area of Ličko-Senjska 23, in the area of Karlovočka 26, in the area of Požega-Slavonska 13, in the area of Zadar 15 and in the area of Sisak-Moslavina 15. It is great to see what Zadar looks like both in traffic and in total infrastructure but it is sad and inadmissible as Obrovac looks. And not only the Obrovac, but what Benkovac and his surrounding settlements look like. And we therefore call for this to be changed and at the same time we call on the Government and call on the competent ministry to implement the Law on the restructuring of water supply areas with the aim of rounding and delivering water so that it does not implement, does not implement the planned measure to ensure that settlements in which there are no more than 50 inhabitants and in which there are no conditions for meeting the criteria under the prescribed law that there will be no reconstruction in these settlements and there will be no construction of new water lines. If that's how it is then we can actually shut down most of the area of the Republic of Croatia, we can shut them down, we can power them off, we can shut down their water as we've turned them off more or less, and we can finally tell them We shut you down, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148127	Let's go, let's go to 5, let's go to the 5th debate, Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148128	I thank the esteemed president of HS, distinguished MPs and MPs, in media space these days except for the negotiation process of government and trade unions, educational workers, we have had the opportunity to hear all kinds of views on the issue of minority education in the Republic of Croatia. That is why I am taking the opportunity to say something about this by saying that it is unacceptable in public space to refer to this type of education as a nastaradicated, Stigmatizing, even socially unacceptable, in particular to education in the language and letter of the Serb national minority in the east of the Republic of Croatia, which exists by the way, be said more than 20 years. Cultural and educational autonomy is guaranteed by the Erdut Agreement, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities. So this issue is governed by the laws of our country and does not represent any exclusivity, but should in fact represent a right that other national minorities consume and members of the Serb national minority. The most pronounced violation of the rights of the Serb national minority in the context of education in the language and letter is seen in the multi-annual obstruction and registration of minority schools based on the pre-mentioned and valid laws, as are members of other national minorities in our country. The need for model A, which teaches socially humanistic subjects complemented by the outcomes of learning about the history and culture of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia, exists because education in the dominant language and the letter does not include history or culture, nor the literature written by Serbs in the Republic of Croatia, but neither the historical culture, nor the literature of other minorities in the Republic of Croatia, so we detect it as a serious lack, as well as education in the Croatian language and education in the Serbian language and the letter has been opened since the beginning of all, and it depends solely on the attitude of parents to whom the model will enroll the child where these laws provide. I will mention research by the expert team on the Integra norm project which was presented several days ago, which shows that teaching in minority languages and letters is mostly homogeneous. In the course of Hungarian, we have 54% of participants, whose Hungarian is not native or non-members of the Hungarian minority, who continue in the Czech 46%, and in Italian 27%, as an exception to teaching in Serbian and Cyrillic letters where as many as 98% of students of Serbia or only 2% of Croats or members of other national minorities, this information is not surprising and it is expected to take into account the social political climate in which education in the Serbian language and Cyrillic script is performed and how in which it is spoken, in such an atmosphere in which no tolerance and hatred is manifested as normal behaviour, can be achieved and discriminated education in a minority language, in fact leading to its complete rejection. The fact that in model A, in Serbian and letter, 98% of Serbs only speak about the fact that in Croatian society they still have no awareness of how much heritage is embedded in the Serbian language programme and the letter is irrelevant to the entire history and culture of the Republic of Croatia. It also speaks in a certain way of being infected and imprisoned by the majority against the minority. As for the suggestion that it is important to develop strategies that would contribute to the more acceptable and desirable inter-group contacts, I believe that these associations and activities should not only be reduced to leisure time, but also to the responsibility of education in an institutionalised context. For children to associate with one another, therefore, it is necessary to change the social circumstances in which they grow up and in which education is built. In divided communities where the memory of war is constantly held, where Serbs in Croatia are constantly dehumanised and portrayed as a threat, not as colleagues and friends, acquaintances, family members and fellow citizens, the gap among children is deepening. And no, it's not a problem in education in language and letter, but in nationalism, rhetoric and politics that rely on it and promotes it, and to the extent that nationalism becomes dominant in education and is encouraged in several ethnic environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148129	Now it's the sixth Club of Representatives, it's the Club of Representatives of the Voice and the Honorable Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148130	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the policies run by this government are two different. One policy is that we are leading towards the outside and the picture that we want to leave Croatia in Europe and the world, and another policy that we are leading to inside. And I'm going to show that on a very simple example. Climate change is a topic that is a hit topic in the world not because people deal with it but because climate change is facts. We in this assembly have the opportunity for the first time in Croatia to discuss the law, a special law that will define the conduct of climate change, but regardless of what the UN meeting and the president spoke yesterday and spoke about sustainable development, that is the point that is today in the schedule of the fifth, that means in those late afternoon hours. This should have been immediately the first point of impact to discuss climate change and to discuss what we are actually doing with our little action, which makes the government, which are policies to reduce the impact of climate change and because large countries are dealing with it. I've heard many times, so climate change, so what can we do, so in Croatia there are 4 million of us, so we don't have much. The fact is that when you watch the emissions that we have CO2 that Croatia is in a decisive position. Why? Because we have a situation that was from the '90s when all the investments that Croatia had in some other countries and because we don't have industry, and that's why it's great. But if we treat it that way, it won't be great. The same way Germany could say, so we're the 4 economies of the world so what we can do for climate change is something China should do, if China and America don't do anything doesn't mean what we're going to do, it won't mean much. It's actually wrong. Governments, individual countries' policies must now run policies to mitigate climate change. There are three very simple things that can already be done. The first thing is about importing cars, which are rampantly imported diesel cars into Croatia. Croatia is already a cemetery of old cars and one problem is that they are now pollutants, but another problem is when they stop using their care is incomparably more complicated or more difficult than taking care of other cars. You can do this by subsidising for all those who import cars that are in high energy classes or that are, in that sense, really environmentally acceptable. The other thing is, Croatia had a traditionally good construction industry. In the construction industry, when a product is produced by recycling existing construction waste, I see no reason why it does not support and says to its subsidies and its state policies, we support the use of waste in the construction industry, get new products by recycling, and in this sense we are actually talking about how Croatia is fighting climate change. And the third thing is your railroad theme. We're talking about railroads and it's been three, four years and we're talking about railroads again. Other EU countries are absolutely preparing for new situations, which is that the railway is used for transport not only by goods but also by passengers, to make as little use of cars as possible, to turn traffic into rail traffic. What are we doing in Croatia? We have a railroad that after 30 years will probably be restored and can be used. And there's no movement. Today, it's normal for someone to work in Milan and live in Bologna. It would be normal for someone to work in Ljubljana and live in Zagreb, or live in Zagreb and work in Vienna. Without rail quality traffic, it will not be possible, but if we don't move, and we don't do it now, all of those EU funds at our disposal will be closed. And so, in conclusion, you can't go out and talk about climate change and how you stand for it, you have to do it here in this country with an active policy, and one of the things to say that really well we think it would be good if today's first point was the Climate Change Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148131	The next Club of Representatives is that voice on behalf of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148132	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. By the way, I'm talking about behind Mr. Curray, he's supposed to be behind me, but he's mistaken for Mr. Zekanovic, so I'm going to do a little education reform, but maybe from another point of view, another way with another story. When it comes to reform, any reform, the reforms do three things. The first thing is content, the second thing is conditions and the third thing is people. At this moment, 463 thousand 888 students are enrolled in Croatia, which is in secondary school, which is 45 thousand less than it was enrolled 5 years ago. When we talk about the content of any reform, you must not reform and should not implement it under laboratory conditions, the reform should be implemented in real life. If you've noticed anything, it's more and more often those who spend so-called. reform is not about education reform, it's about school for life. When we talk about content, the contents of course are first and foremost curricula, these are the curriculas and the programs by which teachers and professors teach about what they learn and why, as they learn, when they learn and where they learn. And when you go into such a reform then it should cover everything from kindergarten age, through primary schools, to secondary schools, and of course to higher education because higher education requires a really special free exposure or situation that we have in college. When it comes to terms, it's not about laboratory conditions, it's about actual conditions. Croatia does not only seem to Zagreb, Croatia does not only make up the county in the north, Croatia does also Slavonia, makes and Dalmatia so few needs to look at the conditions there and under what conditions it is working there. And we come up with these key things, and they're people. People always forget, the least people care about. About how many students, about the alarming situation, that we have less and less students. There's something else we're talking about, but we're absolutely forgetting the people our children have taught and who are teaching our children. That is why it is convenient that, indeed, not speak to a resolute minister about reforming education but about a school for life. And this is a real school for life, a school for life that will teach children that those who need them to educate their justice and their working conditions are looking for on the street. The school of life that says the problem you have can be solved in two ways, one way is to move out of this country to Ireland or another country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148134	Next is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash, taking the stand of the GLAS Representatives Club. Here's a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148135	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, there is no one who would not like to live in a clean, decent, open country, and that is the future we want for Croatia. And we expect you to see that through the debate that was today, through the debate that was yesterday when we talk about education all of us are saying it's important education and we all agree that it's really important to have quality and good education. And then we get to the real situation and I'm going to continue my exposure on behalf of the GLAS Club where I left off yesterday. This year, there were about 42,000 places for children in higher education, 11251 places left unfulfilled. Not because the graduates applied so they failed, but because there were no children to enroll the additional 11.251 unfulfilled place it is about a quarter. And then when you get a little bit into the statistical data, it's really clear to me. In 2015, around 36,000 graduated, there were 35,000 places in colleges, 2018. 32,000 graduated from colleges was 39, and in 2019 39,626 children graduated from high school, of which the state graduated from 30,146, and we have 42,000 seats in colleges. Where's the disproportionate? One is that the family has been evicted, the children have gone somewhere else or are studying and working. The other thing is what we pay from the state budget, yesterday was a debate on the implementation of the state budget paid for these 42,000 places because something, some of which became due to political trade, didn't become something of a university, and then in political trade HDZ agreed to some things that they would not agree to before and some colleges still got certain benefits that they hadn't been before. But at this point, we don't have anyone to sign it up. So, the problem needs to be solved now, not solved for two or three years is actually out of the state budget paid unfulfilled places in colleges that there is no one to fill. What is still very alarming, which is that the number of fallen students at the prom in 2009/2010. either 105 or 0.8%, 2016/2017. was 425 or 3.3%, and in the school year 2018/2019. The number of children burned at the prom was 1,100 or 10%. What would be the task of the competent ministry and the minister to see why 10% of children fell to graduation this year. Why did that number grow so significantly? What's the problem? Is the question at prom being asked and running a program by someone who doesn't participate in high school education? Our high school education is certainly in some kind of problem, or question, of how these children are educated. If we want to have quality education, then we need to answer it all. I haven't had a chance anywhere to see the answer that the ministry is doing to reduce the number of quotas in colleges because at this point it's time to do it, because there's no one to sign up for colleges. There is no one for the reason that Croatia is at the bottom of the number of foreign students who study with us. Let's say 0.17 foreign students study in Croatia for a thousand inhabitants, and in the Czech Republic it is 4.18 or in Estonia 2,48. So, I don't have any domestic kids to sign up for, we're not interested in parties, and our education is such that every year we have an increase in the number of kids falling to prom. It's really an alarming condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148136	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148137	Now it's the club representative of GLAS and esteemed colleague Goran Beus Richembergh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148138	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, on several occasions and here in the Croatian Parliament, has fallen heavily on some MPs and some parties accusing them of populistism. He declared his allergy to populist ideas, but in nature it is he who feeds populism in Croatian politics. Here's a few days or weeks since this story started, we've been having fun and we'll have a few more weeks mostly through the presidential campaign on whether or not to reset state holidays and holidays in the Republic of Croatia. It is obviously now the most important thing we need to solve and do it urgently in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what the arguments are. On the one hand, we are forced on 30 May, which is actually one of the two most important dates in the history of HDZ, of course parallel and Croatian Parliament, because then the Assembly was established as a multiparty parliament after several decades. But here we have an interest in HDZ as an interest in the state. On the other hand, it is forgotten that we already have Statehood Day, in honor of 25 June 1991, when this Croatian Parliament made a decision on the independence and independence of the Republic of Croatia. So, everything has its own logic, but there it is, it's turning the whole story again so we can have fun in the election campaign. On the other hand, the Civil-Liberal Alliance warns that there are a whole set of topics that are extremely important and that should be dealt with both Parliament and government. One of the things we want to underline here is the current situation on the Croatian labour market on the one hand, on the other hand, about our demographics, on the third hand, about the functionality of the entire sectors in the Croatian economy. At this time, as you know, the labour force drain is already taking very, very serious proportions, says 380 000 people who left after our entry into the EU, among them are many people who are professional, highly educated and depended on by the entire sectors. So it's white that this hour, construction, tourism, hospitality and medicine, or our health care system, suffers from a great shortage of people precisely due to drains. At this time, if you have any problems in the house, so you have to wait for these interventions as if you were enrolled in a Croatian hospital on the MR. We've got as many companies as we've had before but employees who work in them and do it, at least one three times less. On the other hand, the Croatian healthcare system suffers from a chronic lack of doctors and nurses, and this is a trend that will worsen. On the third hand, hospitality and tourism also already have cases this season that a large number of catering facilities have not worked at all in the morning and during the day but only in the afternoon and evening because there is no more labour. We must be aware that the tanks from which we can draw both seasons and others that we miss are all narrow and narrow and that it is not good to talk about it in May or June because it is too late, right now we need to talk about it and allow entrepreneurs to freely, without any quotas, on the basis of their needs, initiate procedures for issuing work permits and importing labour where necessary. So let's not wait for the last moment, right now we need to liberalise this situation, lift the quotas and allow entrepreneurs to freely attract labour to preserve our own economy. If tourism and the hospitality of this hour are 20% of GDP, if we have entire sectors that are under collapse because there is no one to work, then let us react in time because it is a question of the future, it is a question of who will fill our budget, it is a question of who will fill the funds from which pensions and health insurance are drawn, we must not have a non-sharp relationship. These are the real topics, don't argue about when it was Statehood Day or whether we have it or not, but let the Croatian economy be saved and the labour force drain stopped. Now you have a situation where our surrounding countries, for greater wages, of course, suck out a huge number of our seasonal labour force, and it's going to get even worse. This should be discussed, this should be considered and the government is key to making such moves that will allow these problems to be solved in time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148139	It is now up to GLAS's club and respected counterpart Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go. Just because you're scheduled to know, then at 10:30 we'll start with the government's report, so it's possible if we finish early that we'll have a break. At 10:30, we usually start at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148140	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, since unfortunately the main topic of the past 24 hours has been the Croatian judiciary and we, on behalf of the Citizens' Liberal Alliance, have the need today to say a few words about this ruthless event, which unfortunately is not the first unfavorable event in our judiciary, or perhaps it would be better to call it an excess, but rather an unfavorable event that tells us not only about the judiciary but about society and the state as a whole, and that is what is saddening, which makes people in the Republic feel bad, uneasy, uneasy, because it is the courts, it is the judges that are making bad decisions. These days, of course, the question of whether we should be involved in politics or talking about what and how courts do? We should have started talking a lot harder about this long time ago, although I am a personal advocate of the very harsh division of power and full independence of the judiciary, I am personally an advocate, as well as a party I represent. However, when the judiciary slips in this way as it slipped in the Republic of Croatia, then who but politics, who but this one, this body means HS which is a legislator according to the laws passed by this HS, judges. Who should say that what is happening is not good, which should have long ago said that what is happening is not good and that it should be stopped, perhaps the judges themselves because we see in these past 24 hours how from the position of the top authorities, executive authorities, HDZ who chose most judges, let's be quite open here right now, most judges in the Republic of Croatia actually directly chose HDZ. Such judges judge minors, in this case the victim and perpetrators of minors, you must understand the indignation not only of the policy that may sometimes be used for its own promotion, you must understand the indignation of the entire population, the normal citizenship of the Republic of Croatia who has been watching what has been happening for the last 24 hours. The Voice has proposed some laws in due time that would fix this system of justice for young people, to establish regional courts, just family courts for processes for young people. Unfortunately, it wasn't even considered, not only did the answer come about that we don't need anything. How much of this kind of thing does it show up on this example? Why is everyone up? Well, because this is an example that really touches everyone. You know that some Mamic who's convicted can escape to BiH, it touches and doesn't touch everyone in the Republic of Croatia, but each of us has a child, each or most of us has children, most of us have some young people in our nearest environment that hurts, who are everything to him in the world. I can't even imagine a mother after this decision was made the other day and that little girl's father. This situation where they probably need to escape from the Republic of Croatia, so it seems to them that some of us are being advised, that from the Republic of Croatia all normal and honest and moral people have to leave or they're going to leave because we're not able to respond adequately, people have to wake up, we've had to wake up a long time ago, but I think that really this example was the last moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148141	With great pleasure, I'd like to ask Mrs. Poirot. Anku Mrak-Taritash to take his word for it. So let's change our tone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148142	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. This morning began quite unusually, so I had at one point an irresistible desire to dedicate my free speech to Zagreb where you can't find the body bag I asked for yesterday, so I couldn't find it, but I really won't use these five minutes because I really don't want to turn this pay phone and this Assembly into something that doesn't need and which in public provides an ugly picture of all of us. But I will dedicate my free speech to the state of justice. We're on our way with the judiciary today, and we'll definitely end up with the judiciary. The independence of the Croatian judiciary must not and cannot be an alibi and some cover for unhappiness, disorder and incompetence. Our judiciary is the cause of people's mistrust in the country, and it's well-determined for investor indetermination to invest in our country. We in the voice party have suggested that one of the ways in which we can solve it and the government of course continuously rejects, this is a clear criterion for assessing the work of judges. And we appreciate that's step one. What would these clear criteria be? These clear criteria would be to know exactly which judge, how many cases he works, to define the way in which quality work can be rewarded and the reluctantness and disorder sanctioned. To be prescribed by law, not discretion of the State Judiciary Council. Our proposal provides for the possibility, the increase in judges' salaries by 30%, and those who consciously carry out their work and sanctions for those who do not do so with the possibility to step away from their duties in the most difficult situations. Why is that? So we have the results of the 2017 European Network of Judicial Councils. 43% of our judges, so they gave the assessment themselves, say that judges are not named based on abilities and experience, but on some other criteria. In the EU, when judges were evaluated, they were rated 25%. And also 55% of judges believe that judges advance on other grounds rather than on the basis of ability and experience. That data is terrible. These data also indicate that judges are aware of the problems themselves, and this is the cry of the judges themselves to urgently resolve the problem, i.e. that the appointment and advancement of judges should be by clear, pre-arranged criteria. And that was a proposal, that is, part of the party's proposal to the Citizens' Liberal Union. In Croatian courts at this time we have 10,000 cases that are over 10 years old. In public, of course, one frightening case has caused great attention. About the average we've been able to get for 6.5 years is the average that solves cases related to rape, those who are perpetrators get less than those cases in courts. You will see today there will be a report that says that 300 days is necessary to resolve cases in civil and criminal proceedings. What the EU estimates is that we are the worst in the EU by the number of pending cases, that the availability of information in the judicial system is disastrous, that we are among the latest according to the standards of information on the state of the case and the line of availability of the judgments carried out. We are among the three worst EU members at the disposal of education for judges. So listen to the judge, listen to 55% of the judges who said judges are progressing on some other grounds, not progressing based on ability and experience. And as long as that's the case, we'll still have judgments that are frightening, judgments that speak of the fact that something is wrong in Croatia's judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148143	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148144	We're going to the next debate, honorary colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, GLAS Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148145	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, in public Croatian space lately, we have some things that happen, which are regularly repeated and that don't even entertain the Croatian public anymore, citizens who will one day go to elections and on the ballot they get will round up any name or party. We have a president who decided her campaign regarding the next term of office, which is 2020/2025. based on the subject of yogurt, on the subject of the iron curtain and on the subject of the naked island. We have a budget at the door where they are clear, which is unclear, which is the secret messages of coalition partners to the ruling party, in a coalition of the strongest party, I will support the budget for this reason, for that reason. There's one thing I'm not gonna use here, but what a surprise, that's just the way it is. The same is true all the time and the debate about the GUP of the City of Zagreb which is one, I would say, an absolutely inadmissible document that Mr Bandic as Mr Plenkovic's coalition partner will thus be blackmailing the budget and blackmail has become something that is absolutely in the political life of the Republic of Croatia something that is normally used and those who most say that they are not actually the most blackmailed of each other. But underneath all that, under the radar of all that, there's still one process going on. Construction or construction is something that is traditional in the Republic of Croatia, something that is well done, something that is a good product. 5,000 construction heads will stop being members of the chamber just because they're paying membership fee 125,00 kn per month and under cover of 125,00 kn per month we'll say we don't need those people. In doing so, if something happens during the construction process, there are three people who will be detained by the MUP at the same time and who will be responsible for it. The first will be the designer, the second will be the head of the construction site and the third will be the supervisory engineer. The whole profession says, don't do it, don't pass those laws, don't prepare those laws, don't do us any harm. That damage has a step further. Now permitting any of these colleagues to go to work in other EU countries to issue a chamber to which they belong. Now everybody's in a hurry looking for those passes 'cause they're gonna go work outside. But after the law is passed, we have the next case. Someone who's working outside and who's gonna come here as construction chief won't have to go through any more checks. What was in our tradition, what we could be proud of, what we said when the viaduct came down over Genoa, so we said, it's hard to happen with us, we're well regulated, we're well-accounted, we have quality construction, we have good supervision, which is going to be in the future, we don't know. And behind all this stuff that fills the space, those people aren't going out. These people won't stand in Mark's square under the presidential offices and yell why. Because they're on the construction site. Why? Because they do. Why? Because they've worked before and they'll work later, but just to hear one too many reasons why we're changing the laws that are well regulated and those who work under these laws of godfathers and pray, don't change our laws, our laws are good, they've put order in our profession, they've put order in our business, but we're all the answers are savings. The savings are 125 kn for one person at the level of a month. In doing so, they all have millions of kuna shelves for damage that one might do. Those shelves are for investors. By law like that, who's gonna end up getting hurt? Investors and investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148147	We move on to the next presentation of the position on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, respected colleague Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148148	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have another topic in which people in Croatia have their throats. It's about the problem of housing, especially for young people who need to be left alone and start a life outside their parents' home. Unfortunately, most young people in Croatia are inaccessible, we don't have to guess, we don't have to divulge, the data we have is inexorable and say the following. 48.6% of residents in rented residential areas in Croatia are overburdened by housing costs. What does it mean, overloaded? This means that more than 40% of total annual income is spent on housing, which is the average of the EU, just to be seen, we are 26.3%, which means that 4 are the worst in the whole of the Union. We are the fourth worst and according to the overcrowding of living space in cities, or in simple language, when I speak in one apartment for several generations, we are certainly familiar with the example we see around ourselves and the number of living space per person is far too small compared to the other EU member states. What all the data we can come up with is about the fact and the same thing when we turn around and see, we don't have too many, total, clear housing policies. We don't have a country level, but we don't have a city and municipality level. When we talk about decentralisation, our mouths are often full of decentralisation in this pay phone, then one of the topics of decentralisation is safe and housing policy because housing can develop in municipalities and cities. Living is one of the basic needs of every man, and if that doesn't work, it won't do anything else. When we swear on demographics and swear on demographics, housing is one of the biggest problems and young people say that as soon as possible they decide on a life together and on parenting and when they have to list what the problem is, housing is one of the problems. As we've been saying lately, I'd say in the last 20, 30 years, how we've dealt with the problem of housing. First, we solved the sale of social housing in which it became a household law, which, frankly, was not solved. We're starting a POS project. Every project that is imagined should be developed, developed, upgraded, it was a good project that has obviously died or not entered a higher phase lately, but we have decided to subsidise housing loans that have limited reach regarding the measures, but what all experts are telling us on the other hand, and it would be really wise to listen to them at least, and that is that this measure has significantly contributed to the rise of real estate prices in Croatia. This shows us the data, every time we announce that the program is moving, we have a price explosion, but what we have, we also have a case of sub-population where sub-population is, and I'm talking about what's of interest and that's the capital and space in the sea, it's growing to the vertigo proportions. Absolutely the prices started, went to heaven not only if you want to buy but also if you want to rent an apartment. The situation at one point and I think this moment has become unsustainable. And we somehow expect that the most productive part of our society from those we expect to carry heavy burdens on their backs and economic and demographic reconstructions of Croatia, and the situation is that these people cannot afford a decent apartment. We therefore need to solve the problem of renting apartments with smart and designed policies. And that's one way we can do it. We've had a chance to see through the past two today that the prime minister met with the mayor of the capital and indeed declaratively, terribly concerned about the birth rate, but unfortunately such a project at the meeting couldn't speak clearly of all these important topics, they didn't get to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148149	I thank my esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148150	We're going to the 3rd debate, the GLAS Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148151	Dear Mr. President, on the trail of the topic opened by my colleague Miranda Mrsic, I would like to protest against the practice of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this term of office of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic because a little more than a month ago, when we discussed amendments to the system of government regulation here in the House, we were assured that the reduction of the number of assistants or the abolition of that duty was actually on the trail of the reduction of the state administration and the total apparatus, and now we see that this is not only because instead of 88 assistants, we are now looking for 97 directors of the administration. Of course, we're trying to push one counterargument and that's that there's a lot more administration than there is assistant and that now those places that haven't been emptied have been advertised in competitions. However, it is a reflection of an old model, which is that it is a broader possibility to carry the systematizations of jobs and that the state administration is actually expanding as an octopus, as a flood. I warn or repeat the warnings of all those who have analysed the relationship of our system of state administration, not only according to the number of people who are being reduced but also according to the size of the country and according to the powers of certain bodies, that our state and local self-government towards conservative estimates has at least 25% more employees than is really needed in the era when digitalisation enters the system, when many jobs are actually needed to cancel because of this and we are increasing the number of employees in the state and local self-government and at a time when the labour market is crying for labour, when the government is bringing a measure of the only possible at this time, and this is the abolition of foreign workers' import quotas because they cannot find enough labour force on the domestic market and at least 1/4 of them working now in state and local self-government, working on fict, invented jobs, in principle, doing nothing and that they do not work at work tomorrow, no one would notice. I guarantee because I know the situation from my city when I left the deputy mayor's post, there were 92 people working there, now doing more than 200. Meanwhile, the city has not received any new authority. Then if it hadn't been for 1/3 of people to come to work, no one would have known it, and now that there's 100 more, the question is, what are they even doing? And we have imbalances, while in some segments of the state administration, say in the embassies, let's say in the police, because by taking on obligations to establish the Schengen border, we have a different type of obligation and in humane terms, so the police now have to hire retired police officers to do their job. So on the one hand, we have a deficiency and on the other hand, a huge number of surpluses. But it's a way of impregnating, it's a way of buying political favor, it's a way of buying someone's support in the election. It's not good because it just proves that HDZ when it talks about depolitisation of state and public administration, it actually works quite the opposite. All these people that are here, 97 of them, compared to 88, mostly come from a circle of people who support HDZ or are members of them. This should be warned and it should therefore be warned that only the Government, the only administration that consents immediately in the first six months. to cut the government's mandate and cut local self-government, for at least 25% of people, under 1 really means good to this country, 2 really means good to this country's economy because it's not normal for the economy to have fewer employees than it is for pensioners and what it is for those who work in the state administration. And to actually make a real balance between those who in the state administration and the local self-government create a new value by doing the jobs that are being charged, and the fact that they're from the communal directors up and up, that they're actually multiplying the number of those who don't even know what they're doing. In this sense, I am announcing the question, I will refer to the Law on the right to access information, how many people work in the Croatian Assembly as officials and since and by what professional qualifications to see 151 how many people actually come into this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148152	Thank you. We're going to the fourth debate, and I'm sorry, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Branko Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148153	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238, I had an intention of raising a tile when Mr. Mrsic spoke, but I counted on him to forget a lot of things or talk about what he didn't know, so then I didn't lift a tile, but now the same thing is happening to Mr. Beus Richembergh. Well, it's clear to you, Mr. Beus Richembergh and Mrsic, that a tender can only be opened for what has been systemised, that 10 ministerial assistants are less than the competition is scheduled, that is, for the simple reason that some have resigned, some have left and there are fewer ministerial assistants than they should have been appointed in the systematization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u148154	Comrade Bačić, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this was a replica and you're getting a warning. We're moving on to the agenda now. First point today: - Final proposal of the Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the European Union, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 637; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. So I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is a respected Zdravko Zrinašić State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149286	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Today you are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the European Union. The debate on the draft law was concluded on 30 May of this year and the Croatian Parliament reached its conclusion at its 12th session on 14 June adopting the draft law, while all objections, proposals and opinions are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. In this respect, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established this final draft law on 11 July and otherwise the law, as it was first stated, represents the implementation of the EU Council Directive No. 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017 on mechanisms for resolving tax disputes in the EU. The objective of adopting the Directive itself is to remove or limit the negative effects of double taxation of the profits of entrepreneurs in different Member States on cross-border investments. The application of the current dispute resolution mechanisms in the EU is not unique, and very often there is no obligation for Member States to ensure timely and effective dispute resolution resulting in an unstable environment for both taxpayers and tax authorities themselves. In fact, certain dispute resolution mechanisms related to double taxation are currently in place between Member States, and most often this is in force in the context of the agreement on a double taxation avoidance treaty and the related meaning of the EU arbitration Convention on Transfer Prices-related Disputes, which is the 1990 Convention. However, these two instruments have several shortcomings in terms of the very extent of efficiency and efficiency. The available information also provides evidence in cases where access to common arrangements is denied, procedures blocked or delayed or the burden on taxpayers due to compliance with the tax obligation is too high. The negative impact of these shortcomings is increasing due to the globalisation trends in the growth of cross-border transactions and the complexity of tax rules. In order to find the best solution that Member States would take in their legislation, a directive has been adopted which combines the existing mechanisms with the resolution of double taxation disputes in the EU with binding arbitration. This kind of approach... During consultations at EU level, the general support of stakeholders from entrepreneurs, NGOs, private persons and other interested public and numerous Member States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the aim of the implementation of the EU Council Directives is to improve the mechanisms for resolving double taxation disputes in the EU itself in order to ensure an effective and effective settlement of disputes in the event of double taxation with full elimination of double taxation as the ultimate objective. The emphasis, therefore, is on improving existing mechanisms with a view to creating a reasonable timeframe for the EU's uniform and wider application area and on increasing the effectiveness and security of the dispute settlement process and so on. the final decision provided for in this final draft law. Such a solution should create added value for the EU acquis in the field of taxation, particularly in the context of transfer pricing in terms of efficiency and enforceability. According to this final proposal of the law, any taxpayer resident in a Member State whose taxation is directly affected and the subject of the dispute is authorised to object to the matter of the dispute to the competent authority of a Member State requesting its resolution. Only the competent authorities are, as a rule, the tax administration... Member States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions of this final draft law will apply to all objections lodged from the date of entry into force of this law. About... the dispute in the tax year starting on or after 1 January 2018 and which cases of the dispute relate to income, profit or capital, if caused by this, an additional tax liability or an increase in the tax liability or the cancellation or reduction of losses that could have been used to reduce the tax liability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In essence, the process goes initial in terms of the submission of an appeal by a taxpayer which can be submitted within 3 years of the receipt of the first notification of the procedures which have or will have consequences for the taxpayer, which are not in accordance with the international contract or convention, whether the taxpayer has access to the legal means,... national law of any Member State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The dispute settlement process based on this final draft of the law takes place in two phases. In the first instance, the competent authorities of the State are trying to resolve the dispute with common agreement, if they fail within the prescribed time limit, then in the second stage, the taxpayer may require the establishment of an arbitration body to resolve the dispute. Otherwise, this first phase is predicted by the law to last 2 years. Extraordinary and only exceptional may be extended by 1 year, and as regards the resolution of the arbitration authority, it can be resolved within 6 months, exceptionally, extended by another 3 months. Therefore, in addition to the procedural provisions, this final draft law contains the prescribed deadlines for the handling of taxpayers and competent authorities at both stages of the procedure. If the joint agreement of the competent authorities failed to find an agreement on how to resolve the dispute, then, at the request of the taxpayer, the competent authorities should establish an advisory commission to resolve the dispute. Otherwise, the Commission shall consist of independent prominent persons who propose the competent authorities of the Member States concerned and of representatives of each competent authority. Instead of the advisory committee, Member States may set up an alternative advisory committee to resolve disputes which may also be established in the form of a permanent committee. This commission, unlike the previous one, may, where appropriate, apply any other dispute resolution procedure or technique to resolve the dispute in a binding manner. After the Advisory Committee or the Alternative Dispute Resolution Advisory Commission delivers its opinion to the competent authorities or all Member States, it is mandatory to agree on how to resolve the dispute cases within 6 months by means of the final decision mentioned earlier. In particular, the competent authorities may take a final decision derogating from the opinion of the Commission, but if the procedures of the agreement fail, on how to resolve the case of the dispute, that opinion obliges them. The difference is the difference between the text of the first reading bill and this final bill, and in order to improve its provisions. In the text of the final draft of the law, certain new technical amendments to the sentences and the addition and corrections of certain provisions of the text of the law have been made, in accordance with the observations of the HS Legislative Committee in the debate held during the first reading and the opinions of the competent authorities given in the ordinary procedure. In this respect, I will teach to make more significant improvements and corrections, i.e. in art. 10 A more precise selection of the chairman of the advisory committee is defined, i.e. if members of the commission agree differently, it is prescribed that the president is the judge of any EU Member State. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 11 independent prominent persons appointed by the Croatian competent authority have been specified and it is specified that the Croatian competent authority is reporting to the EU Commission. Further to Art. 12. In order to be more precise, it has been amended, i.e. the revised provision of Article 3 which speaks of the types and techniques of arbitration, then amended the title of Chapter V. in such a way that the EU text is a commission, the role of the EU Commission and administrative support, deleted, or replaced by the text of administrative support, and in Article 12. The administrative support of the Croatian competent authority has been specified in a way that is united in one paragraph, in a way that has been unnecessarily removed from paragraph 4 or deleted. Finally, at the request of the Legislative Office, Art. 24. has been completed and amended in order to avoid the retroactive action of the law itself. As mentioned in the first reading, as regards the implementation of the Directive... the benefits at present at the level of taxpayers or Member States of all Member States, there are no detailed quantitative data and forecasts available. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, what was estimated and data that were processed in the implementation of the directive itself are data available at the EU level in terms of 910 cases being solved and which, whose size or value is 10.5 billion euros, corresponds to 3% of the total EU profit tax in that year of 351 billion euros. As for the RH itself and statistics for the past 3 years, we also mentioned it to you, during the first reading, I'll just mention it briefly. So, they are, and are still being led through a joint agreement under the arbitration Convention and in accordance with the double taxation agreements which the Republic of Croatia currently has 63 and are still 3 which will be applied at 1.1 next year. Out of 16 such cases, they are 10 from 2016, 3 from 2017 and 18 years. The procedures themselves relate to transfer prices, 3 procedures and the other 13. For now, only one procedure has been resolved, and according to these CDO calculations for the Republic of Croatia average time, since only one unfortunately is 48 months. In that sense, we believe and hope that this law will speed up and improve the resolution of such disputes. In addition to insufficient detailed quantitative data and forecasts regarding the implementation of Directives and expected benefits, there are no quantitative data available in administrative costs for tax authorities in the context described above. Therefore, the implementation of this final bill will provide funding under the regular activity of the Ministry of Finance, however, will require Member States' tax administrations to launch the necessary investment in resources and administrative capacity to achieve the objectives set internationally. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149287	I thank the Secretary of State. We have two replicas, first mate Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149288	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that the EU is systematically dealing with the issue of redistribution of money or the tax system, however, the basic problem of the EU is not in the tax system but in the monetary system which is bound by debt and debt that is not repayable, because the money for the payment of interest does not exist, and it emits all the money as a debt. Thus, the total debts of all EU countries from year to year are growing, resulting in tax increases and other austerity measures, the type of introduction of new taxes and the reduction of citizens' rights. Unfortunately, our government is a puppet, so it is not at all interested, and we are simply interested in this issue, meaning the processes of creating money for the role of the European Central Bank, but also our Central Bank are not at all engaged. And we should because monetary policy has a marked and direct impact on tax policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149289	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149290	Thank you very much to Mr. Representative for his comments. It is not as much as an inquiry, and in the context of monetary policy, I would not comment on this part in view of today's subject, as the jurisdiction of the CNB is first and foremost. But as far as tax returns are concerned with this topic today, I'd just like to mention that in conclusion with this next fourth round of tax reform compared to three years ago, the tax burden will drop more than 10 billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149291	Comrade Lalovac, you're second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. So just for a little while, I see that you said that for Croatian entrepreneurs that there are 16 disputes only one of which has been resolved, so I'm just wondering if this applies to maybe only one country, do we have a problem with only one country or is it extended, do we have any standard of that? And the second question is, did you say that it seems to me to be a two-year commission and yet this arbitration for six months, is it possible that at EU level it might have been debated whether it was too long for some investors who invest, who invest that in two-and-a-half years some kind of dispute would be resolved? Do they always say that in Croatia very difficult and slow disputes are being resolved, etc., that this takes a long time, and now we see that even in EU directives, it is being set as a deadline for some two years. Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149293	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149294	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So as far as the first question is concerned, it is no longer a state, primarily our neighbour Slovenia, Austria, Germany, France. This is one of the disputes that we've had and that's settled, which we've won, so it seems to me that it depends on which states we're doing the most business. And in that sense, if the tax burden is uneven in terms of the taxpayer himself, these disputes have taken place. As far as these deadlines are concerned, you're right, and I can't say in any way embarrassingly surprised, but the length of the duration of the disputes is also in other EU countries that are an example in their legislation, so our actions now seem to us not to be moving in the context of their actions, but we are in some things and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149295	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List and Tomislav Panenic. Dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149296	Thank you very much. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In fact, this topic by name may not open up enough insight to people behind this, but the issue of taxation within the country, especially within the countries that make up the community as the EU, is something which is one of the crucial issues of Croatian politics that will be led. And now I'm going to try to make it as simple as possible, the Secretary of State himself mentioned transfer prices, meaning in taxing any business entity, of course everyone watches where the taxes are the smallest. And then our entrepreneurs some decided to transfer their headquarters to another country where they would have lower taxes. And also many companies are created in such countries, but they continue to operate in the Republic of Croatia, and then it happens to us where we have multinational companies connected to each other and then the issue of transfer prices is a way of leading a policy that is good for a multinational company, but it's bad for example. for one branch which is in the Republic of Croatia. For example, it is the INA that is through a hidden connection whether they have ownership but are not entirely related to transfer prices determined the amount of INA profits, whether through its business success or not. All this time INA is the one that gets those key raw materials through MOL, through joint procurement. And then that's where we ask the transfer price question, which should be the mechanisms that the Ministry of Finance has to control. However, this control is extremely demanding, the capacities are extremely weak so that we can deal especially with such large demanding systems in which proving that you are right is very difficult is sometimes multinational companies rather than stronger than our country especially in the context of certain legal issues that need to be resolved in such disputes. And then it happens to us that our companies buy from their parent companies the production resources they need at much higher prices. So you just need oil, you pay that oil more than other companies pay and slowly draws you out, they pull you out. And you should prove it, but in the end it comes so well there's fluctuations oil prices can be a little lower, a little higher, and they'll always be right. But what happens to us is that our companies are always the ones whose price is the highest, at the highest limit or slightly crossing, so you won't take the legal pathways where you'd be able to prove it, and we don't have the strength to deal with it through the mechanisms that the ministry has or has a strong attitude to monitor such transactions more closely and to try to prevent them at all costs, because it would then create pressure on companies, yet it would be more important to pay attention, when it comes to paying attention, when someone constantly trampaging that these prices that are thus formed are as close as possible. And in this, I recently mentioned her, for example. Germany, in its industrial strategy, she said clearly we want big companies that will be powerful to resist competition from China, from America, but what will happen to us then? They draw and our resources, they connect within a German area, within a French or English area, and they will resist. The company as such for its owners, shareholders will make good profits, they will be satisfied, and from what little we have with such a tax policy we will try to take as much as we can and then the entrepreneurs who have a business home in the Republic of Croatia, who are not connected internationally, who are then going to withdraw the total amount of funds, become victims of such a system, because we all have to pay more to cover the deficits that could be compensated. And there is often a question of where there is a limit to such tax-specific obligations of a small entrepreneur who is created in the Republic of Croatia, who has employees who live in the Republic of Croatia, who has a locally defined market, a little greater or a little less and justice towards him in relation to the companies that come to us and it is not rare to hear that companies that in their home country, in another country, are respected companies, when they come to us then act in the worst sense that we can actually imagine, which is mere exploitation, in this way we are practically one mechanism, transfer and price become colonies. And I ask you where we are in that EU to protect us, in which way it will protect us, something we will pass on, some rules, but not even the EU with this kind of system that is at its level, it will not oppose such companies, because it is at the end of the EU company, it is not one microsoft that comes to Ireland, and then there has agreed something lower tax on profits, so they ride it, it is the companies from the automotive industry or any other, here are the oil industries such as MOL and those against them will never implement such a policy that will prevent exactly that kind of action. And then we have the inability to solve it, and on the other hand, the question is, are we able to charge all taxes? So, we lost this, one part of our tax liabilities doesn't charge our system, there's a variety of reasons, and now these days we've followed the situation around Badell, right? Badel has his own administrative building which he suddenly doesn't need anymore, because of course the administration probably doesn't, it's moved somewhere further away, someone else manages and in a public tender no one has reported to the Ministry of State Property the property that is good for USKOK, but right now Badel, they pass the competition offer 5.4 million kuna and then the ministry, Goran Maric chooses them as the best and USKOK enters there. The only good thing about it is that it's probably going to be left with all the documentation of Badell there, so USCOC won't have to pick her up somewhere but is there when it comes, they'll be able to examine her and determine what happened criminally in that privatisation that she did. But why do I mention this example? Because, as a state, we were the biggest non-payment believer, over 200 million kuna was required only for, with the basis of excise duties and other duties and there is also connected banks owned by the state and certain other public entities, over 200 million and we have made a decision we will sign 60%. Zdravko Maric even wrote off 60% to his friend Darka Knez, and with that the state took that 40%, and then when you write off, then you have to charge someone else. But why am I putting this one more time, why was that signature so problematic? Because no one wanted to look at the core of this company itself, which is its capacity is if in 2018, a year, a little more than a year after we spent pre-fashional, pre-fashion deals, the company says it paid off all its creditors, and then we wonder if we're all crazy or we're all being silly, so no one's warning that crime has actually taken place. So, all those years, the stalemate, the breach of legal personality, couldn't end, and then all of a sudden, when the deal came to an end as appropriate to the actors who were interested in taking over Badell, then we came to the conclusion that within a year all obligations were resolved and where the capitalisation amounted to an entire 30 million kuna. So, one small meteor in charge, they ate the great Badell with everything that was. Finally, when you look at your duty at the moment, it turns out that the more in charge of the company has taken over the less in charge. But of course, politics played here. And this is just one example that in such a matter and double taxation, tax disputes where we should have a firm policy, how we are going to run such a policy towards other countries, according to companies based in other EU Member States if we are not able to deal with a system that does not charge income from the state budget created from business companies. But every time we find someone who's suitable, like us, party or whatever we do him a favor. That service, ladies and gentlemen, costs money. And on the other hand, when you have a small entrepreneur who hasn't settled his obligation within the month, you know what's happening to him? After a brief procedure, it is completed, charged without a lot of pardons, and then we ask what is righteousness? Is it fair in the Republic of Croatia to be a small entrepreneur if you know that one month if you were in difficulty, the first one that will sit behind your neck is the Tax Administration, they will be the first because, of course, they have learned from you every month to get your money and I can't forgive you because I can't settle my obligations, but if you grow big enough to have owners or presidents of the administration, the directors of the power to socialize with the people of politics who decide on your problems, there everything is allowed, it's allowed to happen just like that, then it happens not only to Badel, but to Agrokori, it will happen to us in the future that we will have a problem with large systems and we are here talking about a law that we should solve such systems at one international level. Locally, colleagues and colleagues have not been able to do their homework locally and we should talk about the law here, some guidelines, EU directives that will help us, and it seems to me that we should first have guidelines for people who conduct such policies because if we are not people who have changed responsible places for making decisions, the laws themselves will become every single letter on paper and we will larmate here, we will call each other and in reality will not change anything, only those who consider that the most spectacular, media-specific, create a certain impression, but as they may only sometimes speak, while these noises are created, underneath it all, people who work on taking over such a company as Badel or any other form of solving actually illegal actions, they continue to do so, and only sometimes they may run into a certain rock and then bypass them a little bit, but then they bypass our system, they avoid the need of any kind of response, because there is no one that is the most important reason for us to do so. So we have brought ourselves into this situation that we will not help the Croatian economy in this way but will constantly have a financial injection that comes through the EU funds, which maintains this balance, so some added value is created but if we leave out this financial aid and see what the quality of our system itself is, what will be one day when these funds do not come in that volume, then it will prove to ourselves that we are not enough to maintain ourselves but will become in trouble again. Does anyone here believe that help will come from the EU all the time? That they can't wait to pay us all the time? No, they give us a chance, we get a chance to consolidate our situation, to solve a certain infrastructure, to be ready to deal with games where you charge taxes from those who are a successful full state budget to meet the conditions for companies operating on the market to be even more successful, to have a tax system that will allow companies to grow, to become an international entity, we have some successes but unfortunately not too much and in all of it to give rise to one satisfaction. In this way, I'm going to say, unsatisfactory with that we're going to talk here about a law that should be praised and on the other hand we see that a whole series of problems remain and if we're so successful at everything and means if we have surpluses in the budget, then why do we charge so much of our citizens and entrepreneurs? I'd say this year we'll give a discount, so we have a surplus 4%, we'll give everyone a 4% discount, you won't 4%, your obligation has to pay, then the state gives you, anyway, there's nothing to spend on. Or we should say give more of these health problems to solve, and then you'll see what the deficit is. So let's not just live on political laurels, and unfortunately, here comes the election, it's going to be presidential, and then it's going to be parliamentary, after that local, I'm afraid in 2022. What she will bring when all that is hidden, should come out, and especially if we should through certain disputes compensate for what we have lost, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149297	The second club of representatives is SDP, a respected colleague of Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149298	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. So we are facing the Final Proposal of the EU Tax Dispute Mechanism Act in the EU, so far this proposal for a law in the Croatian legal system implements the EU Council Directive on the tax dispute settlement mechanism in the EU, means the 2017 Directive, of 10 October, so far disputes relating to international double taxation of taxpayers by direct taxes have been resolved between EU states on the basis of the provisions laid down in international agreements on the avoidance of double taxation or the basis of an EU arbitration convention in disputes relating to transfer prices, it has been demonstrated that dispute resolution is often ineffective or does not cover all issues arising from double taxation and, in addition, the application of a mechanism of tax dispute resolution in the EU. The dispute settlement procedure under this law takes place in two, in the first competent authorities of the state trying to resolve the dispute by common agreement, if they fail in the prescribed time, in the second stage, as already mentioned here, the taxpayer may require the establishment of so-called. the arbitration authority which will resolve the dispute within 6 months. The aim of this law is certainly to improve dispute resolution mechanisms between the Republic of Croatia and other EU member states resulting from interpretation and application of the double taxation avoidance treaty to ensure effective resolution of these disputes. For example, so far it has been said, somewhere around 16 of which 1 has been resolved after 2 years, and it is expected that the application of this law will speed it up. So this law is nothing more than operationalisation, technical operationalization of the laws that we have had, the Law on the avoidance of double taxation, which were general documents between individual Member States and given the single European market, it seems to me that this directive now lowers to a lower level that tax disputes between certain companies with different territories are now speeding up, even though we have agreed here together that it is a two-year period when you say in Croatia that you have been dealing with a tax dispute for two years, etc., that you are going with the law, and that you would all jump out and say that two years this has to be resolved immediately, but here the directive says that this is some reasonable period and the one where they consider it between Member States, and we are talking about the single market, because now there is no longer a Croatian market.../incomprehensible... than when business and when all these barriers and customs and various other products that are now established in this particular way that these products are located in a single market, and that this way, in other way, in a fair manner, in which is the regulated manner, in which this particular, in which is the regulated manner, in order to be used. It is therefore expected that the implementation of the directive will increase the fairness of tax systems and create equal conditions for the effective elimination of double taxation within the EU and thus affect all taxpayers who make business profit and create equal conditions for competition. In any event, the proposal for this final draft law should give rise to lower costs of fulfilling the tax obligation and greater efficiency. As my colleague Panenic said earlier here, I think you said the most disputes are related to transfer prices, it is an extremely complicated area, a very wide area. He listed only one company related to transfer prices, related to oil derivatives, but this can also be talked about companies dealing with trade. We are aware of this many foreign trade chains that operate on the territory of the Republic of Croatia often have much lower products than they have in their home countries. In their home countries, they earn profits, pay profit tax neatly in their business, but in the Republic of Croatia this uses that option, so 3, 4, 5 years as in losses, etc., then put in an unequal position of the Croatian trade chain, Croatian entrepreneurs who are struggling with competition and such lower, lower prices, this one cannot sell products on their market and pay profit tax, etc., etc. So I think it's a very wide and complicated area and now it's not just an area where the trade chains or some other multinational companies that came into the territory of the Republic of Croatia are probably in a number of other countries within the EU, and I think it's a good thing that these disputes are trying to solve faster, simpler, more effectively. Croatian entrepreneurs will also be protected in this way. We are just entering and entering the EU market, and certainly this is how we settle some disputes, if we find some disputes I think this directive gives them wind in the back, that it gives them a certain and some kind of tool to solve some kind of dispute, that there are also a way that cooperation between the Tax Administration of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Finance and other tax administrations on other bodies will actually enable this stronger, closer, better co-operation where it will be formed through different committees of people from the profession and that in this way it will directly assist Croatian entrepreneurs and I think that this is another positive, positive rule of business for Croatia to enter the European market, to join that market. As we see today many positive effects from low interest rates, the single market when we use lower interest rates, not only for bonds, but for housing loans, to resolve certain consumer disputes. So in European courts, Croatian citizens can now access this single market much better and better, and I think that this directive will also be for these entrepreneurs, and we will see how it continues to be operational maybe through some regulations, etc. that this will also contribute and I think that this law should be supported and that I think it only goes in favour of Croatian entrepreneurs who are opening up to the European market. We'll see later what you've said to these 15 cases yourself that haven't been solved, whether this law will help them, whether it will help them, we'll see some feedback. This one I ask you to keep clear of when you might be in some kind of change to say if it helped, what else can we help with amending these certain laws and if only they could help, speed up the resolution of these disputes in these 15 I think it's worth passing the law. I thank you once again, the SDP Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149299	We're going to the third club, the HDZ esteemed Ivan Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues there is a law ahead of us that I must honestly say that rarely in the assembly comes such a law that is technically well-worked. So this law, which has been set up under the EU directive, has practically dealt with both the establishment and handling of a very demanding topic in detail. Therefore, Croatia was happy with the draft that the number of countries with which the double taxation avoidance contract was signed increased. And in such a way, we have simply made it easier for our entrepreneurs and also for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, unfortunately, have around the world. Solve some of their problems, however, since the world exists, there has been one of these wars between those who earn something and the states. So they keep thinking they should pay less taxes, and the state wants to charge that tax. Both colleagues and colleagues should not forget certain provisions of the Value Added Tax Act and the Customs Act where tax obligations are defined. And that is perhaps when we talk primarily about cross-border cooperation and cross-border business perhaps most problematicly and when you take in Croatia that practically large trade chains are more than two three in the hands of foreigners, there are various services that they want to treat as normal, display as a cost, transfer it to the home country where they are located or for this or that reason more favourable to their tax treatment. During the debate on behalf of the club in the first reading, I mentioned one thing, I simply want to mention it today. Why? Because Croatia is practically next to Italy, which has the highest percentage of the population outside the Republic of Croatia. Remember what happened, I think it was in 2012 when foreign pensions became taxful how unknown it was for Croatian citizens who are receiving pensions. Especially for those who are receiving a Swiss pension. And probably if there was such a law then, a lot of them might have initiated certain actions. Because some of them may have been unwarranted. Although here it should be said that the tax administration of the Republic of Croatia acted both educationally and helped these people because people simply found themselves in a situation where they didn't know what to do. So one plastic example of what happens when a law changes and you don't have a law that will help you. So this law helps when the tax authority of one EU Member State makes a certain solution that the taxpayer considers to be wrong, that it itself is damaged, because of its status, because of whether it is resident, it is not, a non-resident. And now a mixed body is being established between the two EU members that should solve these problems. So look at both tax regulations, look at a double taxation agreement and bring what should be the most favourable and fairest for both entrepreneurs and citizens. So in this law you have even specifically indicated that natural persons and small entrepreneurs have special status for the simple reasons of their education of people who process their business papers are not like those of large companies. They're here to say so in a subordinate position. And that is why it is good that the legislator in the bill especially highlighted them and particularly highlighted them. So, I said that a little law that comes in front of this high house is so let's say bureaucratic... That's how much detail is prescribed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And probably because it came about as a consequence of what has plagued the old EU member states, and we only got on that train at the same time, and we could use it. I think that should simply be said because the Croatian tax administration also had a number of situations where it cut the tax on certain services for which we based tax legislation in the Republic of Croatia felt that those taxes had to be paid in the Republic of Croatia. Also probably in some Croatian companies that work outside especially those companies that have to say... workers, therefore, have certain permits in certain countries, and also probably certain tax solutions did not contribute, but unfortunately they could not solve them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we can list a number of things now, I'm saying I don't want to repeat what I said on behalf of the club in the first reading, but some things should be noted. In order to make Croatian citizens aware of this at all, I told that provision when it was adopted that foreign pensions were taxed in the Croatian tax system, they were untaxable until then. And many people for 2, 3 years have been in a lot of trouble whether or not they need to file a tax return. Because the pension tax rate, as I know in Germany or Austria, is much more than that of Croatia. And he is not subject to taxes there, and for example in Croatia he is subject to taxes. However, the tax administration solved this but was one problem with Switzerland, which unfortunately for 3.4 years led the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to a rather unfortunate situation. Because big companies, big multinationals who have these transfer prices, and they have enough legal services and experts to help them. This law will help small entrepreneurs and individuals far more than large companies. And perhaps, they will be the greatest winners when the Croatian Parliament adopts this law. And to finish my congratulations to the Ministry of Finance on one truly exceptional, quality law. And whoever reads it, I last said in a joke that someone could take it and read it as a light evening reading, whoever reads it will become clear to him who, what and how should be done and what are the deadlines. They may seem long to us starting from 60 days to two years but it is simply one practice that is out there and based on this practice we will have to get used to how our organs function and others. So the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149301	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, Mr Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149302	Dear Vice President, esteemed fellow Secretary of State. In every country, taxes exist so that there must be in Croatia, however, tax burdens in Croatia are still, I will dare say a little higher, more drastic than in most countries of the world. Here we are talking about dispute resolution and a colleague has made it nice before pointing out that this law puts in a special category individuals, small entrepreneurs, and that's okay. However, I will highlight here a few of the problems that are very obvious, which are very interesting for Croatian citizens. The first problem is the problem, and counterpart Panenic pointed it out in his own way, I will go to my large multinational companies that have no headquarters in Croatia. I will highlight the example here for the beginning of two, let them be companies dealing with bringing tourists, tourist agency booking.com AIRBNB who have headquarters one in the Netherlands if I am not mistaken, and the other has opened a branch in Great Britain. So these two companies, they're not the only ones, they're not paying taxes in the Republic of Croatia, they're not paying, they're not paying, they're not paying, they're not paying, they're not paying, they're not paying, they're not paying, they're not paying, I know, they're not paying tax, and they're earning in the Republic of Croatia a few billion, billions of kuna, and now I don't get it. Now here you are from the Ministry of Finance, you explain to me how it's possible for someone in the Republic of Croatia to work and not pay taxes. Okay, I know what your answer will be, we're in the EU and we can do the same thing, actually we can open up a company here in the Republic of Croatia and do the same propriety and do the same in the Netherlands, but that's not what we do. It's like bringing a baby into the ring with a professional boxer and telling you to fight. So, no way. So we don't do that. And their tax obligations they even transferred to Croatian citizens, and then Croatian citizens, renters who have one apartment, two, three, they pay their tax liability in the Republic of Croatia to a commission they earn in the Republic of Croatia. Now, that really doesn't make any sense to me. So they pay taxes in the Netherlands or Great Britain or America, where they are already registered, in the Republic of Croatia do not pay, and Croatian citizens pay taxes for them. I'm going to tell you another problem that is very, very big, and the Ministry of Finance, not only these three years of yours, but it's always not taking care of it, although it's a new problem, and it's about Google advertising, it's about social networks and advertising social networks where it means neither lip nor lip goes to the state, and billions are coming out of the state. Now, the Ministry of Finance is always there when it takes that little private, small businessman or a natural person to get shot in the pocket. Well, that guy over there is selling, I don't know, fries, he didn't give up the bill, and he's going to be punished, rightly, to issue a bill. But it's a different archimetre, it's a different measure when someone in the Republic makes billions of kunas, doesn't pay taxes because you just didn't give me a bill, you didn't give me a model of how to get these companies here, specifically Google, to pay us what they make in the Republic. Here's the slow, here's the slow, I really encourage you, you're HDZ, okay all great, so I'm the opposition, you're the government, but this is the interest of the Croatian state. Imagine if we introduced this order and these tourist providers and if all these companies that work in, means on social networks, they work in that virtual space, and they make billions in the Republic of Croatia, Croatians pay billions, pay taxes, how much we could cut taxes in the Republic of Croatia, very much. So, I'm asking you this way, please, and your Secretary-in-chief, so really run for it. So, it's not normal, it's really not normal for some companies to make billions and billions of kunas, not pay no taxes, and on the other hand, a small Croatian entrepreneur or a natural person will pay every single bit of tax and be punished the moment he commits a crime. I will repeat, of course, that I am in favour of paying taxes, but yet I think that the much greater amount of several billion kunas than just a few kunas, as much as it means, how often Croatian entrepreneurs are sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149303	Now it's in front of Mrs. HNS's Club of Representatives. Goddess Macar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149304	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have a good law ahead of us, the law we discussed in the first reading where there were some remarks, but mostly we all agreed it was a really good law, regardless of what we often know to turn a little bit and wide, which I personally think is good. We in the Republic of Croatia now have bilateral agreements to avoid double taxation with individual EU members, but also with members of third countries. With these EU members, it is normal for us to have a single European market and to respect all the laws, all the rules, to apply in the Republic of Croatia as well as in other members, and so is the Law on the avoidance of double taxation. It is precisely the aim of this law to improve the mechanisms for resolving double taxation disputes in the EU in order to ensure an effective and effective settlement of disputes in double taxation cases with full elimination of double taxation. The emphasis is on improving existing mechanisms with a view to creating a reasonable timeframe for the EU's uniform and wider application area, and on increasing the effectiveness and security of the implementation of the final decision. Whether the deadline provided for by this law and which has been harmonised and transposed from the directive may have been too long for us, it seems to us, but given the resolution, the speed of resolution and how many disputes have been settled so far, we believe that this is objective and that it is precisely possible to implement it within this reasonable time limit that is foreseen. In order to effectively improve dispute resolution between EU Member States, a uniform and harmonised implementation of dispute settlement rules is needed. Disputes should also be settled consistently in the current context of the global fight against evasion and tax avoidance. This solution will create additional value for the EU's tax acquis. In particular, we have all pointed out here, and this law highlights the transfer prices most often present for paying off hidden profits. This is about multinational companies operating in several countries, having their own companies, and often there are not market prices or prices that are real, but are often decreasing. For example, in trade chains that have already been spoken, and goods are sold at lower prices in a Member State while profits are realised in a home country, and only the cost is created here so that no income tax is paid in another country but everything is transferred to the country of origin. So a series of laws already passed that regulate precisely those transfer prices, but it's good that they're also touched by this law. The fact is that double taxation of the profits of entrepreneurs in different Member States has a negative impact on cross-border investment, creating an unstable environment for taxpayers, but there is also a problem of control by the Tax Administration itself. With this EU Council Directive on a mechanism for resolving tax disputes in the EU that is really well worked out and technically transposed into this law, it will certainly make many things far clearer, far easier and far more secure for our entrepreneurs, more so because here are the advisers for these small entrepreneurs who do not have the capacity to handle themselves and seek to resolve these disputes or to seek a solution if they believe that they are damaged in an action. What is more, we consider extremely good, are the costs resulting from the application of this Directive which should be limited and should not be significantly different from the costs currently incurred in relation to the mechanisms for resolving double taxation disputes because the initiative is based on the existing acquis and an optimised combination with the overall framework of EU transfer prices. The intensity of this law is really good, the technical work itself is good and the law has been built professionally and correctly and the HNS club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149305	Thank you, Mrs. Macar. And now it's in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149306	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary with his associate. Here are colleagues who have said before, we have in the Republic of Croatia a system of calling compared to the EU i.e. The transfer prices that essentially destroyed Croatian production are crucial, especially in terms of agriculture. Currently in Croatia 2018 compared to 2017 we have about 11% less production than that OPG only in 2018 produced about 16% less... And that's precisely because of what was happening to these transfer prices is simply multinational companies being targeted and interested. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we joined the EU we didn't protect ourselves on our market, it was the fight against mice and they just... This is why today's consequences are basically why our economy has been destroyed, our agriculture is simply at transfer prices, very low prices of multinational companies have been delivering goods to their companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was an example if some 30 euros were delivered to the euro and would pay a minimum or no tax and now they destroyed everything, when agriculture was destroyed, when they threw competition, because it was obviously not a problem for multinational companies from other EU countries through their trade chains, when they destroyed agriculture, when they destroyed everything very simply and their very logical market was open, we common markets they found a simple model of our political elites they played in that circuit and simply allowed us to bring our agriculture across this transfer price today to never lower branches, our economy, production, the economy on never lower branches. And they snuck out a lot of money from a multinational company in the EU exclusively targeted through transfer prices by destroying our farmers above all. Because it's amazing if a kilo of cheese is 10 euros that was in Croatia, multinational companies are that. companies sold to their companies for 1 euro and less, even that was. Is the fact that it was not only an objective of not paying taxes as they paid for the product in their countries at a real price but simply destroying competition. And now that they've destroyed the competition, we can pass this law. So this law was to be passed, this EU directive when the economy is Croatian and when agriculture was still sustainable. Now that they've smudged huge money, over transfer prices, now we're passing this bill. I've been interested here, I've been very interested since we've been on that EU market, since we joined the EU how many multinational companies have pushed at these low prices of their products to destroy our farmers as competitors, our producers, our industry, how much money they've essentially drawn from the Republic of Croatia, I think it's hundreds of billions of kuna, it's a fact and I don't even know what the governments and ministers so far have been doing, so far, that it's been going under the grain. So, literally, Croatian agriculture and the Croatian economy were robbed in this way, by means of transfer prices. I said one about the example and that is why today we still have a very significant.../incomprehensible/... mentioning the farm resort, here I just said in 2018. This government boasts with numerous projects, with numerous successes, and only the production of milk in the Republic of Croatia in 2018 compared to 2017 is 10.9% less than in the previous year in 2018. And that's exactly the result of this, favouring foreign multinational companies that have power, having money that they can also export cheaply, of course, pay less taxes. We're not exporting because we're a single market, and our farmer wasn't competitive. So our entrepreneur was not competitive and was simply brought to the stage of trade. A worse store than what's going on in the assembly. It's like this, for example, we're going to compare. Until now, Milan Bandic bought the chips until one moment before it came too strong, and now those chips, and Andrej Plenkovic, to cover it up, he was playing it to Andrej Plenkovic, now that Milan Bandic has become too strong, now he will pick up those chips to weaken him. It's the same look. So to keep Andrej Plenkovic clean, he left it to Milan Bandic and when he brought it together, and now that he comes to the polls on Friday, we don't have a majority, there's a quorum, but the resistance is waiting, there's no voting, because there's no such thing as Milan Bandic's token. I don't even want to insult people.../incomprehensible... chips. Now that it's happened, he's pulled one out, he's already started pulling Plenkovic out to free Milan Bandic, today is the club president's check I followed to get out of that club to show Milan Bandic that he's not strong enough that he put the club together for him. That's a lot like you here. We're now passing a law we've been trying to pass, so as soon as we're here to protect our producers that there's no transfer prices, there's no low prices. The targeted multinational companies that pushed low on their products, the low prices, did not pay the taxes of the Republic of Croatia as they pay in their country, and today, what we have come to today, today when we pass this law, when we bring it as an EU Directive, but today it is too late because there are no farmers, empty fields, stables empty and very little of what is left not competitive, because if there is something real price in RH 10 kuna, and someone imports it for the kuna, it is at that point dear citizens are good for you, it is good that you can buy something on the market for the kuna at that time, but in order for them to reach the monopoly they dropped the prices and when they have destroyed everything, and now they can return it to not 10 kuna, because domestic production is not protected and destroyed. I ask you, Madam Secretary, if this is too late, do you have any projections of how much money has been milked by multinational foreign companies, because this law is now passed, we are now passing it and of course this essence of tax dispute resolution mechanisms must exist and I agree with that. But the question is, how many years are we late and how many billion have been milked out of the Republic of Croatia, how many agricultural holdings have destroyed villages, how many people from the village have been evicted and the village has been destroyed, and without the village, of course, we don't have this without rural products, we simply don't have a strong country, we don't have food production, and we see that food and not only, they mention dairy production and pork and all the other food products have been hugely growing since we entered the EU, in growth means imports. And now this law that should have been passed now as a directive, we are now. But we don't have a projection, what happened at this stage while we were, in this unfair commercial practice of some kind, most unfair to the pain, that's what I told it looks like these chips, that's similar, here's the word for a picturesque comparison. And what will be the effects now, do we even have the strength, do we have the competition, is now multinational companies with their products and trade chains become monopolies, have no competition in domestic production. Here, I've given a few questions that are significant, because the terrible effects have so far been on these transfer prices, very low prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149307	Thank you, Mr. Bull. It is now up to Mrs Grozdana Peric, who will have an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149308	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, here are colleagues who have said a lot so far, but what should once again be noted is that we are EU members and that as such it is certain that our citizens are entrepreneurs and natural persons and how they can do business within the EU and also those from other EU countries can do business with us and that it is very important that this law regulates ways of resolving disputes either one or the other. What should certainly be said is that we should not be afraid of being citizens, as entrepreneurs, because without this regulation, we are only then cut off. It should be said that in 2018, there were more than 130 000 taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia who, compared to previous periods, were slightly less, but compared to how many of these bonds and without banks and without insurance companies made significant progress in that year where more than 8.6% increased their total revenues, they increased the number of employees by 5%. 5.2, salaries over 4% and investments also almost 4%. What worries us all is that these investments compared to 2008 are nominally much lower, and now in 2018 there were some 24 billion kunas invested and in 2008, it was over 84 billion. Why am I saying that? I'm saying just because entrepreneurs have to be stimulated, they have to be protected in a way that really is their investment and everything they do, that they have a safe environment where their interests will be heavily protected or that they can operate in a regulated state that will protect them as such. Here when we talk about double, the problem of double taxation, then we have to say what it comes from. It happens in those cases where you live in one country and you work in another, so it's daily migration, you may have made a pension in a country of the EU and you live in someone else, for example. in Croatia, then for this reason you must and you are obliged to report the revenues you make from that country where you worked. It may also happen that you are an example of sailors working for customer companies, and then you also have to pay a certain tax in the home country where they have a place of residence and you might also be looking for a job in a foreign country while in the country of origin you receive some kind of unemployment fee. So these are all reasons why the problems of double taxation occur, and it is therefore important that the laws of this kind are governed by all these relationships so that citizens have as little problems as possible and that they know that they have to behave in their country of residence. The problem is often mentioned here and, in fact, the fear of all multinational companies, markets, etc., normally that every country protects its own market but we also need to know that we are part of this entire large family and that some things cannot be defended by decree. When spoken like this if our farmer had been destroyed, I would only like to say to the public that in 2018 6.6 billion kunas were paid subsidies, out of which 3.8 billion kunas were paid to farmers through direct payments or different aids. In these 3.8 billion kunas, there is also a large part of the European funds, so over 2 billion for direct payments and something else, about half a billion, so a large part of the funding that helps domestic farmers to start and make their agriculture much better. This trend continued in 2019, so the subsidies are well achieved to make the domestic farmer as high as possible, as competitive as possible, and thus actually produce our own food. So aside from the fact that we all want our food to be sold through tourism, but we all have to insist that in this large proportion of tourism, this import component is then as small as possible and that we encourage the domestic producer in this way. But in that chain, we really need to take care of a lot of segments, and this law that's very high-qualityly prepared here, in fact, in that part, it's very much protecting the domestic producer, and that's why we need to support these laws. Here, once again, I commend the law and I think this way we can better protect all our entrepreneurs and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149309	Thank you. The first replica was sought by Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149310	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Peric. Yes, this law is a good tool to help our economy through the prevention of double taxation, to help our craftsmen and entrepreneurs, as well as to encourage the investment cycle and you mentioned the investment and the need to have greater investment growth in Croatia. The fact is that we will find it difficult to attract foreign investors to the Republic of Croatia because it is one of the criticisms that we change laws too often, that they are not implemented and that they are too large to be given to production in the Republic of Croatia. According to us from the HSS, according to you and the question, how do we encourage domestic investment, how do we encourage domestic investors, especially in those areas where people move from? Are you thinking about it? It is our proposal that the part of the profits that is reinvested be tax relief and thus encourage domestic investment and job creation. You've abolished this last tax reform, you've cut it down. profit tax, but it's not [[Intruder: Time.]] Incentived investments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149311	Thank you very much. Here you go, ma'am. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149312	Yes, the latest tax reforms are making this reinvested profit actually a relief that has been abolished, but what was wanted previously from these 3 cycles is that local communities and regional communities themselves become as powerful as possible to plan through their own projects to develop their own environments and that in the way that is possible, these local communities, then create preconditions to develop certain activities. As encouraged or not, if we're going to look at it, here in 2018 I mentioned where income from profit tax has increased, so something is still happening, but for that is still a necessary process. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149313	Thank you very much. Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149314	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague Peric. In your presentation you presented some data and you were actually talking about 130 thousand persons taxpayers on profit, mostly natural persons that the fact is total, I apologize. But the fact is next. So, so far, we have solved the problem of double taxation with certain contracts, i.e. the EU arbitration convention, to say, so far on double taxation disputes, so this law now because of the public, because of those people who have their pensions, should say that the aim of this law is to improve actually the mechanism itself in resolving disputes between the Republic of Croatia and other EU members, and in fact it is a taste of everything and we should actually know that citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149315	Answer, ma'am. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149316	That's right. This is an improvement of the mechanism and the possibility that every single individual, every entrepreneur can ask for certain solutions and protection from our institutions. You have examples, here in the IT industry the freshest where the problem of double taxation with the United States is said where the contract is not yet signed and where some entrepreneurs who deal with it, the gaming industry, means by making games of various kinds, they actually have a problem because they hire a lot of people, and they are not protected, or they pay taxes in both the US and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149317	We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about this law and the mechanism that solves these potential tax disputes between Croatia and other EU countries, or possible tax misunderstandings created or the work of individuals or companies, it is impossible not to mention, and this has already been brought up in the debate and has already been brought up, which is our current tax environment or whether Croatia and Croatia will react to a very large one, I would say fluctuations both by companies and individuals, meaning the migrations of our people leaving Croatia, and not because they feel justice here and are not leaving because they feel that the work they are doing in the Republic will be paid the same way in another EU country or they will pay less taxes than they pay in another EU country, but rather the opposite. Unfortunately, at this point Croatia is synonym for the large tax burden and something even Mrs. Peric, which is also shown by investments in the Republic of Croatia. So where there's a huge tax burden where, when we have a front door, there's probably another economic crisis that's not being invested. It's invested where people are stimulated to invest and there's less tax burden. Croatia is unfortunately doing the opposite of that and now here, today I've been saying something about it in the morning, it's amazing that it's threatening to tradesmen who pay a flat-rate monthly tax, so it's people up to 300,000 kunas of income that they can carry out through certain activities and we're reading amazing announcements that they need to be taxed more, that it's simply a model that some people like to use. Watch out, that's how more people qualify to use benefits. Well, of course people want to work and take advantage of the opportunity to earn their job paid as much as possible and to pay their taxes as they have to. No one wants to pay more taxes than they have to. And when they choose that model, 300 thousand kunas, they are not what big money they are, usually, people who employ themselves and thus manage to survive, or solve their wages, their money, their family, their own standard, or the possibility of living in the Republic of Croatia and who are already close to 40,000 and send messages to those people. You need to be taxed more entirely wrong and we can see that certain government media and abdominals are doing this through certain articles and certain missions, and where more taxation is being announced on a small door by the craftsman. On that side, we have to be aware that it won't get us anywhere. It will lead us to the fact that that part of the people, and this is why we are doing it, and we are saying it, is done quite often here to people who are dealing with IT industry, programmers who thus acquire certain funds and who are successful in their work and who will find work tomorrow in a company in Ireland, England, but now it doesn't matter because they are coming out of the EU but again in England because they are there, which is there, which is there, I would say the headquarters of a lot of such companies or America or Germany. So we're sending a message to these people that there are thousands that can't work that way, let them go somewhere else. Others will take very open arms and broadly accept them and take what unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Croatia rejects. And once again, I want to send that message, don't change the flat rate tax for craftsmen up to 300 thousand kunas that we have introduced and increased significantly in the term of office by 2015 to 230 thousand kuna for entering the VAT system that has now been upgraded by 70 thousand to 30 thousand kuna. That's a good model. That's how it's supposed to stay. And maybe I'm a little subjective because I'm de facto the way to start using it more massively, but now I'm proud and happy that almost 40,000 people use that model, means it's good. Many of them say that one of the more positive examples of how a small entrepreneur in Croatia can do some work without the state riding him from all sides, not asking for paperwork enormously, not asking him to have his accounting, etc. Don't make those people out of the Republic of Croatia. And I am convinced that in the end reason must prevail. That the urge for higher taxes will not prevail with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is fortunate that the election year is next, so I am convinced that pragmatic reasons will also force HDZ not to react in this regard. And I hope that this media hack on craftsmen, who unfortunately are not, did not stand up to her from the position of a crafts chamber that takes these people 76 kunas a month, but I don't hear it very loudly to advocate that craftsmen, cobwebs don't increase the tax burdens that the government obviously tends to make. So on the other hand, some people in the craft chamber who would be involved in politics and were HDZ mayoral candidates in Krapina-Zagorje County would be better off focusing on the subject and doing so and insisting on it, doing pressure on HDZ not to touch entrepreneurs, or artisans, instead of dealing with their political ambitions, and that people are even asking why they pay 76 kuna every month and they use very small or almost none of it. So when we look at one more thing, it's amazing to me that we're failing, here's the President of the United States of America, there's a fight on tatami with, boxing with Stipe Miocic, a little bit of singing we see in New York right now, I think from that time probably great benefits will have RH, that's what I'm saying under quotes that we're going to benefit because we're almost no use. Instead of agreeing to what is most important in the United States for our entrepreneurs to finally sign a double taxation agreement with the United States where it would allow hundreds of our entrepreneurs especially from the IT industry who are already working on that market not to have a company in America, that they do not have to have a company in some countries that have already signed, say, Hungary or Ireland with the United States, but rather to operate and work from Croatia. These are concrete things in which we as citizens of the Republic of Croatia would feel and it would be good if the president came with such results from the United States. Whether she lit an aperkat Stipi Miocic or a crochet, I don't think Croatian citizens have much of an exaggeration and that a bit of redness sometimes when they look at such scenes on daily reports, means a diary or so, because it simply doesn't seem to me to be the level at which the president of the Republic should be coming down at all. So it is an estradisation of the function and we want Croatia to be represented in another way and that the one elected as president has one guard, has one character and ability to fight for the citizens of Croatia with his views rather than estradic, I would say travel around the world which, of course, pay Croatian taxpayers. So on this side, such disputes will be settled, unfortunately Croatian citizens or our companies will always be there in the minority since our economy and our government does not transport them in such a way as it does, for example, German, Austrian or some other European government and we do not look at the interest of our entrepreneurs, I said this last diameter with artisans who pay a flat tax is a plastic example of how the Croatian government is trampling and exhausting our financial entrepreneurs who are trying to create some values and leave that value in the Republic, hire our people to make quality living and to have certain benefits and decent lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149319	Mr. Vlaovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149320	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you have well discussed and through this law you mentioned the importance of craftsmanship and craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia, especially for us in HSS it is unacceptable that now through the media, craftsmen of the artisans are called, the question to whom these craftsmen are disturbed, because here, over a long period of years, through a quality debate and in cooperation with all stakeholders in this area are chosen to make it possible for our craftsmen who occasionally carry out certain jobs, that they can carry out this craft through a flat and pay their taxes through a flat-rate year. Who are they bothering? There are currently around 45,000 in Croatia. Is that some kind of an obstacle to the RH or...? I don't know why it's written about it now, or being forced to go to the gray economy, turn off the turns and work on black or worse, to go outside the Republic of Croatia, especially from the IT sector, so I guess we should attract them and develop that sector in the Republic, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149321	Time, answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149322	Thank you very much. Well, I guess it bothers those whose concept of state, or employment in state services, is the ideal thing to do to frame one of your cousins, so maybe some godfather company will build something, etc., the team is intruding. Who minds the market, who minds that people can make some money from their work and the smallest ones, I said, it is up to 300,000 kuna a year but I am glad that we can even talk about this topic in the Croatian Parliament and that in some way those 40,000 and some people who do so have found their own space in the Republic of Croatia and that we need to fight not to drive them away from Croatia and that in some way I am proud here, we talk many times about what the government left behind, here I have left this model of the artisan craftsman of the cobwebs. Maybe it bothers HDZ, maybe it bothers it, maybe because the government of Zoran Milanovic left it, it bothers HDZ, so they want to shut it down, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149323	Time, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a wig, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149324	My dear colleague, I don't think anyone's bothered by the people who are cobwebs, but they are, as my colleague said, 45 grand. When we compare how relative it is to the total number of employees, it is about 2.9% compared to the Czech Republic or Poland where there are more than 7% of them, so nobody should be bothered, just as other EU countries do, on their pages they write indicators that classify certain jobs, and I think that we will do that in such a way to sort out the work, so whether it will be independent or non-permanent work, but no one mind, however, I think that this way with the bean extends the tax phase and thus enables a bigger Taxes. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149325	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149326	Thank you very much. But right from that point on the key line, it means that it's defined, that it's defined as how income is taxed, so what you just said now, de facto means that HDZ advocates paying more taxes. So let you call it something rather than whether it's possible for someone who does any work for up to 300,000 except a few who are specified that you can't, but usually all jobs, can it be in the pausal tax system, that's the question. What you said just confirms what I was saying earlier, that HDZ is pushing for greater taxation of the income of those cobwebsmen now. That's the difference between you and me. I want people to work as easily as possible, to have as little cost as possible and you want to tax them at least, even more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149327	Now it's Mr. Pernar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149328	Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The tax policy is constantly being debated, we change various tax laws almost every year and the same thing happens in other EU countries, however, the problems that all Member States have remain the same. The basic purpose of tax collection is to finance budgetary expenditures. However, if it is evident that from year to year the state has a deficit that cannot be covered by tax revenues and that the debts of these countries are growing year by year, it should be obvious that all the financial problems in the EU cannot be solved by changes in tax policy but are already caused at one completely different level and that is the monetary level I often talk about. It is clear to all of you that the CNB does not play the role of a real central bank or that it is only a currency exchanger and that the European Central Bank, which deals with money emissions, does so exclusively through credit. What does that mean in translation? This means that if, for example, the Member State of Portugal which is a member of the Euro Zone and also co-owner of the European Central Bank, needs euro or money, it cannot be directly taken from the European Central Bank, it cannot even borrow that money from the European Central Bank, but a private bank borrows 0.1% of the interest from the European Central Bank, and then lends the same money to Portugal by, say, 4%, 5% or multiple interest. And thus, in this monetary system, private bank interest rates all EU countries with money essentially from the European Central Bank. Until this problem is resolved, until EU Member States are able to directly finance from the ECB, i.e. non-credit financing from the ECB, we will have fast-growing debts, we will have, we will have austerity measures, privatisation of public goods, we will have the introduction of new taxes and the increase of existing ones, and that is the trend. Simply pressure or pressure on society is growing from year to year and you will say, so as we in Croatia, we have a debt because we do not work or produce, but here, look at the debt in Japan. 200% of GDP, and the Japanese work and work and do their best. Look at the American debt, how big it is, so it's trillions of dollars. Who can bring that back? No one. It is clear to you that the debts are growing year by year and that these creditors will sooner or later ask for a noose around the doors and states and peoples and citizens. I have a thought to mention, it's also important. The countries of the world that have accepted this debt system, i.e. debt doctrine, claim that money must be debted in enormous debt, which is growing year by year, and are not in debt to each other. Notice the thought. It's not that Germany owes America, or I don't know, China to Japan, etc. No, I don't. Already all countries in the world owe private banks, private banks are those who actually usurped the process of making money, or privatized it for themselves. No credit, no money, and when you take the loan, you have to give the principal plus the interest, and the bank only created the principal. And for that reason, I find this debate in the House pointless, and why? Because the problems we had yesterday, we'll have them tomorrow. This law will not change anything in practice. All other amendments to tax laws are dealt with exclusively by spilling the hollow into blanks. So it's taken from one item to put on another. This is the whole story, only the tax press is being transferred, but the overall impact of these measures is always the same, and that is that the state has an increasing debt, that the deficit is increasing, etc. Credit crisis. Number of blocked citizens. How will these measures help? Not at all. The legislator or we don't do that at all. 2/3 of all the laws that are passed in the Assembly are not passed by the will of us MPs, but by the directives that the EU imposes on us. We're just voting them here by quick procedure. And if, by any chance, they would not want to vote as if the INA Act had to be liberalised or allowed private capital to take control of the company even easier, when the state did not want to change that law, then it was just the pressure from the EU, they said, ah, it must. And that's the whole point of European policy with us. We obediently do what they tell us, we do not question the system they have. On the contrary, he assures us that if there is, a type of property tax in other countries, that we should introduce him too. If other countries have the euro, we should also introduce the euro. And if we will benefit from the introduction of the euro, we will not. But, I'm saying, no matter how you change your tax policy, that monetary problem won't go away. Larry Hannigan, the Australian in 1971, in his book I want the country + 5% explained this problem. He explained that the additional 5% does not exist. And you can understand that very simply if you were to sum up the total amount of money that exists in the world on the one hand and add up the total debt on the other hand. They would quickly see that the simple amount of debt multipled over the total amount of money and that, in fact, with the best will of the debtors to repay their debts, it is simply not possible, as in translation means that debts are technically non-refundable and that their payment of Sisif's work. I'll give you a concrete example. How much of the Croatian state has put into debt in the last 30 years, or 29 of its existence. Here, let someone add up all those billions as much as the state has paid off the debt. And then look at how much the government debt is and you'll actually see that the more debt is being paid, the more debt is increasing. And why is that? So because the system is designed in a way that the debt is returned by taking a new debt. It's this model that's been accepted by all the countries that accept debt doctrine. In such conditions and circumstances, in fact, by taking new credits to recover old debts only increases, only the new debt is taken on old, new interest, etc., and interest is said to be the seventh world miracle. Her effect is terrible. You will quickly get into a situation that is more interest than the amount of the principal loan. Especially if you go, or function in a system that does not go after those to pay back, but to increase. From year to year. And those stories of Maric that he's some kind of miracle mag, minor charismatic like that Reverend Judge, so it's like we're not going to have a deficit and so on. In the end, we had a deficit again and again the state had to borrow, and every year we have the same story, that this year we won't have a deficit, but by chance, every year we have it, and then I've asked it here in the Parliament at the time, if we have a surplus in the budget that Maric and the group claim, then why do we have to be in charge of 35 billion kuna or more, 40, to repay the loan, if, why is the state in debt? Why is the state planning a 40 billion kuna debt, if we have a surplus in the budget, what's that for? Well, of course there's no answer. Those questions I'm asking aren't being treated, they unfortunately don't matter to people in this high house. It's a reality that we face and then everyone wonders by the negative consequences of our society, and the key thing is that if our country is not free, if our country is in debt slavery, then we as its citizens can't be free. The state cannot be free, and the individual is free, no, because he who rules the state determines the laws and the individual and imposes his will on him. I call on the Croatian people to turn their brains on, to start thinking, not to let them do it with fools and ruling elites that are actually in the service of capital or financial institutions and work to make banks rich, while the vast majority of us have been poored by 99%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149329	And finally Mr. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the secretary of state with and from his colleague, respected colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens you are watching, we are discussing the importance of the proposal for a Law on Tax Dispute Resolution within the EU. The fundamental question raised here is whether there are any disputes leading from Croatia towards non-residents of Croatia means those in other EU member states. Someone said, maybe at first if I heard correctly that 15, 16% of them, I don't know if I heard it right, and that's at the level of one country we can say almost nothing. Why does Croatia not have so many tax disputes with someone from Austria, Germany, Italy, France etc.? Now that's the key question. Probably someone could say, so look, there is no need, there is no basis for starting tax disputes, so our tax supervision system in Croatia according to, in terms of non-residents Croatia is excellent and there is no such thing. We all know that there is a tax area, an area where there is a constant historical struggle between taxpayers paying taxes and state. Efforts to avoid tax to the state are as old as civilization means or since tax, money, etc., etc. Now let's cut to the chase right now. Croatia loses billions of kuna, billions of kuna due to tax evasion by non-residents, means foreign entities operating in the Republic of Croatia. This is done, in principle, a system of multinational companies that have extended business in the 10 countries of the world, thus developing a subtlely sophisticated way of avoiding taxes. Today it is here, several times the transfer prices were mentioned, a book I wrote somewhere in 2015, the Global Finance, I thoroughly described this mechanism and what it was about, but before that I would ask the representatives of the state here at the Ministry of Finance. Does the Ministry of Finance have, better said the IRS, a specially formed transfer pricing control team? Please answer that when you're at the end. Is there a team educated, educated for, specifically not to say, the fight against the hairstyle of transfer prices, if there are how many proceedings they have initiated against such companies from abroad and in which amount they are approximately? That's the real question. Now, we from the party change Croatia's knights we beat in the srid, we criticize, but we give solutions concrete, so here I will be very specific. Dear gentlemen, this is a matter for the government, so the Minister of Finance first and foremost. In the past 10 years, foreign trade chains, when I brought out here three years ago, the public was shocked because the facebook exposure was seen by about 600,000 Croatian citizens. 600,000 people were shocked that over 10 years of foreign poisoning chains in Croatia did not pay even kuna taxes on profits. Wait, please, for over 10 years. Well, it's billions of kuna, and on the other hand, nothing, ate the donkey wolf, and on the other hand, our country's tax boot stands on our necks to our workers, employers, and those whores on the payroll and that grandmother who had 10 liters of brandy. Well, you see that's where the muscles of the state show up. LIDL has now begun to earn some profit and some small amount of money, because the previous SDP and HDZ governments considered trade a strategic investment in Croatia. So all they built there was strategic. How much is there and what has been done will have to be answered and analyzed. Please center of trade strategic investment, so this strategic project was for destroying domestic trade, but for those 10 years domestic chains paid VAT and profit tax, not VAT pay these, tax on profits. So that was an additional comparative advantage for them, the tax system trampled on domestic sales chains, and it went to the benefit of the party. Well, dear citizens, you can see why Croatia is failing. So wherever we touch, we open up, so I'm surprised as an economist, a university professor, that the stone, on the stone in Croatia, remains, you believe. When a fellow economics professor comes to me, I can't finally explain to him how this country exists. So it has to flourish clientelem, corruption, everything else, people just manage, run, go abroad, etc., etc. What should I do? So the trade chains use transfer prices. What are transfer prices? Since the profit tax in Croatia is relatively high, they will charge for the same product according to Croatia's export price will set higher. Why? In order to minimise the difference between the selling price and the purchase price, it is taxed as little as possible. It's an expert explanation of the transfer price. Look. But I'm asking a question here again, I'm going to take the opportunity to say a few more things before 220 days ago I sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance, the IRS, where I asked a few questions, among other things this. The second question was whether to forgive the tax on some debtors, if yes, to which, a few more questions. I am publicly asking the question again why didn't you answer Mr. Maric, Minister of Finance and Presidents of the Tax Administration, Director? Are my questions problematic, endangering anyone's interests? I don't want to believe that. Please answer my representative's question, 220 days late. Because if everything's okay, that answer should be here in 15, 20 days. I'm not going to give up, I've sent four more representative questions to HANFA at the Ministry of Agriculture, etc. And I will insist on those answers. So, go ahead and form a team. In Japan, they can't sleep with multinational companies because their tax administration and their transfer pricing team don't give sleep, they don't give peace to multinational companies. Why? For they have slain them with evidence, and they have earned billions of yen to their country. Who still charges transfer prices and thus avoids paying taxes? Banks. How's the bank? Well, because they're going to import loans from their home countries at higher interest rates here. Therefore, they practically charge the debt immediately. And not to say fictitious invoices between companies that don't practically exist. It's billions of kunas, my people, billions of kunas. And when we change Croatia through the will of the citizens to power, it becomes part of the new government, we will open these issues because you see why they have not so far? Well, they're all obviously stuck in it, all of them. We will open and reduce tax pressure on citizens, workers and employers because until this is resolved, there will never be a discharge. Therefore, we will also introduce a tax on bank property, tax Internet companies that avoid paying taxes, etc. The tax that reduced VAT from 25 to 13% on food imports, you know what you did with that? Nothing. Citizens did not feel any benefit, but therefore increased imports of agricultural products from abroad as 12% of points decreased VAT payments immediately, became liquid, importers bought more. I'd have a lot more to talk about, but I think I've made myself very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149331	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149332	Final proposal of the Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the EU, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 637, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. I find that most votes, 111 "for", 1 "abstained" and 1 "against" have been passed by the Law on Tax Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149333	Now we move on to the following: - Final proposal of the Law on Psychological Activity, second reading, P.Z. No. 551 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the amendment was submitted by the HDZ Club. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Ms Margareta Majeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The psychological activity was for the first time arranged by the 2003 Law on Psychological Activity. Over time, the need for the law to be nomotechnically updated and regulated and to comply with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications has been observed. The need for harmonisation of laws with contemporary principles and knowledge of psychological sciences and practices has also been seen in order to improve the quality of the exercise of psychological activity in the Republic of Croatia, the need to clarify the conditions for the exercise and termination of the exercise of activities, the rights and obligations of professional training and the organisation of the exercise of activities as well as the extension of the public powers of the Croatian psychological chamber to the recognition of foreign professional qualifications procedures. The entry into force of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications has shown the need for intervention in the provisions of the law in the part of the regulation of the conditions for the exercise of psychological activity as a regulated profession as well as in the part of the public authority of the Croatian Psychological Chamber, which should carry out the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications as a competent authority and should be given public authority to conduct procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. In accordance with the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, a clearer order of persons performing the psychological activity of foreigners and EU citizens is needed. In relation to first reading, the text of the law is in line with the proposals and remarks adopted in the debate before the working bodies and at the meeting of the HS, and the objections we did not accept are detailed. The comments of the Legislative Committee relating to the nomotechnical supplementation of statements and the following comments concerning the need for equal authority of the chamber over all psychologists, the need to delete the exception for the supervision of the work of psychologists employed in the pre-school and school education system to be carried out in accordance with rules on expert-pedagogical supervision in the system of education and education, the need to resolve the concepts of the client and the user, the possibility of enrolling psychologists who carry out activities in the civil sector of the register and records and the possibility of temporary termination of the right to exercise psychological activity with the aim of increasing administrative dispensation of chamber members, are further regulated and the work and powers of the chamber. The following is proposed to HS to pass the Law on Psychological Activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149335	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, and it's the first time Mr. Ljubica Lukacic will speak in front of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149336	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with an associate. Here, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all and here I am going to say a few words about the Law on Psychological Activity. So before us is the Law on Psychological, Final Proposal for the Law on Psychological Activity, which is in the second reading. It's been discussed here in detail in the first reading, and here, I'd say for starters, what's the point of doing psychological activity. We all know that psychological activity is extremely important for users and society as a whole and its purpose is to improve the health and quality of life of users of psychological services and society as a whole and to improve development, organisations and institutions and, as I said, society as a whole. Psychological activity is carried out in all social areas affecting the health and quality of life and the efficiency of users of psychological services as well as the development and improvement of institutions and society as a whole. In order for psychological activity to be carried out and functioning, it is necessary to regulate it by law in the best possible way. As the secretary of state has already noted, psychological activity has been regulated for the first time in the Croatian law since 2003. In view of the passage of time and other circumstances, it was necessary to pass a new law since the need for the law to be nomotechnically updated, to be regulated and to comply with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, as well as with the provisions of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Furthermore, the need to comply with the Law on Contemporary Principles and Knowledge of Psychological Science and Practices has been observed, and all in order to improve the quality of psychological activity in the Republic of Croatia, then the need for clearer regulation of the conditions for the performance and termination of the activity. Hopes, rights and obligations of professional training and the organisation of the exercise of activities, as well as the extension of the public powers of the Croatian Psychological Chamber, which is by this law, by the final proposal and done. The law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications required intervention in the provisions of this law, and in the part of the regulation of the conditions for the exercise of psychological activity as a regulated profession. Compared to the first reading, as the State Secretary mentioned, there have been some changes in this final text of the law. Some of the provisions were accepted, and those not the ministry explained in detail. Dear Secretary of State, the HDZ Club will have one amendment to the final proposal for this law. The amendment concerns Article 31, which we propose to include in Article 31 and paragraph 2 in the Vice-President of the Chamber, since we believe that according to this Law on Psychological Activity, it is necessary for the Management Board to make up the President of the Chamber, for now it was 6 members and we consider it necessary to be the President of the Chamber, Vice-President of the Chamber and 7 members elected by the Assembly for a period of 4 years. I ask you to consider our amendment and accept it since we feel that this article should also be edited for the sake of better decision-making in the chamber. We believe that this law will contribute to better and better quality activity, psychological activity and that both users and society will have a better service as a whole. Following that club, HDZ will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Psychological Activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149337	Thank you, Mrs. Lukacic. I will now take the opportunity to welcome the team of young Croatian Red Cross volunteers from the First Help of Ivan Zakmardi Djakovsky High School from the Cross, thank you for being with us. Hello, nice hello, everyone! It is now in front of the GLAS Representatives Club, Mrs Vesna Pusic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149338	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Psychological activity is likely in one period or at some point a transition between something that is almost unpleasant or Stigmatizing into something that is standard and should be a normal form of help to the functioning of people in society. So something that in perspective should be like a dentist. In other words, something that is available to everyone as a way of simply helping to deal with everything that life brings to man, what modern society brings, conflicts, various things that people do not do and shouldn't do, but should help them to function in more complex and alienated conditions of modern society. So, according to some of the information that the applicant here states that in the time since the law was passed, more than or approximately anywhere has doubled the number of psychologists registered in the Croatian psychological chamber, so it is evident something, one activity that is in expansion and logical to assume that it is in expansion because there is a need. The things discussed in this proposal are to improve the quality of the exercise of psychological activity, to clarify the conditions or to define the conditions for the performance and activity, the manner of the organisation and the activity and additional powers of the chamber. The main additional authority of the chamber is nostrification, so recognition of foreign diplomas or foreign qualifications so that this psychological activity can take place in Croatia. I will focus on a few new things that are prescribed by this law compared to its original version when it was first adopted in 2003. The first thing that is significant, and in our opinion, is that criteria are being met so for a person who has the right to wear the title of psychologist instead of only undergraduate education, the need for a undergraduate or pre-graduate and graduate psychology study is being introduced in order for someone to get the title of psychologist. I don't think that needs any particular explanation. We support that, we think it's positive in this law. Croatia's psychological need is also a new moment given the right to nostrification as I said, I will return to that later, the chambers are important and good things and should have powers. The only question is who will control the controllers. So when you have an institution that is God and a beating, or that has all the powers, that by the logic of things, simply by the organisational structure, always raises the question of who then is in charge of this institution, taking over, the power of this institution over the whole profession. So the chamber is certainly an important and good thing, but we need to have very clear control criteria, so to speak. The third new thing is that unlike the old law, people who get permission to deal with psychological activity will no longer have to renew that license every six years. This is also considered to be an improvement, so if there is control over how work is done and defined procedure, how someone is deprived of the right to do the job, so under what conditions he is deprived of the right to do the job, then it is pointless and there is an obligation that is stated here that people who are engaged in psychological activities are perfected and defined in what way they must be perfected, then it is pointless to ask people every 6 years to renew that card, so if they are doing their job based on the insight of institutions that control it in accordance with all the rules, not only the laws but also the rules of profession and training within the profession, then this really looks more like a bureaucratic obstacle than helping to achieve certain quality in the exercise of psychological activities, so we also consider it an improvement. Instead of that permit, something called an authorised psychologist is introduced, and this status of an authorised psychologist is then automatically given the right to engage in this psychological activity. Hence, the list is published for reasons and situations in which a person who has received such a license loses the right to perform psychological activity, and this is very important. So this combination between you on the one hand that you don't have to renew it every 6 years and on the other hand that you have clearly stated criteria when someone who has obtained this license loses the right to perform this activity is a very important combination and it's important that customers are particularly sensitive members of society because the possibility of persons who carry out psychological activity of influence on clients is very often about people who are or in some difficult situation of life, in which a person is more susceptible and suggestible to me to say, therefore more susceptible to the suggestions of someone who is in the position of a consultant or some kind of doctor or person who helps you, and therefore is unusually... Such activity, of course, always potentially carries with it the possibility of abuse, and it is therefore unusually important to control the existence or absence of any of these elements which represent sufficient cause to lose the right to psychological activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, innovation is also that it enables psychologists to specialize in certain areas and to be recognised as I do, for example, by this specialization in certain areas. The psychology of education or family or specifically related to victims of violence, therefore there is a whole series of subvariants, sub-specialisation or specific areas for which psychologists or persons who are allowed psychological activity can specialize and this law allows them to recognize and then be made public, so that there are people who are then specialized in psychological activity for individual segments. And finally the sixth news is that more, it's probably in the content there but also so far but not in the title, that people who pass a professional exam don't take a professional exam simply but take a psychological professional exam in other words, specializing precisely in psychological activity. I guess by content, that's what it's been up to now, too, but that's not what it was called. So the last thing I've already hinted at at the beginning of my exposure to which I really need to pay attention here is the chamber. Psychologists have no obligation to join the chamber. However, psychologists who seek this status, therefore seeking the status of a foundation that can then deal with psychological activity, have an obligation to join the chamber, which means that no one who is not a member of the chamber can carry out this kind of self-experienced psychological activity. This has its rational reasons in our opinion, therefore, the fact of the need to control, but it must not be converted into its opposite and therefore the control of the operation of the chamber is also very important, the public functioning of the chamber is also very important, it must not have the basis or the possibility to become an institution that in some way all psychology holds in the hands, if you are not good with the chamber you can't get a pass or you can't get the right to engage in any activity. As I said, the chamber has its purpose and is an important institution and a professional institution, but all of us who have experience with such an organisation of institutions know that there is always with expertise and this element of power, even within one profession, and therefore this element on the one hand is the functioning of the chamber, on the other hand, control of the functioning of the chamber in accordance with all the prescribed criteria and the law is an unusually important task. The GLAS club will support this law because it believes it really simplifies and improves or opens up the possibility of improving the functioning of this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149339	Now it's in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry, the SDP Club will support the Final Proposal for the Law on Psychological Activity. We believe that the final text ensures the provision of more quality services to all users, also to protect them from possible incompetent and unprofessional service providers as soon as possible. We welcome the acceptance of the comments and the SDP Representatives Club from the first reading, in particular those relating to the need for equal authority of the chamber over all psychologists where we insisted on the part relating to pre-school and school education systems, the removal of exceptions to the supervision of the work of psychologists employed in pre-school and school education systems being carried out in accordance with the rules on professional pedagogical supervision in the system of education and education, the resolution of the concept of the client and the user, the ability to enroll psychologists who carry out their activities in the civil sector in the register and records, as well as the possibility of temporary termination of the right to exercise psychological activity. In this way, we believe that the legal solution is better suited to the needs of the profession in practice, and that guarantees, of course, better quality services for end-users. I would especially like to emphasise the role of psychologists in the school system, which is why we have also focused in our remarks after the first reading on this particular part, given the importance of psychologists to healthy students in all primary and secondary schools, and I hope that this law will also lead to the employment of more psychologists in all primary and secondary schools. For example. In secondary schools, 439 psychologists were employed at 159 000 primary school students, 316 000 students were employed by 2705 professional associates, and of these professional associates 806 were educators, 378 psychologists, 605 educators, which indicates that the number of professional school associates, although the number of students declines, when it comes to psychologists, is still not enough, it is not only about caring for students who seek, but also about students who are particularly gifted, who also need the availability of psychologists to develop all their abilities. Most of the time, the SDP advocates club supports this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149341	In front of Mrs. HNS's Club of Representatives. Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149342	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here, here is the final proposal of the Law on Psychological Activity. As far as the psychological activity itself and its importance is concerned, it is very nice to be explained by colleague Lukačić and the need for this activity, so that she does not specifically refer to the part and the need for psychological activity in our society in all segments, especially in the development of our young people, from primary, secondary education and beyond. Here, this law that was in force in 2003. He had a lot of shortcomings, it changed a lot, so it's really good that we now have a new bill that introduces both stricter and clearer criteria for the definition of psychologists, or instead of a previous definition that psychologists who have completed undergraduate education are intended for the education of psychologists, it's been suggested that psychologists who completed undergraduate or pre-graduate and graduate studies of psychology in the Republic or have recognised foreign professional qualifications for performing a regulated profession of psychologists, which has been a problem we've often met with, and this is also needed to bring this into line with the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. We have so that, for the purpose of harmonising with the provisions of the Service Act, and with the purpose of administrative discharge, the obligation to obtain and provide basic and special clearances for the exercise of psychological activity every 6 years, and the possibility of confiscation of the basic and special clearances to a psychologist who does not renew his license within the prescribed time limit, we have also heard in discussions that there is no logical and reasoned explanation, an explanation for these credentials especially because the introduction and obligation of continuous improvement in psychological activity so that this does not really make sense. Instead of a permit, the status of authorised psychologist is introduced which is obtained by recognising the right to exercise psychological activity when it is established that the conditions laid down by law for the recognition of the right to restore psychological activity are met. A decision on the recognition of the right to exercise psychological activity, a psychologist acquires both the right to carry out that activity and loses it taxively when he is deprived of that licence or the name of an authorised psychologist, and one of these conditions is what I have already stated among other things and if he does not fulfil the obligation of professional training that is also prescribed by a normative solution. The novelty is also the specialization of psychologists, so we now have specialized psychologists from certain areas with specific knowledge in the area, and they are enrolled in the chamber directory. We also mentioned chambers here. The chambers can really be important for a particular activity, or they should primarily be a connection and exchange of experiences and assistance in a particular profession. I don't want to believe that they turn into something else sometimes, although there are such cases, but all psychologists can decide whether they want to be members of that chamber or not unless they're self-activating an authorised psychologist, then the bonds are to be members of that chamber. About the levels of membership fees and what they represent for users I wouldn't talk too much either, but if the chamber has a purpose, if it provides services and assistance to its members, then it's really fine, and otherwise. In the end, I would just add that there have been some changes to the first reading that have improved this law so that it is even more quality compared to the one we had in our first reading and that it was really necessary to adopt it and the HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149343	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Petar Škorić will have an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149344	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, here are the reports of the promoters and the debates of clubs, and it is clear that we all agree and that it is a good thing that the law from which it was adopted in 2003 is changing and that this proposal essentially places many things in place and will significantly improve the general field of psychological activity both for the application and for the conditions and the way in which it is implemented, as well as for the issue of organisation and supervision of the overall psychological activity in our country. In order not to repeat myself with my colleagues and with what this one pointed out and so on, I'm going to mention just a few things where I think that for better understanding and for that clarification of the field expertise should be defined or perhaps explained through some other regulations. It is a question of how to practically protect the service provider or clients from so-called. self-proclaimed psychologists because the bill requires the name of psychologists can only be used by persons who are authorized psychologists or persons who have completed a study of psychology. Therefore, it is necessary to prescribe an act in which it will clearly stand for who may be and who must not use the name of psychologists to prevent individuals who have abused it so far. Also, on the question of the acquittal, it is positive that the acquittal will not have to be renewed every 6 years, so this will now be a new solution that will result permanently. However, here we have by and certain associations of psychologists especially those who, by doing so, have this as their practice of remarking that, to abolishing the name of a license and transforming itself into a solution. So, to be clear, the license so far was a beautiful act to be issued on, it seemed to remind a certain degree and psychologists who in their private practice would frame such passers-by and place them in a visible place, making it clear to both clients that psychologists were thus confirming their legal status of work authorisation. The form of these new solutions, of course, I have already said the achievements that do not have to be renewed but in a certain way make a difference and perhaps in some way degrade this permission document and if the word acquittal is brought to life, there is no reason not to issue a certain and valid card which would be visible. Also, the proposal for Article 8 of the Law provides that criminal acts are to be carried out which cause a person who is legally sentenced to loses the right to exercise psychological activity, it is certainly good to strengthen ethical principles and everything else we want to ensure. However, we also have an objection that the restrictions may be too harsh for psychologists because, for example, if a person participates in a fight that has not even begun and does not want to participate or has been forced to defend itself, it can also result in a criminal sanction, therefore, and without ending the procedure for such a person to be deprived of the ability to perform psychological activity but I believe that this will be regulated. Also related to the regulations of chamber headquarters in Zagreb, I think it may be unnecessary to state in law the seat of the chamber can be anywhere in other cities and in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, but I think there was no need to define the place where the chamber is located. In any case, it is important that this law improves the status of psychological activity. Many provisions have been defined, among them more clearly infringing provisions than any person who carries out psychologically, the rights and obligations of mentors and trainees are regulated, and we support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149345	One replica of Mr. Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149346	Thank you. A respected colleague must react to what you have said and it concerns violence and criminal sanctions that a person who carries out a psychological activity may be subjected to. As soon as criminal sanctions are imposed, it is obvious that it is a person in need of psychological treatment rather than a psychologist who has acted in such a situation. The meaning of psychologists and psychological treatment to strengthen man's life and, among other things, to resolve conflict situations in an appropriate way. If a psychologist had participated in conflict situations in a way that had broken the law and had been given some kind of sanctions, I would have told him, not to prohibit him from working in psychological activity, but for the rest of his life, that he was visiting a psychologist who wasn't that he wasn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149347	Mr. Škorić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149348	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, we've got it all wrong. So I welcomed the introduction of high moral principles in psychological activity, however, according to these proposals, and I received a warning from the service itself that even if a person is being prosecuted before a competent court, whether or not the person is proven guilty of proceedings. In any case, I think that these measures are extremely rigorous for psychologists themselves because in the end, if someone is not proven guilty and in the meantime his license is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149349	... Send him to a psychiatrist then that psychologist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149350	Final proposal of the Law on Psychological Activity, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 551, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, so I would like to ask the Proposer's representative to show that the amendment has been submitted. With us is respected Margareta Majeric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted and becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149352	An integral part of the law, therefore, and this amendment enters it by voting the Final Proposal of the Law on Psychological Activity, please vote. I find that most votes, 113 "for" and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Psychological Activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149353	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Social Activity, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 552; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ club and representative Marko Sladolev. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? The state secretary, Ms Margareta Majeric, of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, is again in charge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149354	... MPs and MPs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Social pedagogical activity has so far not been regulated by law, the adoption of this Law on Social Pedagogical Activity is for the first time regulated by the socialpedagogue activity in the Republic of Croatia and the proposed normative solution aims to ensure the necessary level of professional competences of persons performing socialpedagogical activity and create preconditions to improve the quality of activity. The relevant law will affect the employment of persons performing a socio-pedagogical activity, since the conditions for carrying out activities and procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications are more clearly regulated. The adoption of this law will allow the monitoring of experts performing the social and quality of their work, as well as the monitoring of the entry into the labour market of persons who have acquired a qualification outside the Republic of Croatia through the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in accordance with the conditions of a specific regulation. Compared to the first reading, the text of the law is in line with the proposals and remarks adopted in the debate before the working bodies and at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and the objections which are not respected are detailed. The comments of the Legislative Committee relating to the nomotechnical supplementation of statements have been accepted in relation to the indication covering all social pedagogical activity with the aim of increasing administrative discharge of chamber members are further regulated work and powers of the chamber. The proposed law will not require additional funding because the funds are secured in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149355	Thank you. One replica of Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State I have only one short question, so the public debate shows that you have in fact ignored in some way the Croatian Association of Social Pedagogues in this law, so there are five of them here in the public debate, none of them are accepted. So I'm going to suggest amendments similar or actually identical. And why did you not include the profession in the drafting of this law since the Croatian Association of Social Pedagogues has something to say about this law and that the remarks they sent are very logical and professional?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149357	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149358	Thank you very, very briefly, they were members of the task force. As you said, the proposals and remarks made in the public debate most of them were not accepted and this is the second reading, the final proposal of the law and during and meetings of the working bodies and discussions on HS, but most of the remarks were accepted, what we could not accept, we explained in detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149359	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's Mrs. First. Željka Josic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149360	I thank the chairman. Dear State Secretarys with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Social Activity, all of you who are here today very well know that we also agreed in our first reading on one, and that this is indeed a profession that must receive a law in which there is a very clearly defined field of work, action, the purpose of carrying out the activity, as the concepts are also important for this activity. What is very important to social pedagogues is that the terms and conditions for the social pedagogical activity are prescribed, the way of obtaining the right to enrol in the social educators' directory, as well as the concept of an authorised social educator, and the conditions for the exercise of private practice. Let us not forget how this activity covers the field of social care, education, education, health, justice, science, how often we can see them in research centres, then civil society organisations, in the MUP, and not list further where the social educator is needed. Social pedagogues usually work with the most sensitive population, and we know very well that they are mostly children and usually with children who have difficulty growing up, which means they must be well educated and able to recognise children’s needs. We who have small children of kindergarten know very well when we come to the first conversation with a kindergarten to enroll the child that the social educator is part of the team you address when you enroll in kindergarten. But we also know that as we distance ourselves from large cities, whether it is the City of Zagreb or the cities that are the centers of certain counties, these teams in kindergartens are becoming increasingly scarce. And here I would once again appeal to all of our local units who are the founders of kindergartens to think very carefully about teams and to educate them as best they can. I also know that the enrollment quotas for these professions are extremely small in our colleges, so here we could use a very good help from the Ministry of Education if we could get a little bit of that quota improved. Of course, in addition to kindergartens, social educators are found in schools, children's homes, nursing homes, social care institutions. All of this is very clear to us how social educators are extremely important in our society, they are important for the psychosocial functioning of their users, which, of course, affects the quality of their lives. Given the needs of modern society, it is clear how many people in this activity need additional training, but also guidance towards narrow specializations. Thus, this law is very clearly defined precisely in the area of training in narrow specializations. We believe that the adoption of this law is very important in order to strengthen both professional identity and thus the social status of the social educator himself. I would also like to commend our ministry, which adopted certain proposals that are truly constructive, which came out during the debate during this bill. Of course, we always want to add a little bit more, so here's how we put the amendment to the article at some point. 29. where we have only proposed that the Management Board, other than the President of the Chamber, should act as the Deputy President of the Chamber and, of course, another member should be added at that time. Here, these are just little bits and pieces of change that I believe over time will continue to crystallize certain things that may need to be done in this law and that will need to be improved. But so far, it is very important that social educators, psychologists, educational rehabilitators, and their professions come and get their legal basis. Of course, the HDZ Club will support the final draft of the law and we believe that social educators will still get their social, in society a certain role that belongs to them. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149361	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Pusic in front of the GLAS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. State secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, here it is stated that with this law for the first time regulates social-pedagogical activity in the Republic of Croatia, etc., all the conditions and everything else that goes with it. This does not mean that social pedagogical activity is a new activity in the Republic of Croatia. It exists in the Republic of Croatia for a very long time, it as a type of engagement activities and field of research, areas of action, areas of assistance in society, exists very long. Probably as long as psychoanalysis. However, so far it has not been regulated in this way by law. It is prescribed here in 16 points, the different aspects of action are prescribed, i.e. the socio-pedagogical activity, which includes and lists 16 aspects of action or 16 different types of activities. Therefore, through what includes socio-pedagogical activity with the aim of clearly defining the area of course although everyone who has worked in that kind of work is clear that there will always be overlapping, there will be overlapping with other aspects of pedagogical activity, there will be overlapping with psychological activity, there will be overlapping with sociology, so with a whole series of things, but that is also a purpose. The Croatian Chamber of Social Pedagogues is also established here, as I said in the debate on the previous point, so important, of course in a manner of status, brings status and persons, brings status to the profession. You should always look at this second aspect that I have already described in the debate on the last item of the agenda, since if you look at these 16 activities, if on the other hand you have in mind what in the real life of the social pedagogogical encounter and should do, which different knowledge and, most often, will be needed and what it will all be, I think it is quite obvious and it will be necessary that, in time, the basis of the checks in practice, the basis of what people will really have to do, so social educators will really work in practice, that this law will also experience changes and improvements as it was just in the previous point of the case with the Law on Psych Activity which it is, nothing dramatic has changed in it, but the basis of application has become obvious that some things should be simplified, I would say firstly, somewhere the criteria raised, and somewhere simplified procedure. It is almost inevitable as soon as you taxively list the types of activity or aspects of activity as is the case here that this checklist in practice and in practice in time will experience modifications, therefore changes or certainly additions, but I think it is also a logical process. Therefore, this is certainly a positive step and the GLAS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149363	Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149364	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club will also support this proposal, part of the remarks that we made in the first reading is respected, part of it is not, but we believe that this law really improves working conditions and ensures a better quality of work that both employees and users of these services of socio-pedagogical in the system are welcoming. Also, the law certainly brings recognition to social workers in terms of respecting their profession, the profession they are engaged in, but of course it is only the first step. The law itself will not be resolved unless it applies and creates preconditions and that social educators can work in the welfare system, in an education system in a way that will ensure that the assistance needed is provided in the most qualitative way. So we support this law but we hope that its application will be ensured. A colleague, Josic, opened one topic concerning registration quotas, so also when it comes to social pedagogues, when it comes to psychologists, educational rehabilitators, these are all directions in our universities where very small registration quotas are. What should certainly be said is that the Ministry of Science and Education can't do anything about it because it is in the domain of university autonomy and in fact universities determine their registration quotas, and we saw that this year they didn't do it very well because there are 11,000 unlisted and the question of how many of these quotas that are offered are actually what Croatian society needs. Here I will highlight the positive of one of the Rijeka universities since this topic, which has succeeded in creating assumptions that educational rehabilitators at the University of Rijeka are going to start as well. So, this is what we, as Parliament's representatives, can appeal to universities for the next academic year to review their registration quotas, and those registration quotas will be such as to meet the needs of Croatian society, not the needs of employees at the university, because universities are there not because of university workers, but because of students and the needs of Croatian society. So, in addition to our discussion on this subject, which is related to the Law on Educational Rehabilitation, Psychological Activity, Social and Pedagogical Activity, it is certainly in the application of quality education of quality personnel, and of course our universities are in charge of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149365	And now finally in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGE will be spoken by Mr Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149366	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, I formally speak on behalf of the club, really on my own behalf, somehow the name of the club guarantees me that I can perform independently. Since the '90s, if we've been looking at the way the Republic of Croatia has been developing, then we're meeting what in the Republic of Croatia everything needs to be defined by law to be recognized in reality but to create reality. Social pedagogues are those who have been simply present so far. There was no law that would regulate social pedagogue activity, there was no special law. This ministry, which is located in the Republic of Croatia, which is a young Republic of Croatia, has one complex task, which is to take care of public emotions, care for compassion and care for assistance. All the laws or main laws that come from this ministry are laws that will give us exactly this human human component in society and in the state. We have heard what social pedagogists are important for, if they are important for nothing else because we have forgotten them in the past decades, but they are important because they have not forgotten this society, because they acted according to their knowledge, which is the knowledge that is directed towards individuals, according to families, according to different groups, towards society and institutions. They do not only bring plans of action; they do indeed. They don't just carry out treatments, they work after treatment. In order for them to do so, they must enter a circle that guarantees them to be constantly educated, to exhibit education, and to explore and to expand the content of what will become of future social educators. I find this Article 4 most interesting in this law, which is an article that says that this activity is derived and founded in human rights and humanism. This as nice as it sounds, it's a little bit of a general thing, even for me, the philanthropists. I don't know, we can't view human rights as something that's self-inflicted. Good in the Republic of Croatia, philosophers are seen as those who have nothing to do in politics. For what? Well, it's because there's a lot of politicians who wouldn't have to do anything, so here they are in politics. But there is no philosopher who will fight for the concept of human rights that he is not interested in politics because human rights are not produced or derived from divine will, but human rights originate and are guaranteed by the state. A state that makes laws like this, turns human rights into civil rights. Civil rights are defined, laws define what needs to be protected and allowed as human rights. So only human rights is a possibility and the state through its strong institutions, through a society that will not be buried in the selfishness and senselessness of individual groups which in our country, thank God... Especially from an election cycle to a cycle and instead of humanism, they offer animalism and animalism at best, we also have such laws as to bring to the public's attention that humanism is not a possibility, not a word that exists outside the law, and if it happens to be in this law, then let it be the last case in the Republic of Croatia that future all laws come from humanism that we know what it means from humanism that will be founded in human rights and the state will precisely because of the concept of human rights empower citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They will not take away the rights of national minorities, will not be fierce and forget personal history to support some candidates who participate in those activities that preceded this law, which was a law of oblivion to help because social educators help society, help individuals, help groups. Let us remember when it comes to humanism, one part that almost everyone has read about existentialism and humanism, Sartre, here, speaks of how it is necessary to base existentialism and humanism on something. But Sartre says it's possible for a coward to stop being a coward and stop being a hero. That's what we've seen heroes stop being heroes, but I've never seen a coward stop being a coward before in my life. The social pedagogues are precisely because of this possibility that we all sink into cowardice and social individual destruction, that we all become pronouns of disorders from mental to social from political to personal, from professional to religious, social pedagogue, and this law that is only at first should help the Republic become a civil state to protect human rights on the basis of civil rights and that on the basis of institutionally recognised emotions that we hold to social capital, we are passing such laws that in all our fellow citizens will see heroes who will never cease to be heroes. So far, they're social pedagogues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149367	Thank you. Now I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149368	Final proposal of the Sociopedagogue Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 552, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and the representative of the Marko Sladolev. I would again like to ask the respected Margaret Mađeric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy to show off on the amendments. First, we're going to the HDZ Representatives' Club amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149369	The amendment is accepted and becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149370	Thank you. And now we're going to the second amendment, it's a respected colleague, Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149371	The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that the Final Proposal of the Law on the Social and Pedagogical Activity is clearly prescribed that the Ministry of Social Affairs is carrying out administrative supervision and that the chamber is carrying out expert supervision and that in this sense it is clearly prescribed what is involved in the implementation of administrative and professional supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149372	Here's an indication of my colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149373	Thank you, Mr. President. So my amendment applied to professional supervision of the work of social educators being carried out by the chamber, I think it's in the description of her and her work. Otherwise they participated actively in the public debate, they participated in a public group. Therefore, the public hearing shows that 5 of their requests have not been accepted. It is logical for me that the chamber conducts expert supervision and my amendment refers, therefore, to the fact that it is very realistic because in the interpretation of the amendments it stands out that if the competent ministry or public institution in the ministry has an employee social pedagogogogogical for the exercise of supervision then the chamber can respect its expert findings. So in the debate itself, and in this law, I have expressed regret that the observations of the chamber are not accepted, I think they are the most interested party here and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149374	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so I am then voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Social and Pedagogical Activity. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 109 for and 10 abstentions has been passed by the Social Pedagogue Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149375	Now one proposal, we have two laws, two laws and in light of what we've heard in recent days and also for a long time, but especially in the last few days, both laws are important, but they're very compatible, so we'd like to combine the discussion with your permission, so that's: - The proposal for a law on air protection, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 681, - Proposal for a law on climate change and protection of the ozone layer, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 682 Does anyone mind if we discuss these laws together? There isn't. Then let's take it in a row. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted in both cases by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Does the motionary's representative, State Secretary Mr. Mile Horvat of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy want to give an additional explanation? I believe so because he's already here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149376	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I will give on behalf of the motionor an explanation for these two laws and try to sublime the essence of these legislative proposals as briefly as possible. Therefore, the applicable Air Protection Act was adopted in 2011 and has been amended four times and completed four times to date, mainly because of compliance with the EU acquis and because of compliance with a special regulation governing the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. During 2018, a number of new eu legislative packages have been adopted to regulate or restructure the area of climate change. Therefore, given the specificities of the area of air protection of climate change and the protection of the ozone layer and the regulation of EU legislation which clearly distinguishes air protection from climate change and the protection of the ozone layer from many directives and decisions, it was necessary to reorganise the existing legislative framework by separating these two thematic units. And that is why it has joined the adoption of a special Law on Climate Change and the protection of the ozone layer and of a special law on air protection. We of course took advantage of that opportunity, so then we expanded and developed some of the instruments that edit these two thematic areas. The basic issues that are being regulated by the Climate Change Act and the protection of the ozone layer will go through the basic articles that we think we need to apostrophy them here. Therefore, in the area of climate change, this proposal provides for the content and way of adopting low carbon development strategies by 2030, and with a view to 20150 and the adoption of an action plan for the five-year period, as defined in Article 12 of the same proposal. Article 14 provides for the content and the way in which the climate change adaptation strategy is to be adopted by 2040, which is in some way a new commitment from the European Directive. Article 100 provides for the content and method of adopting a plan for the use of financial resources derived from the sale of greenhouse gas units in the Republic of Croatia for a period of five years. Detailed monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions reporting by sectors and measures to mitigate the effects of climate change is also regulated in Article 21 of the proposed law. The allocation of emissions of units, the free allocation of emissions of units to plant operators and aircraft operators is prescribed, as is the case with Article 35 of the Law proposal. Article 39 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The procedures for the accreditation of the verifier, the issuing of a verification report, the responsibility of the verifier as well as the means for the exchange of relevant information between the plant operator or aircraft operator and the verifier as set out in Article 59 of this proposal shall be prescribed. Monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions from international aviation is also required, monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions in the life-cycle of liquid oil fuel and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport. In the area of the protection of the ozone layer, several institutes are more detailed and it is prescribed that licences be issued within 10 years for legal persons and craftsmen to carry out the activities of the collection, installation and service of devices and equipment containing controlled substances. So far it's been five years, so we've extended it to 10 years, that's settled in Article 86. It shall be prescribed in the field of education, vocational training, the obligation of professional training and regular training of persons carrying out the activities of the collection, installation and service of equipment and devices containing controlled greenhouse gases. The persons who complete the training programme and pass the expert exam receive an unlimited certificate, as set out in Article 91. It is prescribed that the implementation of the education programme shall be carried out by educational authorities from another institution if they meet the conditions laid down by this law. Of course, we've also arranged inspection and misdemeanor provisions to disobey the implementation of the provisions of this law. It is important here to say that three financial instruments and three financing mechanisms will be available to finance measures, mitigation and adaptation to climate change since 2021 under the Republic of Croatia's Emissions Trading System. These are the funding from emissions auctions, the modernisation fund, the innovation fund. This law provides for the use of financial resources resulting from the sale of emission units through auctions to be paid to the Special Account of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. The use of those funds shall be carried out in accordance with the plan for the use of the financial resources obtained from the sale of emission units through auctions in the Republic of Croatia by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the second modernisation fund instrument, Croatia has been at the disposal of 3.14% of emission units in the fund since 2021, which, when multiplied by the expected price of a unit that should be around 30 euros per tonne, is about, it is worth 292m euros and 2.2 billion kuna for a 10-year period by 2030. This law stipulates that the funding of this modernisation fund for the Republic of Croatia is added to 20% of the unit emissions from the auction volume and will therefore increase to 3.5 billion kuna. The funds of this modernisation fund will be used to invest in the machinery, modernise industrial production, produce and use of renewable electricity, improve energy efficiency, store energy and modernise energy networks. Energy efficiency in transport, which is very important to say, in buildings, in agriculture and in waste management. So these are the funds that will be able to be used through certain programmes from the modernisation fund. The third instrument, the third instrument of finance foreseen under this law, and the innovation fund is being established, so the EU is in principle playing a leading role in the world's climate change mitigation efforts, and therefore an investment fund is set up to have 450 million emissions in the period up to 2030, estimated at around 13.5 billion euros and 100 billion kuna, respectively. The Investment Fund is available to all Member States and will finance projects to support innovation in low carbon technologies and processes, capture and use of carbon safe for the environment. It will be used for innovative technologies, renewable sources and energy storage. Therefore, Croatia, Croatia, the EU has submitted its Integrated Energy and Climate Plan to the Commission for 2030, in which it has reported its emission reduction targets or increasing the share of renewable energy efficiency sources in line with the draft low-carbon development strategy by 2030 and, in conclusion, the implementation of this law will not necessarily require new funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget. So there's no extra cost. We spent our e-consultation in the drafting of this law, it was carried out by a commission that consisted of ministries, representatives of ministries, as state bodies, HUP, Chamber of crafts, HGH, various associations, we had one observation of the HUP regarding professional training that we had installed in the said article that I mentioned when I was talking about... Art. 91st draft law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for the Climate Change Act. Now I just think I'll be shorter with the Air Protection Act. The same are the reasons why we approached the adoption of this bill. This bill will make air protection more clear as one of the environmental components. The bill simplifies the creation of planning and strategic documents in such a way that air protection plans as an integral part of the environmental protection plan or air protection programme, as an integral part of the environmental protection programme, are not so far adopted, rather than as a separate document. It is given to the representative body of the City of Zagreb County and the large city to adopt an air protection programme which is an integral part of the environmental protection programme for the county, city or city of Zagreb or large city, and the content and method of adoption of the same, means these planning documents, strategic documents are defined by articles from 11-17 in all its elements. In addition, it is authorised the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt national plans, programmes and reports in order to implement and fulfil contractual obligations to international air protection contracts. As regards air quality controls themselves, areas of monitoring and assessment of air quality in the Republic of Croatia are being divided into zones and agglomerations. The levels of pollution, i.e. air quality categories, are defined in the light of the prescribed limit values. Air quality monitoring is defined by measurements at measurement stations to monitor the quality of the air of the state network, measurement stations in the area of units of local, regional self-government, the City of Zagreb, local self-government units and the third category on the polluter measurement stations, this is all planned, arranged. of the 18-37th of this bill. The provisions of the proposal also ensure public availability of air quality data. Therefore, data used to exchange information are defined, air quality reporting between the competent ministry and the EU Commission. This law and powers shall be conferred on the Minister responsible for environmental protection tasks to regulate certain categories, such as air quality monitoring, data collection, minimum number of measurement sites, measurement reference methods, etc., etc. The government regulates the regulations, defines the list of measurement places, prescribes emission quotas, the method of calculating emissions, the production of emission inventory, the regulation prescribes emission limit values... in air from fixed sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of an action plan, short-term action plans, shall also be detailed, 53.-54. there is a commitment, so the same are obligations to create and bring units of local self-government and the City of Zagreb to ensure, in the shortest possible time, the achievement of the limits and target values for certain pollutants. These are action plans, i.e. short-term action plans, so local self-government or the City of Zagreb and large cities cannot be excluded from this law. The obligations and procedures carried out in zones and agglomerations shall be further clarified when the levels of individual pollutants above the prescribed limit values are exceeded. I will remind the Republic of Croatia that this law is defined through 5 zones and 4 agglomerations are the City of Zagreb, Osijek, Split and the city of Rijeka. Definitely, the same thing is defined here and arranged by Articles 44 to 46 of this bill. The implementation of the measure, the measurement of the specific purpose, or the assessment of the level of pollution carried out in case of air pollution, which is established following the application of the State Inspectorate or the citizens’ application shall be defined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Importantly, the ministry's obligations, local self-government units, the City of Zagreb and major cities on public information and information content are prescribed. Articles 61 to 65 shall regulate the area of authorisation to carry out air quality monitoring activities, the conditions to be met by legal persons or test laboratories as legal persons established in the Contracting States of the Treaty on the European Economic Area for the performance of those activities shall also be prescribed by the business reference laboratory, as well as the conditions to be met as legal persons for the establishment of authorisations to carry out those activities in the field of the Republic of Croatia. Articles 76 to 94 shall lay down inspection controls, infringement provisions for non-compliance with the provisions of this Act shall be laid down. Funding is arranged in the same way as under the previous law, so this bill will not require additional costs in the Republic of Croatia's budget. We passed the e-consultation but the remarks were made by the Committee on Nomotechnical Nature's Legislatives and we had one remark from the Institute of Public Health where they asked for the inclusion and measurement of the pedestals. So the remark was rejected because the pollen is not in line with the EU Regulation is not a polluting substance. Therefore, the observations of the units of local self-government were accepted in terms of the regulation of certain technical implementations of this law, and I had already talked about it. So these are the proposal of one law and the other which are comprehensive, which are also very serious, serious legal texts, and we think that in one whole and very serious and complete way these, these two topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149377	Three replicas. The first line was sought by Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149378	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with my associates, I appreciate it, and I think it's a good thing we have a special law that defines climate change, but my question concerns an operational matter. So when you read strategies and everything that is related to climate change then one of the things that is extremely important, and that is further shaming and that is, therefore, the absolute and development of forests and space that is so devastated. We have passed one law in this assembly, and in this law is one provision that when the forest burns down that after 10 years, this space can be redeployed or it can become a building area, which is in absolute contrast with all strategies and all garters related to climate change. So I'm curious to know what your ministry's position was regarding that provision of the Forest Law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149379	Answer, here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149380	Dear MPs can admit you've a little surprised me with this question, I'm going to answer this question of yours which is very interesting to give by written means. So you wouldn't improvise now because I really didn't expect.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149381	Second replica. Mr. Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149382	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, we have heard here that a number of EU measures tend to increase the capacity for Member States to meet their climatic obligations, and they are key to achieving the necessary measures to reduce greenhouse gases and, certainly, to a large extent, include reducing greenhouse gases from various modes of transport, and here I would refer to one of the most important components of the European economy, which is maritime transport, because shipping carries about 90% of foreign trade and 40% of domestic trade in the EU, so it is also important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from this branch of transport. It is now up to 4% of total EU greenhouse gases and every day is increasing, and monitoring, reporting and verification of hydrocarbon emissions, carbon dioxide from maritime transport is also an obligation for our shipowners, and I wonder if you have any information as to whether our shipowners have submitted an annual report on carbon dioxide emissions, and should have delivered the verified report by the end of April 2019 to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149383	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149384	So, we have in the service, in the registers, we have a show register and the shipowners have to report annually, I don't have any specific information at this time how much these emissions are related to shipping alone, I have total, total data. So, on the total shows to just tell you the reference year was the '90s. Then traffic is somewhere around 3,800 shows to make it double to 6,600 today. Therefore, it says that they are analysing the data that the largest pollutants are actually traffic subjects. And by comparing it with other elements, with an industry that is in decline or with other sectors, we can develop an entire theory of why there is an increase here, and why there is a reduction in emissions in industry, he gave it because we are reducing industrial production or, of course, because we invested in renewable sources. Until now. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149385	And the last line was requested by Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149386	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear state secretaries with associates, here is the climate change, we all witness that they are getting stronger, faster and that the consequences of the economy, by nature and at all the quality of life, and some countries have decided to set up special teams, experts, inter-minors that will monitor climate change, report on it and make recommendations to the economy and farmers in what way they act, how the Republic of Croatia regulated it because I see here in the law that it is mostly an emphasis on ministries, public administration, cities, municipalities and citizens themselves. I think we should start one such body in the Republic of Croatia and we should be able to react more promptly to one inter-resor body. And secondly, when it comes to air quality, we see that you're putting down the obligation on the county, the cities, the municipalities to make action plans, but the question is how many cities and municipalities have to influence the economy, change energy for example, or change the way they produce, I think from a national level for one strategy and through these funds from an investment and modernisation fund would have to make... and assistance to municipalities, cities and counties [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I'm action plan won't [[Intruder: Time]] It doesn't mean anything without it. [[Intruder: Time, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149387	Time, time, Mr. Horvat's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149388	I thank you for asking. So, Art. 18th of this proposal of the law is given authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a Commission for Cross-Sectoral Coordination for the National Monitoring System for GHG missions and the Commission for Cross-Sectoral Coordination for Policy and Measures for Climate Change Facilitation and Adjustment. So when we adopt this law, we expect the government of the Republic of Croatia to appoint these two committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149389	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Marko Sladolev in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we have before us the legislative changes that are due to the situation in which it is necessary to separate the issue of air protection because of the complexity of the problems that this regulation is dealing with by several laws. The proposed legislative solutions are also, in fact, the transposition of the provisions of the EU directive into Croatian legislation and there are no significant reasons why these proposals would not be supported. What is not acceptable at all, and it is related to the problem covered by those legal solutions that prevails in the Republic of Croatia, according to which understanding of this complex problem remains only on a formal level. There is no deeper understanding of how the implementation of air protection measures and reductions in harmful gas emissions must apply to almost all sectors of action. The energy strategy at the stage of the White Paper is hardly able to have attributes of low-carbon energy because even the fastest scenario of the rise in renewable energy sources is too slow, and our lagging behind for European countries in this regard will only grow, as if we are not a Mediterranean country where even the necessary equipment is produced to exploit solar energy, so this direction of energy development would bring so much needed economic growth. The waste is still considered as fuel in the draft energy strategy, which creates new pollution emissions instead of accessing it as a resource for the circular economy, resulting in multiple impacts on energy savings, both directly and with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and many contaminants. Our ministry strategists can't learn that waste paper is more valuable in a paper factory than in a burner or cement plant as energy. With plastics, the difference is even bigger in favour of recycling. The real question then is why there is still no public call to finance environmental infrastructure in the form of vessels, vehicles and sorters, the only infrastructure that transforms waste from the communal problem into the possibility of raising sustainable our society. Therefore, State Secretary or Ministers, if you really recognize the problem of climate change and support the insistence that similar living conditions be granted to our children, then you should also show it to state policy. For example. Instead of dealing with decisions to close up landfills for selected cities and municipalities, which mean longer transport of waste to other dumps, higher costs, higher emissions in the environment, it would be much better to enable them to finance composts, varieties which, apart from resolving the communal problem, bring also a positive effect on these global environmental problems and through reducing emissions and through better use of resources, and you will also achieve the legal objectives prescribed. You do not think that the measure on co-financing of electric vehicles, unfortunately fully imported, is proof of the constitutionality and coherence of state policy in protecting the environment and transport. Of course, this measure also has some effects on the reduction of emissions from the transport sector in our country, but it has much greater effects on the car industry of the nearer or further countries. The non-serious nature of environmental protection and climate change reactions is also seen at the level of the definition of national delegations for the current European and global conferences on this subject. The people chosen to represent the Republic of Croatia are neither addressed to this problem nor to possess any competence for their active participation. At a conference organised by the Finnish Presidency of the EU Council, we send a representative who doesn't know where he's going as if he's going on a union trip. At a UN conference in New York where large countries send the strongest possible delegations, Croatia will be the president of the Republic. So there is no minister on it again, which means there is no top sectoral representative of the executive government. The final solution to climate change relates to the sustainable development package, implementation of the circular economy. Unfortunately, some circles have linked sustainable development to gender ideologies. This must not be a reason to deviate from the transformation that climate change requires and to transfer to the camp those who deny the existence of climate change problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149391	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash who will speak for the Voice Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149392	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with associates. Here we are in a united discussion of two laws, the Law on Air Protection and the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Layer. Climate change is a fact, different countries with different policies respond to the problem of climate change. I used those five minutes of free speech today to say and to point out the importance of climate change and the lady is sorry that this Parliament didn't recognize that importance so that this point today was in debate, point number one more than we have parallelly, and the UN, we have a climate summit, we have a topic of warming. They all talk about climate, and how much interest in Croatia even our parliamentary representatives, more than all the words speak the picture. There'll be a lot more of you in the bench representing the law than any of us who talk about it. Climate change is really a fact. Different countries react in different ways. On Friday, there is a country which, in a way, our eyes are always pointing at it, Germany, brought its programme and financial frameworks to reduce or adapt to climate change. Mrs. Merkel, when she was in New York, the U.N., boasted about the program, of course, she has her own faults, and she has her own advantages. What's kind of more acceptable to a country of the type of Croatia I think are programs like Denmark or the Scandinavian countries or the Netherlands. Climate change is a fact. Often people say there's a little less than four million of us, so what are we gonna do about it? So Germany could say, so we're the fourth economy, a much stronger economy is America and China, no matter what we do if China and America, you know very well that Mr Trump thinks that climate change is gone, if they don't do anything, we won't do anything. But if that's the way it is, then we can only tie the planet to Earth and turn off the light. Equally, when it comes to climate change, all countries must make an effort. Climate change and what's happening with us doesn't stop at the border between us and some neighbouring countries. That's what the people of Slavonski Brod know best when it comes to air protection. To them their air in the area of Slavonski Brod, their air is bad because of industry in another country. So there's no wall, so now, there's someone else. It's a process in which everyone should participate. And when it comes to air protection, when it comes to climate change, when it comes to the protection of the ozone layer, then everyone must participate in this process, the citizens must participate, everyone involved in agriculture, industry, different associations, the public sector, municipalities, cities, states, to make a small move or at least to remain on the status that we have right now. Scientists, I'm about climate change actually read a lot because I think it's a subject that can't be ignored. When you looked at not so long ago elections... related to the European Parliament, when there was also a debate of those candidates the big topics were climate change, how to adapt, how to adapt to industry, what to do, to open new jobs, to deal with some other types of agriculture, what to do for the ground, because scientists say that the increase in temperature is between 2 and 2.5 degrees. That's the facts. You don't need to take too much care, these are some facts to be counted on. We have two bill proposals, one Air Protection Act, the other one about climate change and the protection of the ozone layer, these two laws were made correctly. We can discuss whether it should be something better or something worse, let's be fair they've been made technically correct. I'm interested in one thing, I read it says that the reduction in the number of legislative acts, so I'm not interested in what the lawmaker meant, which is legislation for the reasons that there are still a number of regulations left, but there are a number of strategies left. Currently, we have in public debate a strategy that is somehow a mother strategy related to climate change, it is a topic that Croatia will by 2040 say the 2040 strategy with a view to 2070. And that's that list of good wishes for you and that's where you use one sentence, it's like someone writes that it's much better to be young and rich than old and poor, and we can all agree on that. But there are a number of things and a series of obligations that the Croatian state has and all that politics where the Croatian state is leading one policy out, we're going to pass laws, we're going to install all the standards that we have from the directive, we're going to follow everything, we're going to record everything, and we're going to show that Croatia is doing it nicely and then let's see what we're really doing here in Croatia because what we're doing towards the EU institutes is that we've respected everything, we've got everything, so we've got a hard one and we've done nothing at home, the real damage is going towards home. That's what we're seeing today. I didn't accidentally ask the secretary of state about the forest law. When you read a strategy related to climate change, there is not one strategy that is not referred to soil, which is not specifically referred to in the woods, which is not referred to and said to be further forested, that the soil that is devastated should be kept in check and noised with indigenous species, and then we adopt the Law on Forests, which provides that once the forest has burned down, after 10 years of burning, it has become a condition for something to become a building area. In other words, on the one hand we satisfy the form and on the other hand we do not control what is happening at home. I often used to call it picturesquely, it's like one train, that old train going on coal and that very much CO2 spending, and now you from all those cars are trying to throw all that extra out, but you're not as fast as someone else can get in that car. In late 2018, when certain things related to climate change were defined at EU level, Croatia took part in this, all of which there absolutely supported but then when we go back, then we actually see that we haven't done much. There are three things that would be very simple and very fast to do where Croatia would not only say, here we have passed a law that defines what climate change is, to install all the directives that we have from the EU, to satisfy the form. You'd have had enough right now to do three things. The first thing would be about industry. Imagine in the construction industry, and what you see, you can see that it is moving with energy efficiency, that this project has been swung and something that Croatia is absolutely recognized by the building material industry, that in this building material industry the maximum existing waste associated with what was created by the collapse, that it is subsidized in this way and that a certain tax policy so called. green taxes, that are products on the market, have a lower VAT rate and thus encourage citizens to buy and install it. Another measure that could be recognised at the same time, it is equally, Croatia becomes a diesel car warehouse. A number of cities in the EU have already made a decision, usually in 2030, that cars of certain degrees cannot arrive in cities, so that products of CO2, Ljubljana has made that decision, imagine that this decision should be taken by Zagreb. This is something that when it comes to an individual, it should really encourage people who are willing to introduce cars, to import cars that have a lower level of exhaust gas. And the third thing that would be very simple and very clear, that Croatia through its transport strategy as at one point decided to develop or build highways, to say our priority is railways. We'll do everything we can to make it happen, pull the maximum amount of resources we can pull out of a few things. Why the railroad? Because, first of all, all the destinations that are in Europe are much better even in some conditions and can be found more easily on the basis of them, so if you have a well-developed railway line than on planes, what it produces and does great damage to the environment and the ozone layer is fuel used in aircraft, and it is all a special chapter in this Climate Change Act, which and how it does, such a single decision at the state level would be a state decision to develop a railway not only for transporting people but rather for transporting goods for the simple reason that all EU countries really encourage the transport of goods to railways rather than highways. None of those three things we see. None of these three things will be seen in the term of office of this government. We'll hear about the black swans, we'll hear about who was fighting with whom, we'll hear about who was insulting whom, 3.4 minutes but we won't hear it. This law also highlights the importance of the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund. I also think that this fund is extremely important, it would be much better if we had heard about this fund these days about what it did, how many subsidies it was for our citizens, as much as it did from what the fund has, helped the citizens to buy household machines that are energy class, so not so long ago, we had energy class B and A. We energy classes are now three A. I guess the next generation will be that fourth generation A. I have to say that when the first time the energy certification of buildings were imposed, then it was said that all buildings should be energy class B. I think the time has come that the buildings could be or should be energy class A. I should listen to those citizens who had the possibility to use the grant funds, because it must be clear to us today that the funds that are connected with EU funds can be used for the energy efficiency of public buildings, for energy efficiency may be part of their private buildings, because they don't. So that would be the role of the fund, to rebuild our housing fund because the majority of the housing buildings were built in the 1970s, energy class, I'm afraid that if it went and I don't know which one. Citizens who have had the opportunity to restore energy to their housing buildings say the following. Not only are they much more comfortable, not only are their family homes incomparably better and better-looking than they feel on their wallets. So much less spending on energy than they've spent before. Therefore, we will continue to have laws, these laws will be handsome, we will be able to boast that we have at EU level that Croatia is the one that has fulfilled the legislation but let's go to real life. Let's just admit one thing. The secretary of state said that the level is seen on the 90th and Croatia was lucky that at a time when it was really in its tragedy that we have been through, that everything that Croatia has invested in the Bosnia industry is accounted for, so that when we talk about CO2 and when we come to the stock market, we have quite a profit, we will have a profit further, the point of the point is that from that profit our citizens feel something, the point is that the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund is not dealing with what we really have very, very uncomfortable hearing rather than dealing with what it really is founded, that the citizens of the Republic who really see climate change at any moment, and they feel how they can be helped and believe me, can be really in many ways of help, thanking them nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149393	Thank you very much. Now it is Mr. Zekanovic's turn to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Željko Hasanbegovic. Excuse me, Zlatko Hasanbegovica, I apologize, lapus linguae.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149394	Lapsus cerebra It's all right. [[/Intruder Radin: How did you say the lapus?]] No, it's called lapus mentis. [[No, no, you don't have to tell me, you have to tell me, what did you say? Lapsus? Cerebras. .../]] Mentis, well, cerebrum is the brain,... I'm not exactly a Latinist, but we understand each other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Now, go ahead.]] So, respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, here we are talking about an ecological topic, and I'm glad that we have these topics in the Croatian Parliament, but I haven't actually heard from you here that you're familiar with the problem, so we're talking about a law called the Final Proposal for the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone layer and the Proposal for the Law on Air Protection, which means that we're hearing little about how in Croatia, how it is in the world, it would be very nice to have a little Croatian public from this payphone hearing what is the situation, meaning why we're even protecting ourselves from ozone, why we need a ozone envelope or why we even bring this Air Protection Act if everything is okay, we haven't heard but here, I welcome this law and these changes. I'll get some of that. So, this is one topic that is very current, so we've had the last few days, yesterday, if I'm not mistaken and little Greta, a 16-year-old girl who spoke in front of the world statesmen about the problem our planet faces. But we don't have a solution, here's actually a statistical error of just 0 percent of the world's surface, of the world's population, so our impact on this one global system is very small, but of course, we also have to make sure that we are within that system or that we contribute to making the situation better. When we talk about air protection, I'd say here, what's not said, we have recently, so since the industrial revolution started the growing and larger production greenhouse gases, first of all it's CO2, slightly less CO, slightly less sulfur, means sulfur oxides, but also they're affecting the greenhouse effect. So when we talk about air protection, it's very important to say that these greenhouse gases cause the rise of global temperature, and thus we can stimulate the melting of the ice cap on Earth, the glaciers, meaning the ice caps in Antarctica, the North Ice Sea can be melted and the sea level can be raised. Here I am recently with experts who were most relevant in this field in Croatia, so I insisted that I finally be told that number of seas have grown, do you know? Here I will teach you, so experts say between 7 and 8 cm in the last 50 years, with one tendency, one acceleration so that it is expected and that by the end of the century it may be 70, 80 cm and these are already worrying figures and most Croatian cities, settlements, tourist settlements will be threatened. And that's what's important is what you, too, in front of the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection, must point out from this pay phone. So this isn't just a real threat, we have a global threat that won't pass either Croatian cities, Croatian settlements located in the coastal zone with the fact that we have, of course, climate change, we have some, meaning the climate that was relatively dry, becomes quite wet and the opposite, those dry climates we have that turn into wet ones, so we have one complete change of situation on our planet. When we talk about the ozone layer, there's still a much, much better situation, you know that yourself, so the ozone hole on the South Pole that had its maximum in '88, '89. Sir, today almost doesn't exist, here's one of the few, but the bright examples of how mankind has managed to solve a radically harsh policy with one big environmental problem especially for the population in the southern half of Australia, for Latin America. Today, ozone holes are almost gone, or much smaller than they used to be. For those of you who don't know, it was caused by that tetrachloric hydrocarbon so-called hydrocarbon. Freeons that were the most in cooling devices, slightly less in deodorants, some kind of spray, are today substitute gases and this problem is solved. Now that we're talking about Croatia, I'd like it here, although it's not the subject of direct law, but I'd like it to be mentioned a little bit, so I'm going to ask the question. Since here is the position and world policy, we heard yesterday in New York that ecology is very important and needs to be increasingly focused on the Croatian public, why does the Croatian state no longer invest in renewable energy sources? I mean here primarily in the sun's energy. In particular, let's start with solar energy, so only this year have some shy subsidies started, until this year the subsidies were not or were not possible to build your own solar power plant and sell electricity to HEP. If you're into that little, small number and then it's like you've got the lottery. Today, something a little bit moved, but still shy. I think it should be a strategic decision of the Croatian state, of your ministry, that through promotion, through promotion, through education, Croatian citizens are stimulated to place their own solar power plant on their own house because it is not technologically impossible today. These are investments, let's say 10 thousand kuna per kilowatt, so for 30, 50, 60 thousand kuna all Croatian households can be energy independent and this is very important and ecological. Second thing, we're talking about subsidizing electric cars. We're at the beginning of the world, at the beginning. There is no state in Europe that has fewer electric cars than Croatia. So, you have to do it urgently on the charger system. I don't know what methods, the method of subsidies, so people if they have an electric car or would like to buy it can't buy it because they don't have where to fill that car. I don't even know if there is a place on the A1 highway from Split to Zagreb where you can charge an electric car. I don't know. I don't think so. I'm regularly on that highway, I've never seen that there's a spot on that highway and it's a quiet anger. Until, for example. Elon Musk, a Tesla factory produces nearly 400,000 electric cars annually, the Chinese have tens of millions. We don't have a single charger on the most important railway cookhouse in Croatia. How can we expect anyone to come to us with an electric car or that Croats will buy electric cars. So you simply don't work in that field. Furthermore, I'm going to point out here one problem that I've talked about before, and I'm going to say it again, even though I know that given the time I'm talking, not a lot of people will hear what I've said, but here I have to say that my soul is in place. So in Croatia today we have very many wind parks, wind power plants and unfortunately I have to admit that it is one, I am glad that we have them not now I am against it, but this part of this contract that Croatia has with wind generators is little by my name from my lay corner, very unfavourable for the citizens of Croatia. In Croatian air, in the Croatian country you sell electricity to Croatians, and you give a rabbit here and there, some misery into the budget of local and regional self-government. It's about 1%, I've even pulled those numbers out of my time, and here you know it's about extremely small, ridiculous amounts. On the contrary, there is no possibility that any of us as private has a house anywhere, has the possibility of setting up a small wind power plant. That's not allowed, to put myself on my own house or someone on my house a little wind power plant, why isn't that possible? Is it a matter of aesthetic reasons? Well, these plants aren't exactly 70,80, 100, 150 meters of a pleasant eye either. So if I can call the world capitalists, so that big capital multinational companies come to Croatia and make money here and mutilate the Croatian landscape, okay give us the electricity we pay, why can't the inhabitants of Croatia have wind power plants on their houses? So let me tell you briefly, I would like to hear from you that here with precise figures, given that the topic is very relevant, you say the state of the environment, nature in Croatia, to tell the public what it is about the ozone that people know. As for concrete proposals, stimulating the sale of electric cars through subsidies, through charging stations, stimulating solar power plants on the roofs of Croatian houses, so that Croatian households are self-sufficient and ultimately wind power plants that privates can ultimately have them because this all makes no sense. If it's just a rotten gran to pass her day, then we've reached our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149395	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149396	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I warmly welcome you all. We have two legislative proposals on which a united debate is being held, which is ultimately not my idea of coincidence, because the Air Protection Act stems from this second Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Layer. Therefore, given the specificity of the area of air protection, climate change and the protection of the ozone layer, and the arrangements of EU legislation which clearly distinguishes air protection from climate change and the protection of the ozone layer from many directives, regulations and decisions, the existing legislative framework should be amended by separating these two thematic units. The Law on Climate Change and Ozone Protection sets out the responsibilities and responsibilities for climate change, adaptation to climate change and protection of the ozone layer, documents on climate change and protection of the ozone layer, greenhouse gas emissions, monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, the system of greenhouse gas emissions trading, sectors outside the system of greenhouse gas emissions trading, the Union register, substances that damage the ozone layer, fluorinated greenhouse gases, financing climate change mitigation, adaptation to climate change and protection of the ozone layer, information system, administrative and inspection supervision. This is briefly what this first Law on Climate Change and the protection of the ozone layer wants to regulate in this law. Surely in his articles that he has over 130 very clearly determines many things from that area, and that is good, as we have heard from my predecessors who have spoken here, beginning with the Secretary of State, I think that no one has ever had any objections to this law, as well as to this next Air Protection Act, and it is good that the Republic of Croatia has made its legal proposals more detailed on this issue because it is not just our problem. On the contrary, we are just a small fraction of this world, a country that can affect climate, unfortunately or fortunately very little, there are great players who influence it much more and who can influence climate change by their own actions, industries and all others and, unfortunately, have influenced the past very much and hope that this impact on the climate as we know it will be as small as possible, and in order to do so we must have appropriate legal acts, both as a small country and the largest state of the world. So here I am taking this opportunity to welcome Russia's accession to the Paris Agreement, a very important document that determines the future of the climate world. Russia as a very large country, an industrial power which in many ways affects the environment and climate, by joining and I hope by keeping the rules set out in the Paris Agreement can greatly contribute to making climate change as little as possible and to stopping this one negative trend and the direction in which climate change is taking place, at least to stop them at this level at which they are now, and in the future to climate change and to improve, or to make these air emissions as little less or less negative air emissions. But to achieve that, it takes much, much more effort. I will also say a few words about the Air Protection Act, so this law defines air protection as one of the components of the environment more clearly, further removing the perceived ambiguities in the area of the application of the existing law and allowing for simpler and more effective application of air-related legal and sublegal acts. Positive changes are introduced in the light of improvements in the legal framework, i.e. the corrections of certain shortcomings observed in the application of the law and the simplification of its application. Surely also in this law, I will talk about the laws, these two laws, generally because I say and they now come from one law, the Air Protection Act, they're written with a really good intention and I think they've hit very well what we'd all like in our homeland of the Republic of Croatia, but also in a wider environment because I'm simply repeating that we can't have a lot of impact on the climate ourselves unless it's affected by the most important factors in the world, and these are the largest economies that create the largest number of harmful emissions that are being released into the air. I'll say that two or three words about how I look at it. So, governments, statesmen, can write excellent laws, if from small people and children are not educated at home, so in kindergarten, school, important things about the need to protect the environment in which we live, that we can't start with waste management and the release of harmful emissions and everything else, in vain all the effort and all the laws, we won't achieve much, and we can do much, I mean from education, then respect these legal regulations that we make, because only in this way can we contribute to the fact that the climate remains for us, but especially for future generations such that we can live on this planet, in this country, but also enjoy living in this country, at least living the way that today's generation lives, and that I don't say that those generations before us may have lived and more quality than we do today, even though we have much greater material goods. And here I come to what's most important in all of this, this race for a more comfortable life, by creating material goods, to have the need to have no idea how many electronic devices, that we have 2-3 cars, to drive, that air traffic in a huge expansion, all of this results in an increased impact on climate and air and environment pollution. Whether we're willing to give up at least part of it, because if we're not ready, we're not going to have much influence on the climate and the environment. Here someone mentioned rail traffic, so it is certain that railway traffic should be encouraged, and this government, as far as I know, makes a maximum in that direction, here is a recently opened tender for a 400 million kuna project to build a second railway line from the Crosses across Koprivnica to the Hungarian border. The construction of the second track from Križevci to Dugi Sela is also under way, meaning connecting with Zagreb, and projects are being announced for modernising the railway line from Zagreb to Vinkovci, i.e. the east of our country, and we also know that the Zagreb-Rijeka railway line is one of the priorities in our strategic plans and I expect that when the investor is found and for this direction that will start working intensively, one change should certainly be made in the way people behave and think about road traffic, while it is very intense and road congestion is large, and also very polluting the environment. It is certain that rail transport, which is not clear to the end, is clear, as far as environmental pollution is concerned, but it is much more acceptable in that part. I was already talking about air traffic, we're used to such trips today, so the shorter the faster we get to a specific destination, but we also need to know that air pollution is as big as in maritime traffic. This law provides for climate change, environmental protection of the same Air Protection Act and financial instruments that would achieve the objectives set by law. I hope that these funds will be sufficient and that they will increase every year and that we could deliver to people simply what we would like to achieve by this law. Let me say a few words about the woods too, this is where the forest law was already mentioned. The woods are, as we know one of the main factors in carbon dioxide absorption and its procession into oxygen and let me say here, a few words, I don't think it is, that some things are simply not said about the Law of the Forests. It is said here, from this pay phone that the Law on Forests favours burning areas turning into building areas. It's just not true. To read the article. 46. The Law on the Forests and that it was read in which chapter it was spoken, which is part of the 6th Protection of the Forest, Art. In 46, it says that on the burned surfaces of forests and forest land, the purpose of 10 years of fire cannot be changed. That's exactly what you said, but it's just an additional protection element. Not a bargain. Because you have an art. 19 Laws of the Forests. Look, anyone can interpret the law, but that's how it's written and that's the intention of the law. So it's in art. The 19th Law is for forest owners, and this is for the private and the state as forest owners to resuscitate the burned-out areas within 2 years. Two years, I repeat. If that deadline has not been established by the forest-economic plan, the deadline may be shorter than 2 years in the forest-economic plan. And in St. 3 it can be given to the forest owner for another two years. So in two years, the forest surface has to be remedied, the one that's been burned. If this is a large area, if not possible within 2 years then it is possible to extend that period by 2 years. And there's the point. These 10 years have been put on purpose to turn away from what anyone here has been told to burn down the forest or forest land, the macaque, and then within a month or a year, to seek to repurpose such a surface into a building or something else. So 10 years is one reasonable deadline that should keep everyone away from any kind, because so far you have to know, that deadline wasn't at all. So it could have been theoretically what was said, that a certain area should be deliberately burned and that within six months. or I don't know, he's been asking for a year to re-route that surface into a building or some other area. So these 10 years and art. 46th, I repeat, in Chapter 6, forest protection was deliberately placed as an additional fuse, but most importantly, art. 19 which says that the burned area must be forested within 2 years and I think it is well prescribed in the forest law and should not be afraid or misread this article. 46th Law. The forests are just one part of which Croatia can be proud because 47% of Croatia's surface is located under forests or forest surfaces, we have to make it very clear because not everything is not everything, not everything under forests, especially economically valuable forests, but all of them are areas that should be preserved in this purpose, in which they are not all, not all of them surfaces, however, more than half of them are not to say management to them is not economically viable. And we need to know that. It is not because we have nearly a million hectares of forest land where there are different degraded forest forms or bare pastures and it is certain that anyone who manages this area does not have any particular economic viability in it, and has certain obligations precisely on the matter, first of all, protection from fire, the making of averages and others, where it is clear, constantly objecting that it is not working enough, but still, when we see the recent years of happiness there is a fire, but there are much less and much faster soaring, unless it is a very natural wind factor, it may take a little longer, but in general, the forest fire is precisely thanks to the procedures on such surfaces, much earlier, but large, absolutely for all the forest surfaces to be preserved, that even those areas that are not in function of agriculture, to turn it into forest surfaces, because it is better to grow and to the forest and forest forests of this kind of wood that are not allowed to be of wood. Clearly, the same thing is to be careful not to go to extremes, as in Brazil to burn or cut down forests to create agricultural surfaces, though. Any agricultural area that can be used should be used in Croatia for food production, first of all, and only what is eventually given up for these or those reasons, to turn into a forest because the forest as I said at the beginning has its useful functions above all, means as one carbon dioxide sink that we see in the air too much and that it pollutes the atmosphere too much, and then gives other useful effects from wood material and everything else. Finally, I would like to say that I welcome the drafting of these two legislative proposals and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support these legislative proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149397	I thank my colleague, Felak. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149398	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I must say that these two laws, the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Cover and the Law on Air Protection are definitely necessary for Croatia, needed in Croatian legislation, and it is good to talk through these two laws about the need to react more quickly to climate change, because due to the enormous emissions of greenhouse gases, we see that the climate is changing and it is changing much faster and much stronger than we are, as the experts themselves have predicted, and it is sad to react only when the public pressure is being put on, or it is good that children have been organised to organise protests around the world and warn us that we are deciding on their lives and the future of our planet that we must react to something urgent. And in that context, these two laws are welcome. However, the fact is that we are slow to react and we are also late with the legislative framework, but we are also late with concrete reactions to climate change. For example, some countries have decided to set up immediately expert teams, provide funding for their work to immediately make recommendations to the population and to behave, but also concrete recommendations to the economy, agriculture and tourism, and to all those affected by economic change or climate change. That's why I asked in the introduction of the secretary of state how will Croatia be set up? We see that we are passing the law and only then will the expert team be appointed, inter-resorial, and only then will a strategy be adopted to adapt to climate change which is currently in public debate and only then will we react. It was my proposal, and therefore the question was raised that, in parallel to the Government, it was immediately proposed to establish this inter-minor body from the Ministry of Environment and Nature and the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, Tourism, Health, along with people from the university, the Institute means that science should include, of course, economy and agriculture only and to specify an action plan with the deadlines in charge and what is even more important to ensure the funds. It was done by Germany, they immediately defined one such expert team, they defined what their goals were and they defined by what measures they would do so with. Let us learn from the better, and then parallelly if we need to change the laws that might work. We decided on this second step, first law, then commission, then strategy, then plan, it is too slow and too short a reaction to what must be reflected in the overall life of the Republic of Croatia. We are small and we cannot have much impact on global global flows, but we can take care of ourselves as Germany does, because they also continue through these measures want a sustainable growth, they want the development of the economy, they want new jobs, and they want to protect the environment. They know exactly what economic branches they will invest in to protect the environment, but also to preserve jobs and the standard of their citizens. Are we doing this? Just with this law, no. It takes all this other stuff I said to go that way. Because here's an example of a parallel with the ministry and the state reacting to the economy. There was an expert meeting organised by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Podravka where they talk about climate change and how climate change will affect the future of agriculture by 2030, 2050, and warn experts from the event that the decline in production in agriculture will be between 3 and 10%. We already have a terrible drop in agricultural production due to other problems, inherited problems, but also problems in the implementation of laws currently in force in the Republic of Croatia, and as a result of climate change, a further decline in agricultural production is expected. This is primarily due to soil erosion, due to an increase in temperature, because of the drought possible and of course that the temperature increase will require a change in the seeding plan and planting of those crops that are more resistant to higher temperatures. It will happen to us because of climate change and some new pests are already happening, some new diseases, and it is certain that there should also be science and self-response ministries to react and prepare that only producers and consumers, or citizens, because we see that we also have some diseases from tropical areas that were not previously in our region, and that it is necessary that they react comprehensively and try to raise the level of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia to be sufficient in the production of food because we have, only we do not, because we see that the price growth of agricultural products is due to climate change, and it will happen to us that, first of all, that the countries that have production will calm their consumers, and we may happen to not have enough agricultural products on our market, that we will have no place to buy. It is also this, climate change will also significantly determine the economic growth and development of each country as well as Croatia. We must define which branches of the economy we will develop. From this set, it is also warned that RH 48% of its electricity gets from hydropower from the hydrocenter somewhere. Because of the drought there is a real danger of this hydropotential and we have a problem with not having enough electricity, and we have other sources of already mentioned suns, wind etc. biomass to target a part of agriculture and agricultural production to the production of biomass, we tap it in place, write some strategies, write a strategy for the development of agriculture, but nothing concrete on the ground is happening and simply allow most of the agricultural areas to grow in macaque, and it is isolated from the programme of availability to state agricultural land, that it remains in the management of Croatian forests even though it is not in the nature of the forest, that it remains with Croatian waters, although in nature it is not used to protect against the harmful effects of water. And when I mention protection from the harmful effects of water, then it should be said that Croatia's waters for 10, 15 years have a plan to build accumulations and retentions with which to prevent damage from the stream of the brooks and that it was built it would not have happened as it happened in Zagreb the other day that half of Zagreb was flooded or as it was this year in the spring that half of Cernik, Okucani and Stara Gradiška Municipality and that part would have been flooded by streams of brooks because there were no retentions of accumulations, and we have them in plans, we even have eu funds. And right in that part, we have the worst use of eu funds only 10% when it comes to water and water disposal. Of course I'll mention here again and the funds in the national budget of only 20 million kuna for compensation damage from the elementary disasters we've always pointed out and again we point out that it's too little. Interventionally, it rose to 100 million kuna and then our fellow citizens get 2,3,5% damages and then simply when they see what that is like, they don't report any more damage. I think that there must be a more serious government and resolute ministries to deal with this problem, to build those facilities that are necessary to protect against the harmful effects of water and to ensure that there will be less damage, and then there will be no need for these 20 million kunas for damages from natural disasters when it comes to floods and streams of flooders. Of course climate change will also affect tourism, especially due to the rise in temperatures and the melting of icy belts on the ground, and that sea level will grow, but not only will sea level rise, so it will endanger coastal areas, but due to the rise of temperatures, the streams will certainly be threatened, the streams of buics, and will certainly reduce the potential for the development of continental tourism. So also in this segment, this inter-resor group should give answers and recommendations to what to invest in and not build any facilities where tomorrow it will no longer be possible to perform and deal with tourism. And when it comes to the Air Quality Protection Act, we need that law. We are now monitoring the quality of air and the fact that in some cities, even in Zagreb and Rijeka, Sisak, Slavonski Brod we do not have first category air, we have no first category air throughout the year and that this is being established, but that nothing concrete is being done. And now we say by this law we go one step further, we lower our responsibilities and our jobs to the units of local self-government. The municipalities, the county cities must make action plans, must make a way to reduce air pollution in their area, but on the other hand we do not give tools. Because the fact is that only in the town of Slavonski Brod somewhere over 5,000 family households should change their energy, not to warm up wood anymore, but to move on to some more environmentally acceptable energy. They themselves can't handle it financially, the supplier of some other energy companies, of course, has its own conditions and prices. And there was a question of whether the state would then react to help citizens of Slavonski Brod to get some kind of preferential price or to get a grant of crossings from one energy to another. The answer has not come, let alone a concrete plan or a concrete reaction. And it's certain that the cities themselves through this action plan will not be able to condition some company, some company to change its energy to no longer go to the lube, the vine oil in one of its production processes, but will have to react from the state level. And it is good that there are these funds that you mentioned for modernisation and innovation, but it will have to include this particular inter-resor group that I mention and the competent ministries, make some projections, plans, prepare the application documentation for these funds, and attract those funds, because that's where all the EU Member States are going to bid. And if we are not quick and high-quality, we will be left without these resources, and we will not be able to have a more significant impact on the growth and development of our economy and on the change in energy direction and on the change to further reduce CO2 emissions or greenhouse gases into the air. So it takes one joint action, and it's not enough just to pass the law, action plans, but if they don't implement what then, and it won't be implemented if it's without money because it's all about money. And a big part of this air quality monitoring business and climate change itself is at the State Hydrometeorological Institute. Well, I've already talked about it, and I'm going to repeat that institution to strengthen both human and financial because it's obvious that they're not going to power much further with their capacities, and the experts are aware and we always believe their prognosis and I believe that they should invest in that institution. But I also want to call them in a certain way by agricultural producers because until the end, the Law on Defence against Fights is not implemented because they are involved with the Ministry of Agriculture because as long as the Law on Defence against Fights is in force, who can by his decision not put that drive in place to say so because the fact that most of this spring we didn't have through the implementation of the Law on Defence against Fight all launch stations were out of operation because they didn't have rockets. Why is that? For this one one should be held accountable because not even a public procurement for rockets was made but only supplies from previous years were used, which is certainly not good and the system cannot be effective if it does not work from all stations but segmentally where someone has decided politically. It can't stay that way and it has to be solved. And here is the conclusion, that we must, in a certain way, and we, as a state, engage in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, monitoring climate change and parallel to this law, here again I repeat the proposals, this inter-resor group is being established, giving them concrete deadlines and ensuring the means to implement the action plan that they are going to propose, because the very strategy for adapting climate change that is currently being made, will remain just paper that will stand somewhere in the drawer and niche benefits, and I don't think we can afford it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149399	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149400	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Croatian Government, talk about climate change, ozone layer, air protection, and not mentioning it right away at the beginning, at the beginning of the very important thing about how much our competent institutions care about environmental protection, air, ozone layer, here's the talk and the head of the agency, the HNS, which is essentially the head of the Environment Agency, the Environment Fund, which is also very important in this, we see how it works. So that's what he said, in this case it's out there, and I think it's visible that the minister's got a little bit of winding up like he didn't know what was going on. But he knew, he was informed, he was asked by his colleague, Grmoi, and the question 6-7 months ago, this is not a problem for the president, which is not answered within 30 days. Of course, you from the SDSS, too, fellow Horvat, are very quiet about it, but the important thing is that you are there, so you don't care about the environment at all, absolutely. I claim it confidently from my days as an activist that the Ministry of the Environment doesn't care about the environment, about the ozone, or about air protection. I claim it convincingly, and I can give countless examples. The first example, I can tell you how much interest you are in the environment is Biljana Donja, here I have assured you, secretary, I have assured the president of HS that the Croatian state will pay the damage because of the fact that it puts down dangerous waste, but they have found that they are putting down the cost of industrial waste, of course, and you are from the SDSS colleague Horvat right in the village where people of Serbian nationality are, and you are silently subdued to HDZ, important that you are in power and that you manipulate people of the Serbian national minority and have been put off the black hill, and everyone sees it when you go down the road of Zadar, a plum from Maslenica to Zadar on the live side. The European Commission has sued this in court, the European court has reached a verdict and the Republic of Croatia is guilty. Who's going to go to jail because the RH is going to pay for it? Well, of course, Miro Bulj is here, in HS is acting lame, he's like this, you're quiet, you're under the table doing what you do when this director of the agency, the director of the agency, harassing people around him, doing the show, of course a colleague from the HNS goes in wonder that you have to send a message, but that's why you as a part of the majority, it's a disaster. The environment, and the only environment we have, so the children in the fifth column will curse us for waste management, because of the Lečevica Waste Management Centre, you'll all be the source of this, Slaven Dobrović often tells us all the sources of drinking water in the debris with such projects harmful to the entire Republic that threatens both air and water and potential, then what are we talking about here? Why? Why do you work far from the cities of the Waste Management Centre? In order for someone to raise money again to the detriment of citizens, to collect transportation and, of course, to destroy our natural resources. Therefore, it is important that initiatives such as the water in the Constitution, which we have launched, not what the Prime Minister and the minister say are water but are as a resource in the Constitution. That it is located as a resource in the Constitution, but not as a fundamental human right, it is not in the Constitution. We must bring, if the Slovenians, the Law on the Protection of Breaks and the Law on the Protection of Drinking Rivers, the river from spring to mouth, if drinking water we must protect, we must protect our, so climate change, so of course there will be climate change. We have Peru and the Cetina River, now the most beautiful third lake in the world, between Dinara and Svila, a vast area, and there must be a Peruch thermal power plant, because the owner of this project is, of course, the husband of the foreign minister now who has been awarded to be the secretary of the Council of Europe, a harmful project, I repeat, harmful. The Perun thermal power plant was a chimney, just a chimney 109 m in that beauty, 109 m high, and a wide 9 m, 700 kg of exhaust gas, of which 2% CO2, that was not what you intended to do. Even here Minister Dalic attacked me, I remember these details, not called, nor, simply to stop projects, we don't stop projects, we have the sun, we have the Law of the Most Independent Solar Lists, we use energy to protect solar energy, not in a way that subsidises foreigners, but rather, let's subsidize the solar panels first to target the windows of our socially endangered families, which each year the state singles out billions of kunas, state and local self-government and regional insulation for heating, only that, that money annually to invest what we give to the poor families for microsolares to invest for solarists, believe me to solve the problem. However, it is not the interest of the ministry, who, I cannot understand that we are talking about something, and we are hitting the harmful projects all the time in our nature, continuously, systemically, systematically, systematically, there are so many wounds in the Republic, when I saw in the Plitvice Lakes there's a stream of sewers, when I see that black hill, when I see that Mariščina, that Mariščina will turn into my Lečevica in my Zagora that you want to do this to her. When I see.../incomprehensible/... caves along the state road along the highway that everything left on the road goes directly to the Jadro in the Pugopolj area, when I see caves of permoneous nature, they're forced to drill, but when I see slophole pits that the waste disposal is delaying, like, in the Municipality of Muć where there is a pit there is no end it simply connected it is proven, connected to the Adriatic and that there is a disposal of waste, it is a disaster and what a waste. So we're unsettled we're not just protecting you are being projects that I'm going to tell you an example during the Youth I think it was and then Branko Bačić, i'm telling me what's not here, it was meaning the mining of the salt rock it was in your exit from Sinj to the Croats or according to the miner, and then they're changing the material that to resuscitate the cost of the Long War, industrial cost and battles, just so you know how much police had to intervene when we were protesting that it wasn't delayed, and now it's proven on Black Hill that industrial cost was harmful. And we stopped it then, we saved the tributaries of the Cetina River from human health, but someone had to pick up the Youth's money, who knows. This is so, so the Ministry of the Environment is a source of corruption, it is proven now and with these funds that it means, the source we have to protect exclusively Croatian people, meaning the man in our space and exclusively protect the interests of Croatian citizens, but not as in the case of wind power plants, that Vrdoljak would know this coalition partner well, Mr Brkić would know this well, that this Vrdoljak at the last session of Milanovic's government passed the law through social measures, has passed the Law on subsidising renewable energy sources, i.e. More specifically, to say wind power plant. You know how much foreign investors milk each year? A billion and a half kuna from consumers, households, a billion and a half and a supplier another billion kuna, two and a half billion kuna. We could do that microsolare, but it's important that on top of Knin's vice president you see those micros, those wind power plants are hips, but there are no microsolars in the poor. Why? Because the poor must be addicted, it must be a monopoly, it has to be a monopoly, because if these poor people were to be provided with energy security, if you did, you would protect the environment, first of all protect the environment, there would be huge savings, and that family wouldn't be energy-dependent, and we're protecting the environment. We do everything the opposite, we do harmful projects, exclusively harmful projects to have a monopoly of certain people, means we would have a monopoly, and everyone else would be addicted. This Croatia does not deserve, Croatia has the largest number of sunny days, Croatia see Mediterranean other countries as much solar energy has the resources, microsollar every piece can be produced in Croatia, thus the sea is run throughout and construction and the whole story about it. However, you do not, persistently not, persist in favoring interests, damage to the environment, and.../incomprehensible/... is proof of how the Ministry of the Environment functions, i.e. As well as the agency, the agency is connected, structures, the SDSS coalition HDZ, here is Mr Horvat SDSS, HDZ Mr. Brkic and no one from the HNS. It's the only link between the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149401	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We have replicas. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149402	Dear colleague Bulj, the situation at the Environmental Protection Fund where we have a situation that the fund that should care about also means environmental protection for all projects that are going in this direction we also have a conflict of interest, we also have clientelism, we have reports of whistle whistles Mislav Kotarca. His reports, as well as the threats he received, were met on April 1st and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Coric, no one reacted until yesterday's Pressise, which was likely to prevent the damage and released the video itself. So, here now with their fingers in the jam are caught not only Dubravna Ponos means HNS, but also Minister Coric and Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149403	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149404	Of course that's evidence, and now it's all visible and we know everything and, of course, the minister knows because you've asked the question, and the prime minister knows that because it's about that, so it's a question addressed to the government that hasn't been answered in six months. So the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia which has the power, the Constitutional Court said, has the power of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament the power of law, so the law is broken because the representative of Grmoya did not get an answer to this question he asked. And it's a fact and not just there. However, as it works here in the assembly, you see how the majority works, Bandic served as he said about collecting chips until he became dangerous, until Friday the situation happened that there was no vote, and now he has to get out of the club, and now Plenkovic has to get out of the clearing, so now Bandic is no longer moving in collecting chips, now these chips must be left by Bandic for Plenkovic. That's what they do. They don't deal with the question that's the key question. which is a matter of corruption. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149405	My colleague Bulj, I would ask you nicely not to call MPs a coin because I don't think that's appropriate. I didn't give you my word, so as long as I speak you keep your mouth shut, fellow Bull. [[Intruder: I quoted Bandic Milan as your coalition partner and great friend.]] We move on to the next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149406	We've heard a lot about environmental protection in your presentations, and we need to know that we need to educate our children, we need to educate ourselves, we need to take a lot of steps to get to what we want. Europe did some things a long time ago. The basic thing we haven't done in Croatia yet is the railway that leads east. When we do that, we'll have 100 trucks less on the highways, we'll have a mass of goods that would go ecologically over those tracks, and I think that would be the basic thing, the basic thing that Croatia should do right now. The second thing, about corruption in ministries and others where it happens, of course, is that there are institutions that should be taken into account and certainly those who do not work under some rule and public procurement should be controlled. And I still think that this government is going in one good direction and that some of these things are being corrected, but it's all a process. We can't let any government handle this in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149407	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149408	Thank you very much. My colleague Misic, the only thing the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic does before I would have just said to the chairman if I hadn't said a token, it's not my invention that's Milan Bandic's invention that he has enough chips. The only fellow Mišic to be recycled here is the chips. The only thing the Prime Minister's doing, so he's recycling right now, you get it. But I didn't say chip, I never insult people, I'm just quoting to Mr. and you the Wrinkle who told me to shut up what's not appropriate. I'm not gonna shut up. I'm the only one keeping my mouth shut in front of God and you didn't even pick me up here, and I know it's not some big wish for you that I'm here. The only thing that's good at recycling, everything else is a disaster about the environment, everything. Interested above all interest, not human or the environment. Air protection, ozone protection has absolutely nothing to do with it. And the only thing that does quality work now is Plenkovic those chips, as Bandic said, he's recycling them now. Now I don't know if it can be recycled, how many times... I'd like to ask the secretary of the coin to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149409	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I'm glad to see you, but you're still my partner and friend, and we used to be coalition partners together, and I always talk about ex-partners the best. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149410	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. After these subtle remarks about former partners, coalitions, tokens, etc. who ran and some ran until they were even a branded chip, some of whom had already run and they were not even aware that they were chips before they became popular in public as a name, not by the sympathy of people, because those who betray their voters were elected to the Croatian Parliament to be against some politics and then in the Croatian Parliament they vote for it and still support it for 3.4 years as some here, of course they are not glad to see it. And on that side, there are some who don't even know what list they've gone in for how many parties they've changed. But let's put it aside now, they have a certain age, and these are the next elections, and in these elections they have nothing to ask for anymore. Here we are talking about two important laws and two important topics that Croatia must be struggling with, as I would say the whole world, but some topics are particularly bothering us because they haven't solved for years and have a direct negative impact on the health of our citizens. And we have to ask ourselves why we're passing these laws if we're not able to solve basic things like air pollution in Slavonski Brod. So that's what we've been talking about from the beginning, since the beginning of the term of office, laws have been proposed and I personally have proposed a law that would define to prevent one who pollutes the environment from supplying raw materials. In particular, it is a refinery in the BiH Ship, which puts our citizens at risk for years of health and pollution. This has been going on for over a decade and nothing is being solved. And now I'm asking a question here, where now is the president of the Republic of Croatia who, a year and a few days ago in Slavonski Brod, was visiting the citizens, explaining how he would agree on the sidelines with Russian politicians that he would solve the problem? Where is she now? I mean, I know that in America right now it doesn't matter, this is just an expression. Where's the solution? So why is there no solution, why is pollution still such that people have adverse consequences for their health? When are we gonna figure this out? I think it's going to have to change power to finally get rid of it because HDZ hasn't been able to solve it for four years, and they've promised to do it. The big words were, and the small ones were works. Or we don't have to. I've come from these extreme examples now, but we don't have to go that far. Go to Zagreb practically in the center of the town of Jakushevac or Pestenica to see how many critical places there are delaying things and then there happens a fire like two, three months ago and a whole part of the city is covered with smoke and dangerous particles because as they misstate from the City administration of Zagreb to delay there just says waste is a bit bulky, there is no hazardous waste, but only furniture or certain things that can not be delayed regularly but must be collected and then placed in a recycling yard. The smoke would not be as it is, or such measurements would not be, what they are, if there were nothing to be controlled and done all together in one proper way We can pass any law, we can make the best ideas, but in practice our citizens do not have that kind of protection and have no certainty that the quality of air is in the City of Zagreb, but also in some parts of the Republic of Croatia, I said where is the most critical situation, it is about Slavonski Brod, that air quality is that they can be sure that there will be no adverse impacts and adverse consequences to their health. And when we start to solve these issues, and when we decide to react energetically, not in a way that does things themselves, then the citizens will feel like we're taking care of them. As for the global situation and position of the Republic of Croatia, I agree with colleagues and colleagues who have said that the Republic of Croatia must be more active and I am sorry that some other countries have even a leadership role, although they are not much bigger than the Republic of Croatia in this regard and show their example of how it should relate to the environment because the Republic of Croatia will probably be if the level of pollution continues or the problems with the ozone and global warming, the Republic of Croatia will be very exposed to the changes that are practically ahead of us and for 20-30 years, of course, who could still be a witness of time will be able to see power in our cities on the Adriatic coast of the Adriatic, situations that are unimaginable today. So, maybe global warming leads to an increase in sea level half a metre, within such a short time period that we will only see what should be prevented today, and regardless of how much power the Republic has and influence on global policies, but it can be loud and I would like to say that we used some of the things that we had in the past period, let's say the president of ours when she was at the World Cup in football, when she was showing her emotions, cheering and sharing awards after the finals, so she could use that kind of attention to distract these topics and talking about them in various congregations and conventions, for example, here she is now talking about the example of Zlarina in the United Nations, but I'm sorry, there are no such examples in the Republic, Zlarin is a small island. So, the Croatian president can use his influence or the Croatian president to impose these topics as moral authority, as a person with space on the international stage can be fought for much more than mere appearance at certain events and painting or a possible struggle with Stipe Miocic in free combat training. So the RH can offer more here, the RH can be loud, it can be, because the country that will be very exposed to this whole process, and I think it's relevant because in the end we have only one country, one country, so that everyone should be interested and if it's devastated, the generations that come will have nowhere to live, so that everyone should be interested in saving the planet as much as possible and to promote technologies that don't pollute, that are sustainable, that will allow us to keep this quality of life and I would say we save our planet for future generations. Let's just say in the Republic of Croatia, I don't see anything systematically being done on different alternative transports of citizens, whether it's a network of trains, whether it's a stronger incentive to use electric cars and other bicycles, means there's no one in any city, and Zagreb should be a leader in making a step because in the City of Zagreb you don't have a high-quality bike ride or citizens would probably use it, especially now that the availability of these electric romobiles is large, you would use it more. So there's a lot of space and we can't just stay on the law, but we have to implement it and we have to be there pro-active. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149411	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. We've got a few replicas, a respected colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149412	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Maras, you have devoted part of your exposure to Slavonski Brod. Slavonski Brod is unfortunately an example of inaction, it is also an example that when it comes to air protection and climate change, that no country is surrounded by the Chinese wall as it was, but always the influence is seen over. There's a private investor polluter. The private investor who is a polluter is also a citizen of another country. The citizens of Slavonski Brod suffer daily, and there is the role of politics, there is the role of someone, so by his political action he sits at the table and talks. Our president when she was in Moscow, she could use it as an opportunity to talk because everything, so we can't have an impact on it and what we can just say is that that the citizens of Slavonski Brod are suffering from a foreign investor's bad air. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149413	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Taritash. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149414	Thank you very much. Absolutely, ma'am. The president also boasted that she talked at a conference, if I remember correctly, in Germany with the Russian Foreign Minister, but you were right, she had so many opportunities, she had the possibility of direct influence and contact probably with Russia's president at the World Cup in football, she could have done a lot more. Instead of hugging the stadium, it would have been much more useful if she had agreed, for example, that the investor modernised his refinery and that the air was no longer polluted or on the other hand, it would have been great if HDZ had supported the law that I proposed to the Croatian Parliament so that JANAF would not supply oil to the one that pollutes and poisons our fellow citizens, but neither. The president unfortunately went there just to hug and watch the game, this one on and to cheer, and the job put it on, which was her boss. bet on the side. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149415	Thank you, colleague Maras, it's interesting how you know what the president was talking about. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149416	A colleague Maras cares about the Ministry of Environment, these bill proposals that will not lead to the Air Protection Act, nor the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone but simply had at one point on a larger area of the Republic of Croatia an industrial fall, so we have some factories which is why we have meanings in some parts still preserved the environment, but fellow Maras foreign investors have thrown their paws on both our energy and our agricultural land that is clean and on our waters because they have privatised already numerous springs and simply everything that is ecologically preserved will be in the interest of foreign capital and gain. Absolutely nothing in the interest of man because the Ministry of Environment simply does not protect the environment, protects the rights of Croatian citizens, but simply protects stakeholders. that have a profit on our... [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149417	...my colleague Bulj. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149418	Thank you very much. Kolega Bulj, you are, if I remember your political activity and career well, you started on these topics right down in Sinj where you pointed to certain problems and you point to that day today, and what we can see, if we can't solve the problem that is under everyone's nose here in the city of Zagreb, go to Jakushevac for a while, go to Novi Zagreb and just breathe and see what it smells like and you will see and you will be able to assume the adverse consequences of the citizens who live there without even talking about Slavonski boat. So it's amazing to me that I'm the Minister of Environmental Protection, so I'd camp out there until the problem is solved, I'd camp there until the problem is solved, and our minister is thinking about who knows what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149419	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Pero Cosic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149420	Thank you. You spoke to your colleague Maras in your presentation on the town of Slavonski Brod and air pollution from the Bosnian Ship refinery. In fact, the most responsible for finding a final solution were the citizens of Slavonski Brod with their perseverance, put it on the interest of all to say in Croatia and around, so that the final solution was discussed in the assembly, was discussed in the government and the European parliamentarians were talking about it, and as far as the president himself was concerned, she did a lot for that solution by meeting the owner of the refinery means the Russian side and several times on this issue was in Slavonski Brod, and I think you may know that this year you do not know that the signed agreement under the circumstances and the president, an agreement that regulated the relationship meant for the gasification of the refinery and modernization of the refinery where these investors said that the refinery would continue to be modernised. and start working when it comes to European standards. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149421	I thank my colleague, Cosic. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149422	Thank you very much. Mr. Cosic, when you speak to HDZ it's usually a futur, we will, etc., so, but nothing is solved, I don't know, I don't know what the president has done since her visits, citizens' talks have nothing. Here's a colleague of yours, Agent Dragovan, who every time he comes back from Slavonski Brod, we talk about how much air is polluted there and how hard it is for citizens to live. And on that side, it's amazing, amazing that the ruling majority doesn't even dare to solve the problem. Just because the president was at 2, 3 there doesn't mean anything when people still have damage to their health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149423	Thank you. The next replica, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149424	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you have in your debate given some examples of what Croatia can do to improve the quality of air in Croatia. One of these things is tax policy, we, with the current tax policy, stimulate the import of old diesel cars, so we become a dump in Western Europe, and on the other hand detimise the purchase of new cars and this is a concrete example of what Croatia can do to improve the quality of air in the country, but also the safety of our citizens. So for a long time, we have been appealing to this government to cut taxes on new vehicles and to detimise old cars, over 10 years old. However, nothing is happening in this regard. So what you can't drive in Germany is driving in Croatia and polluting our air and people living there harder. Here's another example of what we in our country can do to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149425	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149426	Thank you very much. You have correctly noticed that Croatia has become a lager for old diesel cars that are no longer able to drive in Germany. Our people just hang out for a moment and get to a cheaper car five or more years old, and basically the damage that's generated is much bigger than we can all assume together. So on that side I don't see any action, so eventually even strange people look when they're wondering if there's any incentives from the ministry. Yeah, there was one contest this year, but it's all a drop in the sea. I don't know why we haven't used more EU funds to stimulate the transition of citizens to electric vehicles or power plants. So it's minimally used in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149427	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149428	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Maras, it is sad that here we are now going to enter the tenth year as we talk about the problem of air quality in Slavonski Brod and thank all citizens who, by their appeal, brought this topic here to the Assembly and to the public. And something happened, you know, we made measurement stations to measure the quality of the air, but unfortunately beyond that, it didn't just go down by measuring the constants Slavonski Brod has another air category. Now when it comes to these measurements, it's good for the secretary of state to hear it, four, five days a month, one of the devices is malfunctioning or repairing. The contract should immediately install a replacement device, however it does not seem to be so that in six months you have 30 days when a parameter is not measured. And now it's going to happen that the air in the ship will move into the first category, so it'll be clean and Mr. Plenkovic or the president will be able to boast here we've cleared the air in the boat's clean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149429	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149430	Thank you very much. Well, I think citizens know exactly how clean the air is or isn't clean and who did or didn't do and who was walking there or who wasn't walking. I think I believe a lot more in people who live there than in measured indicators, especially this when you say it's not constant and it's not the same quality. And on the other hand, I trust the mayor who's trying in every way possible to fight for his city, but obviously he can't because he doesn't have that kind of political support since he's not HDZ. So the citizens are telling us enough and every time someone comes from there, you hear only negative things. No one said the situation was okay and that it was cleared up and that there was no more problem. Unfortunately, quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149431	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished colleague Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149432	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates. I'll continue my debate about where I'm in the debate and on behalf of the club I stopped. We have before us two laws that are correct, which, in fact, when you read them and you see that we will satisfy all the issues that are open in the EU, we will take over all the directives, we will measure it, write it down, record it, and there is the story stopped. Those countries that do not recognise in time that they should actively deal with all possible measures and respond to climate change and adapt will remain at the bottom. At this point, 28 EU member states, if it is true, will be 27, but when some things will count Croatia if it does not move, it will remain at the bottom. But everyone has to go, citizens have to go, individuals have to go, the private sector has to go, the public sector has to go, municipalities, cities and states have to go. At this point there is a big debate which I must always admit is somehow watching what is happening in Germany and I will never forget when Mrs. Merkel was at a meeting where the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were there in 2014, in 2015 she turned around and said, you from Croatia what you made us not to take your work is we all worth taking is we going to pay more? What policy do you have to keep your workforce in Croatia? No one knew the answer. But perhaps at another meeting in ten or fifteen years, another Mrs. Merkel will ask someone else, you from Croatia what kind of policy you have and what you have done on the topic of adaptation to climate change. We've adapted, and we've got some other industry and some other business. One very simple example, I ask you all together when you go shopping as much as you do when you buy a plastic bag, and how much do you have in your bag somewhere in a canvas bag or someone else you buy in? In Germany, it is debated that they will be banned in the malls of nylon bags and more and more. The debate was also in Croatia. I immediately saw in Croatia one answer that in Croatia we will not ban it because people do the production of nylon bags and if we prohibit what they will do. Well, in time, we need to see what other jobs they can do because I'm sure we'll do it for the simple reason, too, which is something that's really a big damage to nature and the environment are nylon bags and everything. So you don't have to have too much experience to say it all together. But politics and some decisions must be now. We have some decisions for some new occupations to make now. Climate change is a fact, I say it every time it's facts and everyone thinks it except Mr. Trump who has this comedy to say neatly there's no climate change. But climate change is a fact, the fight against climate change the adaptations of certain countries must be at this point because in 15 or 20 years, some other countries will go further, and we may still have inspectors who will punish because someone is packing at the malls in nylon. That's not the point. The point is to answer now. The point is, through all those subsidies that you can encourage, some other business, some other stuff. Nature will adapt if some other products will succeed better. When it comes to the woods there in '68. When you take the cards of the Republic of Croatia, the main part of Slavonia has been processed, I've been working with these cards because I needed them. When you compare '68. And when you compare the cards we did in 2011, about 1/3 of Slavonia was no longer processed, from what it was then, but some kind of foresters and some other story. Nature adapts and responds to it all together. I must say, I found it very interesting to listen to some debates, but when it comes to forests, we've always had in the forest law that forest and forest land can't be built. That's why they agreed on spatial plans. It's the first time we've had that in 10 years. forest and forest land may be redeployed. Those who, therefore, have the opportunity to see what is happening through the spatial planning system, have the opportunity to see that things are happening. When it comes to climate change, when it comes to air protection, everything we measure, we do for something, we don't do for someone to measure on devices, we do for something. And when you watch countries prepare for climate change and prepare and respond, then one of the elements is spatial planning. The spatial planning is a huge instrument that you can have and if you measure the air in the city center and you see that it is continuously bad for you, then you can't through the spatial plan say that the city center will get new public garages, but you say that the city center we'll free from traffic. And now I come to the example of the City of Zagreb which is closest to me and the most handsome and it is the most picturesque, we will have the Law on Climate Change, all will declare that it is us together who, who cities, we fight, we want to be environmentally conscious cities and cities that are like this, and then in the City of Zagreb, you have the following, that a green surface, that there is a city in the city, no one knows what the city is in town, and no one knows what Manhattan is going to be, but we will neatly redeploy the Hippodrom, there's this green surface in some new, new purpose. In downtown, we'll bring public garages to the lower city, and then only these air quality-quality devices will measure that there's worse air quality and not a few people left living in the lower city to live somewhere else, how the mayor has this, when he once said it, so those who can't, let them live somewhere else, live where they need to live. And we see that, therefore, one of the elements of the fight against climate change is spatial planning. I didn't ask what I asked the secretary of state, when spatial plans come to agree and come, then we should also look at some elements related to the topic of climate change that we have in spatial plans. When you come to the opinion of some other laws that are outside, come all, all the resolutions come all the laws, pay attention not to turning out that on the one hand we really advocate the fight against climate change, we talk about directives, and the other laws we have absolutely the opposite. So these are elements that we can already do, we don't need some big things, we can react and do it now, but we also need some things at the state policy level, without that there won't be a shift, without that there won't be some things changing. State policy can regulate a certain tax policy that stimulates certain things, you can see it in what the Republic of Croatia is good at, so when you have to ask yourself what kind of country it is in 2050, what people are going to do, what they're going to do, so the answer is not going to go, so what they're doing here is going to work in some Irish or some other country. These are some new jobs, these are some new stories, and stories are about clean energy, they're about clean industry, they're about energy efficiency in construction, it's about the production of A3+ devices, I'm sure it's a matter of time before it's going to be 4+. So you have to encourage people with certain elements that people really have reasons to live like that and that they understand what I'm talking about, people always understand on their own wallet. If you buy a device that is environmentally acceptable than one that is not, you will buy one that is environmentally acceptable, but there is the role of the state. Therefore, to pass the law, to have the law, to install in it all EU directives, in fact, but then we come to what cancer wounds are completely us all, implementing, implementing us, not doing what we need to do. The states are now adapting, I'm not talking about the railroad for the simple reason that the planes are, they can go to what they're going to, but the railroad can be adjusted. And there's another topic that's very interesting, but for some other time, ships that come to the Adriatic Sea, the Adriatic Sea versus the sea of the world is a bay, a bay where ships come in, and that's the next topic we might be reading about in another reading. A little more talk. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder:...respected colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149433	We have a replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149434	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Dark Taritash, you have spoken and said all those who do not adapt in time will have problems in the future. We don't have a problem in the future, we have problems now, I'll just talk about the harmful impact of our rivers on the lives of citizens, rivers that blue hundreds of cities and settlements. Slovenians, we always say, are Slovenians, they're nothing but God knows what, but here's the Slovenians regulated their river Sava almost all the way to the border with the Republic of Croatia, and then the Sava River enters the Republic of Croatia and then the blue places, endangers the City of Zagreb, and we haven't planned for tens of years and we haven't done anything. Moreover, we abolished, or no more, the company that cared, should have cared about the construction of the hydrocenter and the protection of our coast, we abolished it, and the Government of Zoran Milanovic was in 2011. She just set up a company so we can regulate and plan our future against the harmful influence of the Sava River.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149435	Thank you. My colleague Taritash's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149436	Thank you very much. So when I was discussing, I was talking about a future, and now you have to bring some kind of policy as soon as people deal with new occupations that are in the future, but really the result of climate change we see now, the consequence of the inaction we see now. When it comes to climate change and does not stop, the limit is not dull, so the result of what is done in Slovenia we see and we need to answer that. And when it comes to the abolition of agencies, when it comes to the termination of the institute, it's done, you know, someone ordered that 53 or 58 be abolished I forgot the exact number and it was abolished. It's the easiest thing to treat people like potatoes, and people aren't potatoes, and the consequences of the wrong decision, the wrong ones actually don't like to see it, nature doesn't forgive.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149437	Thank you. Good afternoon. Now final on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of fellow Members Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149438	Thank you very much. The representatives of the ministry, as I have said, are well written in the Republic of Croatia in particular regarding air protection, environment, ozone, everything that is not listed, but in reality is not applied, and therefore I express great dissatisfaction not only with regard to these large things that has been listed and by colleagues from Slavonski Brod of Air polluted and other parts, but also with the problems that people from the field face, where our environment is not protected, but also with respect to air, and that is also with regard to investments in the Republic of Croatia where we see that exclusively, which come to us, we will again return to the attempt of a harmful thermopower plant on the river Perci, which would endanger this area of drinking water, and also the environment itself, because they would have energy from chimneys that would be 110 metres wide, 9 large, 700 kg of exhaust gas, which was directly obtained from the Council, while the Government of Europe was directly from the Government, and the Government of the Government of the Republic of Europe. It is a private project, but we have this solution that we have given the law that sent MOST to independent club lists, about microsolars where we would solve the independence of socially endangered families, energy independence. Only this money that MOST for heating would save us a year would we use the sun as if we were saving both the ozone layer and to protect the meaning of ours, our environment, but harmful projects are much more profitable to stakeholders who throw their paws at everything in the Republic of Croatia, of course because through the Ministry of Environment I repeat once again the case of the Ponoš which is related to the environment we see which today happened simply to function corruptly against the interests of both man and the environment. In particular, we need to list harmful projects such as the Centre for Waste Management, the example of Lečevica, which will be seen by Mariščina, the Lečevica that lies in the junk, so we need our legislation under urgent means no water, the Constitution as to what the Minister of the Environment says that the waters are in the Constitution, that the waters are in the Constitution but as a resource, but they are not as basic human rights. Now, that's the problem, what you're saying is that the waters of the forest that we have to protect are the same for environmental reasons, so here's the problem in the Zadar hinterland when we're only talking about the Black Hill Hill hill that I mentioned when I was bringing here, I've been pointing out other people, citizens' initiatives have been pointing out for years, and the same thing was the problem while I was still an activist on the Cetina River where they were deposited in the mines, industrial waste was being put off so is the problem of the Black Hill. That's why Mr. Horvat is a place where people of the Serb national minority lived, people who are poor and who do not now have drinking water. Here you are a representative of the Serb national minority, I've been up to 10 times and recently I've been still Black Hill Mr. Horvat standing in that position. These people are mostly older populations, but I repeat, the Serb national minority who have a hard time living have literally no drinking water or clean air because of that Black Mountain. When I warned you here, your minister, I also warned Mr. Jandrokovic's chairman there was a laugh when I brought it in a black box. However, the fact that the European Commission has given it to the European Court, the European Court of Justice has reached a verdict where it will punish the Republic of Croatia because it is carcinogenic and toxic, it stands among our people, you do not react. It is not only the Ministry of Environment that protects the environment, but also protects harmful projects from Slavonski Brod to my Peru, to the Black Mountains and many other critical points mainly in the karst area where we have various pits, where waste is thrown directly into the springs and pools of drinking water. Therefore, these laws can be the best but unfortunately you do not use them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149439	Thank you, fellow Bull, thank you, thank you. This concludes the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Air Protection, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 681. There's no, there's no replica, there's no replica. And on the Proposal for a Law on Climate Change and Ozone Protection, first reading, P.Z.E. number 682. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149440	Proposal for a Climate Change Act and protection of the ozone layer, first reading, P.Z.E. number 682. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the Proposal for a Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Layer and Others will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 114 for and 3 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149507	We continue with the following item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. the number 654 is proposed by the SDP Representatives Club on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Emergency Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. This item shall be entered in the agenda of the sitting in accordance with Article 228(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you go, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149508	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today we propose to supplement the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest does not have a provision which sets out the issue of exemption from the president and members of that body, and in May of this year we testified that the Croatian Prime Minister asked for an exemption no less than the chairman of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest for no good reason, and in panic fear of the commission's decision. I would like to remind you that it was the decision-making committee on the conflict of interest that decided on the involvement of Prime Minister Plenkovic in the Borg affair and Lex Agrokor. The same affair in which his first associate, his right hand and Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic, had to leave because of suspicion of corruption and money extraction. Obviously, the fear of investigating the entire case by the commission was so great that before Plenkovic, political pressure on that same commission was placed by another of his closest associates, his right-hand man in the government, his minister, former management minister and HDZ political secretary, who placed him at the post of HDZ political secretary Lovro Kuščević, who went so far as to announce a change in the authority of the commission and even called for the removal of the commission itself. But the peak of pressure and disrespect of institutions is actually coming from the Prime Minister himself who, on request of documents from the commission about the trip to Helsinki to so-called. Helsinki’s affair corresponds with the quote “We have drawn everything for them, and we will deliver nothing else to them. ” It is more than clear to everyone in Croatia that Plenkovic's associates took a private trip on a government plane at the expense of our country's citizens. And actually my question is what kind of message does the Prime Minister send to citizens when he does not respect the institutions of his own country? In this way, it directly encourages the creation of chaos in Croatia. And finally, what kind of message does the EU send before taking over the presidency from Croatia, as I will remind you that the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest has been a condition for Croatia to join the EU itself. The collapse of institutions by the Prime Minister and his associates is evidence that the country's chaos has also broken down. This adds to the fact that Croatia is sinking across all indices, according to the index of freedom of the media Croatia has been falling for the third year in a row just as it is on the global index of the rule of law as well as on the human rights index. According to the 2018 Corruption Perception Index, Croatia continued a negative trend, resulting from 48 points which is significantly lower than the average of Western Europe and the EU average of 66 points and shows that corruption in the public sector in Croatia is more widespread than ever and that Croatia is in the society of the most corrupt countries within the EU. This negative trend compared to 2017 and 2016 when we achieved the result of 49 points was continued, and I will remind you that 51 points were reached right in 2015. It is clear to all of us that Croatia is devouring corruption and should not look so far as to see that this summer is exactly half of the Croatian government, Plenkovic's government had to go on account of a deep suspicion of corruption and people simply cannot bear this injustice anymore, I cannot look at this chaos that is overrun almost all the spheres of our society and that is one of the reasons why they are mass evicting from our country. And instead of ruling to solve the problems of poverty, small wages and pensions, unemployment ruled on one targeted and planned tactics on the one hand of creating chaos, and on the other hand encouraging nationalism to cover up all impotence, all incompetence and all ignorance in solving the key problems of Croatian citizens. And that is why our position in the SDP is to strengthen the independence of the country's institutions, to strengthen the independence of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest and to extend its powers. If, in order to resolve the issue of exceptions, we suggest that it is strictly defined that the High Administrative Court decides to do so. These changes to the law in the future would reduce the possibility of political pressure on the commission that we are witnessing right now by this government. And that is why I invite you in the interest of reason to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149509	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's his first colleague, Vučetic. Here you go, colleague Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149510	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. I agree with my colleague, and I will support this proposal of yours because it guarantees the independence of this body, but it still does not fully guarantee itself. Because if we are talking about the body being independent then the decision should not, however, be left to the High Court of Justice but only the commission within itself as a commission that has a strong ethical or valuable dimension and deals with conflict of interest and for the sake of value, but also because of the logic of things, because conflict is an interest exclusively in their authority, not in the jurisdiction of any court, should decide within itself whether a member is required to exclude or not. So, I support your proposal is the direction and the path to combating political corruption, but I do warn that this proposal also violates the independence of this body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149511	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149512	Dear colleague Vučetić, first of all, thank you for your support. This proposal to supplement a law that simply strengthens the role of the Commission itself to decide on a conflict of interest. What is the case so far is that the Commission's decision can be initiated through the Administrative Court, and in this way we will include that body in the whole process and ensure that there is actually additional independence, and when you have just warned about the problem of the Administrative Court, then you have warned of major problems that unfortunately occur and exist in the Croatian judiciary, which we are almost daily, like all Croatian citizens, which is why we are extremely concerned and this is one of the topics that will definitely dominate the next period that is ahead of us, how to solve the problems that are accumulated in the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149513	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149514	Thank you very much. After the current morning and evading the response by the prime minister why he did not deliver to the Commission for the resolution of conflicts of interest of documents required in the legal process, it seems to me that this is the only logical move that responsible political parties and MPs in this House can make, to try to show through legal changes to the prime minister that he is not above the law and that he will be punished, if he cannot already be punished politically, at least he will be fined, is that if this change is adopted, then this behavior will no longer be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149515	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149516	In his reply, the Prime Minister replied the regulations are equally valid for all, so they are also valid for the Prime Minister, not a single Croatian official should be above the law, including the Prime Minister. This political pressure that came from the prime minister and his closest associates directly on his orders is totally unacceptable and puts and raises great doubt about the construction of independent institutions and therefore our task today through these amendments, through this addition of the law, is to ensure, as you well said, that the Prime Minister cannot be above the law, that he cannot be placed above the law, that he must respect the decisions and institutions of his country which he has not respected so far. In this way, by disrespecting the institutions of his country, by destroying the dignity of this commission, he has just sent a message to the citizens, do not respect them, either, and something that is totally unacceptable in a democratic and normal country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149517	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, I am opening the debate, the first reported on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of counterparts Nikola Grmoy, please welcome your colleague, Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149518	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so we will support this proposal from the opposition colleagues because we believe that in some situations it will speed up the resolution of certain issues that have arisen on the very meaning of jurisdiction and everything that has been the subject of the last months, but I am also calling on all colleagues from the opposition at this time, and I am giving as one offer for the next month that in the parliamentary procedure, it is already in the parliamentary procedure, but that here for debate and voting we put the Law on the register of expenses of officials to which we would all of these situations that you, when you spoke about the trip to Finland, where the Government does not wish to deliver travel orders to the Commission or, for example. The case of Damir Sabelak diplomat, who revealed the illegal spending of money in our embassies, and to this day at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, means not to me as a representative, but to the Anti-Corruption Council of HS, does not wish to deliver these travel orders, to resolve the issue by law, that all the costs of politicians, officials who arise during the conduct of public duties, are publicly published in one place, means with specifications, with pdf. By scanning the accounts and everything else, so there will be no further doubts. I recall here that the government has rejected this law by calling on the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, which the Government itself refused to provide travel orders, it says how much hypocrisy of the rulings we will continue to be here I would say the most persistent anti-corruption force, we have seen what happened to Mr. Sabek, the official court has returned it to work, it is thanks primarily to my colleagues from MOST, then to all colleagues in the Anti-Corruption Council of HS headed by the president, and also to the second case of Mr. Kotarca who addressed me personally, I have referred to the parliamentary question of Minister Ćorić and Prime Minister Plenkovic in April of the month, and then we should not have responded to it, the Rules of Procedure of the HS, that I would have released this video of the Fund, which I have already sent the members of the Fund to the Fund, which I did not wish to be fully aware of the Court of the Court of Justice, and the Court of Justice, because of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Europeans of the Court of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union of the European Union of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of We're not just gonna settle for Mr. Ponos's resignation, so it's kind of just one man who's fit for the NHS. We want to investigate all irregularities in the Environmental Protection Fund itself, and I hope, as before, that the president of the Anti-Corruption Council has been open to all proposals that will be so in the future and as far as this case is concerned. So, the message is clear to Croatian citizens is a lot of corruption, they're tired of talking about fighting corruption, so they expect concrete proposals from us, I've now made a concrete proposal that is this Law on the Register or the Law on the Register of Costs of Politicians, and on Friday I will present a new law from our Anti-Corruption Pact. We can't talk about fighting corruption and clientism, and in it, in any way we can participate, approve of it, silence it, along with those who are corrupt, raise their hands. So this can no longer go away, and here I expect all of us here in the Croatian Parliament to show zero tolerance to corruption and simply free this society from these chains of corruption. This morning I said that this is a small country for major corruption, and I think that none of you and at least I hope that none of you colleagues here want to be that way, so that in that sense we can no longer deny or reject any reasonable proposal just because it comes from the opposition or because it may not suit us at some point. I hope that this proposal that came from the SDP ranks will also be supported, and so will these proposals that will come to the debate. We see that it has become I would say, of course, with these economic, economic issues which are crucial, that I think this fight against corruption is the second most important issue and possibly what is the issue of the whole world, that the issue of Croatia is some kind of sustainable development, and that there are huge problems, that is, this fight against corruption and corruption itself is also related to this waste management and what is happening in this sector. So here, I believe that according to these subjects of the opposition, we will have high-quality proposals, and that by ruling these proposals we will have hearing. And here is once again support for this proposal, and I ask you to support this proposal for our policy cost register, which would be interesting, and it is also current in view of Finland and this Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to put this into debate next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149519	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the MPs' club. Debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Branko Bačić. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will firstly say that the HDZ Representatives' Club will not support such a bill because it is unnecessary and that in the existing legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia, it is clearly revealed who is responsible for the exemption and decision on the exemption of an individual member of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest, including the president himself. I would at first agree with my colleague Vučetic that this SDP proposal actually shows a deep mistrust with the members of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest. If someone in this country should have enough knowledge, knowledge of the conflict of interest decision, then that should be the commission. Because if the commission decides on a potential or real conflict of interest on a number of officials, over 1,000 officials if we include local officials who are obliged to deliver and act under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, then I do not see any reason why the Commission cannot decide on a request for the exemption of one of the 5 members because they are also in the sense of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of the State's Interest. Therefore, when that body is registered or when it only determines and decides on a conflict of interest procedure and we give it full faith because it is an independent state body, then I see no reason why this same body would not believe that it is own, that it is authorized however you wish to decide on a conflict of interest in a particular case of one of their members. So, this SDP proposal tells me that we do not trust you when you decide on a conflict of interest or whether a member of yours is in conflict of interest, and we in HDZ are not talking about this committee appointed by the Croatian Parliament is obliged, authorized to decide on all potential conflicts of interest in the Republic of Croatia, about all officials, but including you five who are sitting and deciding on the conflict of interest of all other state officials in the Republic. Thus, this points to a deep mistrust of an independent state body that is very often and very happy to be called upon. And since the first day of the HDZ Representatives Club argues the same thing, when any member in the Republic of Croatia who has the right under the law and I would never deny the right of that official who is in the process before the Commission, the party in the procedure has the right to request the exemption of any member of the commission because he considers that he is in a potential conflict of interest when he decides on that official there is in the Croatian legislation and in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and in the Regulation that he or she is the authority of that same commission to decide whether he or she is entitled or did not request the exemption of a member of that committee or of the President himself. That what we claim in HDZ is true, so far there has been a very large number of judges in Croatia, professor of the Faculty of Law in Croatia. I don't know why the SDP had not previously made contact with its member, the distinguished professor of the SDP yesterday, Mr. Josip Kregar, who said, said there was no need to change the law, so I'm saying what a SDP member is saying. The esteemed professor at the Faculty of Law said he had no need to amend the law, the existing law imposes a collective body such as the commission on an independent state body to decide only on request if the party's official is in the process to request the exemption of any member. And now calling or citing the SDP to speed up this bill's process is absolutely opposite. This bill slows down respected colleagues and colleagues in the process of preventing the establishment of a potential and real conflict of interest. Why? Because this law of yours requires a meeting, something to be concluded, then if an official submits a request to refer it to the High Administrative Court. And we argue not, but when the commission first met and there came to it a possible request for exemption immediately resolved. Don't ask anyone, you solve, you solve the commission, you determine whether the president is in this particular case you're calling for right now in conflict of interest. You're the owner, you decide, you have knowledge, you're actually an independent state body, you decide whether or not this official who's looking for an exemption is right. And when you decide not to inform the official at all, proceed with the procedure and decide in a measure whether this official is in conflict of interest or not. After that, if the official is unsatisfactory and possibly lodges a complaint about the solution, the courts in Croatia will decide. After that, when the commission only bases its powers, the knowledge it has decides in each individual case. I must say a little strangely that the commission cannot assess whether, at the request of an official or a party in the process, one of them in conflict of interest from the members of the commission, it is a little odd to me, so the gentlemen of the commission asked the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament is not only now but also in its term of office when the SDP acted in Croatia, by signing the President of the Assembly of Mr Joseph Leka, there is nothing the Parliament can decide on the exemption of the president of a particular committee or member of another independent state body such as HERA, HANFA, HANDA, the State Judicial Council, etc., etc. so then the same thing was done by the Committee on Selection and Designation and rightly said we are a political body and our working bodies are a political body. There in that political body, not by the power of the arguments but by the power of most members in that political body, it may be decided whether the official or the party is in the process when applying for an exemption is right or not, therefore neither is the Parliament. Then the chairman of the commission, after the parliament refused that we were not deciding, addressed the Administrative Court of Croatia. The administrative court of Croatia said no, neither are we in charge, and now the chairman of the commission is filing a complaint and will be decided by the Administrative Court. We have been arguing in HDZ since the first day, the commission and we trust him, and we trust him in every way, let him just decide whether he is an official by applying for the exemption of any member who is in that commission, the commission is to decide only to do so and then proceed with the procedure and resolve it afterwards. If we were right, it was once before that that respected colleagues and colleagues were appointed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. A similar situation was in 1996 when a judge, I will not name him, asked to exclude the President of the State Judicial Council because it is in conflict of interest when deciding whether he will become a judge or not. The State Judicial Council which, within the meaning of the law, is the same independent body as the Commission is a collective body as the commission then doubted whether they can decide on their member and was he and the President of the State Judicial Council whether or not he is in conflict of interest when deciding on that judge and asked for the Parliament's opinion. And then the Croatian Parliament and the County and the House of Representatives said no, is not the political body that decides whether it is a member of the State Judiciary Council or its president in conflict of interest, you choose to decide for yourself. The State Judicial Council still thinks they can't decide on that and ask the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court then said in its decision the State Judicial Council is an independent body in the Republic of Croatia, a collective body and let as a collective body decide whether their president is in conflict of interest when deciding on the choice of a single judge. Therefore, this practice in the Republic of Croatia already exists and there should be no problem. In this particular case, if the Croatian Parliament has reached out for the time being, the Constitutional Court has called and the Constitutional Court will wait for it to be announced by the High Administrative Court after that, at least as far as I know according to the President of the Commission, it will refer the request to the Constitutional Court. Well, let's wait for the Constitutional Court to decide. There, I think, should be short deadlines on whether, under the existing law, the commission should only decide on the exemption of its members. We claim that the question I heard today on the Committee on the Constitution, and what if the official asks for an exemption from both the president and all the members. Same thing. Just as the Commission will decide on one member, it will decide on all members of the commission whether they are all in conflict of interest when it comes to an individual official who states that the commission is in conflict of interest. Similarly, there are demands from individual Croatian citizens when they seek the protection of the Constitutional Court that some constitutional rights have been violated. They're asking for a single judge or president of the Constitutional Court to be exempt. There is no body above the Constitutional Court that could say and evaluate, nor is the Parliament nor anyone else about whether the individual judge of the Constitutional Court or the President of the Constitutional Court is in conflict of interest when deciding on the constitutional rights of a citizen in Croatia. The same Constitutional Court also decides whether a citizen is right when he determines that a single Constitutional Court judge is in conflict of interest when deciding on the right of citizens. So absolutely, it's absolutely not controversial. Therefore, here in this procedure we estimate that, unnecessarily in the Croatian public space, such a delay by the commission, a very simple one, many of which I say both constitutional and legal experts and teachers and judges have already said that this procedure is too simple for me to know, I do not understand what reasons for asking, the proposal of officials who are being questioned about the potential conflict of interest of the head of proceedings which decides whether his case is in conflict of interest or not. I don't know why such a name is created in Croatian society instead of the commission simply taking responsibility to decide what is best in Croatia knows that it does not decide on a particular procedure. You see, we were here in the Parliament when, when the mandate of the committee led by Dalia Oreskovic we argued and called for opposition to the quality of the work of Dalia Oreskovic. Dalia Oreskovic met with such a request once, however, a lower official, the mayor of a town in Croatia, who requested her exemption in the process. You were referring to Dalia Oreshkovic. Dalia Oreshkovic has decided. She didn't ask the Parliament either. She asked the Parliament, when the Parliament said it was not responsible she decided on her own on the commission whether or not she was in conflict of interest and continued with the case. And out of that, as far as I know, she had not created an affair in Croatian society, as an affair is now being created by imputing one party, so he was an official at the highest and lowest level, which, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act under which the same commission carried out the procedure, you can imagine he dared to use the legal option and tell Mrs. President of the Commission, I think you are in conflict of interest. No, he shouldn't say that, nor should I, as far as I'm aware, should he not have asked, because from that position he rudely violates integrity according to the SDP colleagues of that committee himself because he has dared to ask whether anyone is in conflict of interest or not. I mean, where my people came from, we should, when the public condemns someone immediately, prepare a pyre or guillotine, abolish the Croatian judiciary, burn that man or reflect his head, we don't need institutions, no commissions, no courts, no one. We'll do it when we say that someone is in conflict of interest and then he's in conflict of interest and almost what the facts say is worse by the facts. Let's be correct, let's let that commission work, they don't need a tutor to determine which one of them is in conflict of interest, or let's not set it up in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149521	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. And now, in accordance with Article 248, I am asking the representative of the Club of the Independent Lists to state the reasons why he is looking for a break. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149522	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club of the independent lists of ten minutes. This is, of course, very important, amendments to the law, where we decide on a very important institution, i.e. an institution which is mainly founded and founded and which is tasked with fighting corruption, nepotism, conflict of interest of officials. The fact is that there is too much pressure on the institution, mainly on the president. So let's remember the way he acted and former Minister Kuscevic who said they don't know what they're saying, what they're doing,... , that there will be a change of law, means continued pressure on that institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course it is necessary to bring, define certain things and on the exceptions proposed by colleagues from the SDP. And of course this body needs to be strengthened because this is imagined as an anti-corruption body to prevent nepotism and corruption. But when it comes to the prime minister and his journey, then it is a body without sin. Either President of Parliament or I don't know who went, I don't know if Bacic was a colleague. All those who went to Helsinki, if they're looking for a commission, they can be delivered to them. If it's nepotism, I don't know how many of my words he's called the Prime Minister on the road so far and who has changed everything I've just said that he named a close member in the Biokovo National Park. I asked if it was a conflict of interest, I asked for it, the commission initiated the procedure but the prime minister never forgot it. Also, I appoint my sister to be prime minister, of course it is, to ask if there is a particular conflict of interest. But you want to have a paw over that commission that should prevent conflicts of interest i.e. An anti-corruption body. And that's why we need to stop at the protection of that body, only stop at the protection of that body to do its job and not to let the ruling have the possibility of pressure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149523	Thank you, thank you. Next stop of my colleague Marko Vučetić, please explain the break and after that, my colleague Bačić and colleague Batinić, the same topic, pause.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149524	Thank you, dear Vice President. On behalf of the club of many MPs, I demand a 10-minute break to warn the public of a source of conflict of interest. The conflict of interest arises for political reasons, when someone abuses his own position in order to benefit himself and to harm the public. However, we need to know that politicians and politicians define their own views within the parties, it is possible to talk about the conflict of interest that arises within a political group, as the political group is also concerned with interested persons or members of a political group, it is certainly not every time that it leads to public good but to the good of its political options. I think on this very road, for example this time in Helsinki, we see how this is defined, this conflict of interest that arises within the party frameworks. In addition, it was said that it might be possible to exclude a complete, complete commission. I don't know why the commission would have come to anyone's senses that the commission was falling under this Law on Psychological Activity. Well, it's not a conflict of interest to an insensitive soul of a politician who's never been exempt from making political decisions. Tell me when in this home a politician went away from making decisions, and we have, for example, a politician who took part in lex Agrokor, and then became the director of a company that was eligible for this law and did not opt out even though he knew that he would become director afterwards. And we have a lot of examples, and all examples come from a political environment, and that's why I'm asking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149525	Thank you. You've been granted a break. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am also seeking a 10-minute break to stress once again that the HDZ is seeking to strengthen the Commission's decision on conflict of interest by not accepting this law. By accepting such a bill, we do things the same commission with the disabled, we send a message that we do not believe that they know how to decide for themselves when the party or the official requests an exemption from one of their members they do not know, this law sends a message, but it should be decided by the body that is above them. We want to say that the following, that they are their own decision-makers, we give them full support that by the procedure when a member comes to the situation, they decide for themselves, we support them to do so without any political interference, without any other interference. Today the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly was also a session of the Committee on the Constitution, so here's what I want to tell you, you're a member of the Committee on the Constitution, you weren't there. and then gone I don't think he left when Professor Ivan Kopic I think he's still if something happened in the meantime, I apologize, boss, leader, first man of one of the important party, party bodies of the SDP. [[Intruder: Ohoho...]] He today removed such a law at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, arguing that it is unnecessary that the commission should only be decided. So, Professor Kopić, Professor Kregar, they said what HDZ is saying, and now if in the meantime there has been a discrepancy between the Faculty of Law and the SDP, I'm not getting into it, so I just want to say that what this law provides means is rude interference in the powers of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest and we in HDZ will not support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149527	Thank you. Here you go, pal Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149528	Thank you very much. So here I can only say on behalf of the HNS Club, reading the Proposal for a Law on Conflict of Interest, of course in Good Faith, we read, we studied the allegations in II. Chapter 1, paragraph 1, no provisions governing the issue of the exclusion of the president and members of that body, it simply does not stand, it simply does not stand. Because if the whole law is being read in order to improve, didn't the SDP colleagues read the items sufficiently? The second thing is an existing rule that is still in force, Article 24, which is just in its head saying "Deplication of work on the subject", says in what circumstances any member of the commission who has been brought into doubt that in a conflict of interest can be excluded. It's very clear. So I don't know, I'm saying we've been reading it in good faith and intending to improve exactly that certain dilemmas they have in the commission, to help them. Well, let's let this be if the members of the committee listen, let's make our contribution just to open page 10. Article 24, everything else is clearly written. And to my colleagues in the SDP as well if they do not have copies of this rule I will be very happy to give to my colleagues Bauk and my colleagues Bernardić who were on behalf of them, so that they can read, I believe that they should not be interpreted because it was clearly not intended to speed up the procedure, to improve but to open and keep on fire, or on a warm political topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149529	Thank you. We continue to work in no, no, we continue at 16 hours and 30 minutes. Thank you. [[It's 4:00. 18 o'clock.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:30 A.M.]] We will continue on behalf of the motionary, and you will have the intervention of your colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer to the presentation of the president of the HDZ Club on our law. What I have managed to understand, and I think I have understood it well because it repeats it many times, the reason for not accepting by the HDZ Club is because they think that in the existing law it is clearly stated that this should be decided only by the Commission. So that's why you're not accepting it. However, when it comes to a conclusion, they do not vote for what they say. I would say that if the chairman of the commission were to act on what the HDZ Club is thinking, and I see from the presentation of Mr Batinić and the HNS Club and other clubs of the ruling majority, she would violate the Law on Administrative Disputes and act contrary to the ruling of the Administrative Court in Zagreb in the case of Mrs. Martin Dalic, who according to his HDZ counterparts, was a motive for the Prime Minister to make a request for Ms. Novakovic. In that judgment, it states that the exemption is decided by the head of the second-degree body, and if such a body does not have a supervisory authority, otherwise no. Ten. Therefore, the defendant, I quote, will forward the request for exemption to the body that is overseeing it, and after the decision has been taken by that body, will make a new legal solution. Therefore, the judgment of the Administrative Court ordered the Presidents of the Commission to submit the exemption application to the second-degree body, not to decide which one it is, rather than the commission, because the commission itself, as far as I know, does not exercise control. It is an incorrect claim that this bill would deprive me of any authority or delay this procedure. In fact, this procedure cannot be slowed down, it is so slowed down that it is very difficult to slow it down because it has been going on for over 100 days with an uncertain conclusion because we are awaiting the obvious decision of the High Administrative Court, and then the decision and the Constitutional Court afterwards, and we have already had decisions by the relevant parliamentary committees. In our proposal, this is very clear now. If the request comes, it shall be referred to the High Administrative Court and then, within 8 days, the Council of 3 members shall decide on it. So, in order to no longer be lost in these procedural legal misdemeanours, and explanations of procedural legal safeguards are the best proof that the law is not accurate, that it needs to be precise. It is very clear, the request, the message, the instructions, the presidents of the commission to do what the HDZ asks of it would be a direct violation of the verdict in the case of Mrs. Martine Dalic because she was ordered to deliver the exemption request to a second-degree body or a supervisory body. The fact that the law does not say which body is the failure of the legislator, we are trying to correct it with this proposal and make it clear what the procedure of the commission is when it receives a request for exemption, and in some ways we are giving officials the direction to know and have the right to know when they send a legitimate request for an exemption who decides. I will discuss the political implications of the request for exemption and the work of the commission when I have the opportunity to speak in an individual debate because I no longer have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149532	Thank you. We have five replicas, first mate Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149533	Thank you very much, Vice President. So colleague Bauk, members of the commission and president are officials and they are obliged to adhere as officials of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, it is probably unequivocal, very clear. Art. 6. which speaks precisely about what it is necessary to separate private from the public interest, very clearly, precisely, in the 4th point speaks after the selection of appointments. So the same goes for the members of the committee and the president. That's the rule, that's what I was pointing out, that's exactly what this is about, and that's why we said there's no point in passing, accepting your law that says removing work on the subject. So, if there are circumstances that would indicate a conflict of interest in relation to a specific official whose case the commission decides, opinion or other acts of its jurisdiction, they are obliged to remove their participation, president and members of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149534	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149535	That's right, they're bound to do it on their own if they think so, ma'am. Novakovic obviously believes that he should not because he is not in conflict of interest, and then the court said no, you did as Batinic told you to do, but you did not do the right thing, but referred you to the second-degree body. So if you listen to Bačić, you'll make a mistake because he writes a second-degree body, and if you do as Batinić told you, then we'll cancel your solution, you didn't do it legally. Here, that's what you're saying right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149536	The next replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think fellow Bauk that you have made a very nice statement of what HDZ is asking of you, what Batinic is asking for, what Bacic is asking for. If we are talking about the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest then we should first and foremost talk about an independent body regardless of what it is HS because such a body should be a guarantee of supervision of the spending of public money and control of acquisition we want to say either money or real estate or whatever you want from officials of those who are able to handle public money. And finally, when you say political implications, well, unfortunately here are all political implications if you ask me because here we can hear about the inputs of different politicians from different parties that are usually those in power. After all, we heard from the Prime Minister himself what he thought of the commission. And I can also remind you of some of the claims made by my colleagues here before the HDZ organization is criminal. That's not what I said, but that would be the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149538	Thank you. Comrade Bauk, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149539	Mr. Hajdukovic, when we talk about the independence of the commission, I must say that I was skeptical at first, especially in the case of Mrs. Novakovic's election, and if you remember, we neither voted nor participated in Mrs. Novakovic's vote. So she was elected in a secret vote with 78 votes by the parliamentary majority and those who joined the vote, so all of them as one. However, my impression is that they thought that Mrs. Novakovic would behave according to her initials, that she would remain recorded in the commission's work as NN and that they were obviously wrong. So, even though we were skeptical at first, we're glad that our skeptics didn't prove justified. And I think the government's policy in the case of the commission can only be described with that sentence anyway I think the commission should... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149540	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149541	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you have very well explained the reasons for our proposal for this law, but it is very important to say that through its members of the Constitution Committee, the SDP proposed solutions on several occasions how to get out of this situation and how to speed up the whole process or to give an interpretation that the Croatian Parliament should decide on Ms Novakovic's exemption and that the HDZ has all been rejected and that this process does not start for 100 days, or that there is no decision at all to start the process and that this situation cannot be resolved and that this is the reason why we are proposing this law. We would not have proposed this law if we had come to a solution on the Committee on the Constitution the first time that you, our representatives, proposed it on that committee. And so I think it's the same very important detail to see in terms of how much HDZ this whole time wants to be that it doesn't even come to the start of this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149542	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149543	To paraphrase the founder of HDZ, this is about the impasses of the procedural legal reality in which the Committee of Conflict of Interests was found. If you did not comply with the regulation, you did not comply with the ZUP, if you followed the ZUP, you did not comply with the special law. So he wants to keep the commission on a short leash and threaten that we can take down every decision you make because we will always find something that you haven't acted on. And that's why we don't want the law to be clear because then we have a greater possibility that a little commission like this is trying to stick to the ice. So this norm is clear, it may not be perfect, but we haven't heard any additional, supplemental suggestions on how to fix it. If the HDZ Club gives any amendment that will be clear, if that's their condition for accepting this bill, I believe we'll accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149544	The next replica of my colleague, Glasovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149545	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you're right when you say that in this case the work of the commission is maximumly slowed down and that by adopting this law he can only be accelerated. However, the HDZ is not responsible for speeding up the process. What you said was true. The HDZ actually wants to keep the commission and Natasha Novakovic in a stalemate position like this now that the law does not say who decides on the exemption. Because as long as she's in a stalemate position, they can sort of blackmail her, and whatever she does, I can say she made a mistake. Therefore, it does not answer to them to define it by law. If it suits them to say that it is the commission that needs to decide on the conflict of interest of the president or of a member, so make an amendment to our law, give the amendment. Let's get it into the law. We're even willing to accept that amendment just to get rid of that Gordian knot.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149546	Thank you, answer, here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149547	Okay, I can partly agree with you, he's not as slow as possible, he'd be as slow as he could be if the commission were lifted, then he'd be as slow as possible. So now this is almost as slow as possible. But I find the most interesting measure, so the Prime Minister believes that Mrs. Novakovic is in conflict of interest because she worked at the HUP funded by Todorovic. That fact was also known in the election. So you consciously chose someone you think is in conflict of interest what he was doing somewhere where he worked, where he was influenced by Todorovic. It was known before that Mrs. Novakovic was working at the HUP. But what's interesting is that whoever knows you better because he worked in Agrokor, Mr. Zdravko Maric, for example, did not ask for the exception of Natasha Novakovic because she worked at HUP and who was... That's very interesting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Mr. Plenkovic knows better relations than Mr. Maric who worked there or doesn't trust him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149548	The last replica of your presentation by Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149549	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, this philosophy on who should do what is really getting a little bit tired. So since you're told there's an example, it means nothing that's the first time and nothing that hasn't happened before. By the same law, someone had already made an exception when he realized that at one point he was in a potential relationship that could be interpreted as a conflict of interest. And you're now convincing us that when you write it, it's only then to happen. It's already happened, and now I don't understand what you're trying to achieve with this debate except that you're saying that you're up for something now, etc., no one's stopping the lady from making the same move, no one and no one's stopping her from doing it. So why don't you make that decision yourself. Who's defending her? No one. And as for this statement by Mr. Hajdukovic about a criminal organisation or a party, I will only read you a quote from today's testimony: "He claimed that he then gave the mayor 100,000 euros in 500 euros in denominations. She put them behind some paintings and told me not to worry." Do you consider yourself a criminal, Mr. Bauk, in your party for this kind of testimony?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149550	Thank you, time. Answer me, buddy... 11 seconds, sorry. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149551	I don't think so, Mr. Boric. So, thank you. First of all, what we want to achieve with this debate, the opposition always wants to achieve the debate. We have no illusions that now we're going to make you change your attitude. The only thing is, you had one inaccuracies. So, you'd be Mrs. Novakovic suggested that he be excused rather than decide whether to exclude himself. She did it, and the court ruled that she didn't do it right. And he instructed her to deliver a request for exemption to a body that was under supervision. What body is overseeing the Committee for Conflict of Interest? It's either the Parliament or the High Administrative Court. There's no third. The council said he wasn't in charge, the administrative court said he wasn't in charge and Mrs. Novakovic cannot comply with the court's ruling and she would violate the law once again if she were to rule on a court ruling in a case which she is in charge of... The verdict. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149552	Thank you. We're moving on. Thank you, colleague Boric, colleague Bauk, thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU and Independent Representatives and SNAGA fellow Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149553	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Today's debate was mostly on the level of free associations, so since that's the case, I might as well say something that comes to mind. The first thing that comes to mind is, let's say, a description of one condition when we discuss courts, who works in these courts and who judges in these courts. We read in the paper that a judge overstepped the speed of driving, that the police stopped him, he didn't stop because the police are experiencing what she does as a call for social contact. A man would hang out and obviously like to hang out on roads, and if that association doesn't happen, there are no great sanctions because he is a judge and he respects Croatian laws like this. On the other hand, we have an example of a constitutional judge who had some kind of minor car accident, who left the scene, which is why, because social contact was reached, but she did not want to continue hanging out, so she just extended and did not bear any sanctions for that act. When we are discussing a country where corruption should be calculated, when we are discussing a country where conflict of interest should go away, let us bear in mind what is happening in our public today and what are institutions and what are institutions and what are those people who should prevent conflict of interest or those people who should sanction offenders. Furthermore, here's the next association, and that's the difference between descriptive and normative. It's descriptive when you describe what happened, and the normative request for an act should be. This normically refers to ethical or moral norm. Moral or ethical norm is now stored in the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, just as I said in today's debate that Croatian emotions are contained in the ministry that today was proposed by the Social Pedagogues Act. This is how Croatian ethics and kindness are found in this committee because, in the end, if we all come together, the commission will make a decision to one great child who will not be able to deal with it, and that decision means, you were good or you were not good, please be a little better next time. If we radically banalise or reduce this commission to that extent, this is exactly the kind of decision that the commission makes. It's ultimately an ethical body. And why one cannot deal with the decisions of an ethical body, it speaks of his moral, mental, historical, anthropological, party or any other constitution. People who cannot deal with this, who cannot be in relation to the body brought by an ethical court but are boycotting this ethical court, have already proven themselves to be in conflict of interest, not in conflict and in a state of lawlessness with public morality. That's what we're discussing. This proposal by the SDP is a good proposal, despite all my criticisms that I have made and which my colleague Bacic has put in the wrong context. If he had placed him in the right context, then Bacic should say, as HDZ appreciates the work of the commission as an autonomous body, I will propose to the president of HDZ and the prime minister to withdraw his request for the removal of the chairman of the commission. In this way, he would show and prove his appreciation for the commission's work. In addition, the commission is a collective body. Can a committee sit in someone who is unable to bring and judge on the basis of public interest? He can't. But since there has been a blocking and disabling of the work of this body, the opposition responsible opposition is looking for a way to point to the paradoxicality of this act and ultimately, how the public is already forming a position on whether there has been a breach or whether there has been a conflict of interest or whether there has been a breach of this moral, public norm. Yes, it is. As soon as such a request arose, there was a conflict of interest because someone demonstrated their political power, and let us bear in mind that political power is powerless because it lasts 1 term. The political power of the powerless people in one term turns to creations, what was at the beginning of the mandate, at the end of the term is no longer. Next association. Croatia, therefore, is not all but many, Croatia is a country worth one historical truth that is being passed as a time-consuming one, and that is that the country whose father is Francis Tudjman. No, I don't. Franjo Tudjman is exclusively the father of HDZ, and HDZ can exist in a triple way. The first is an authentic way and it is HDZ that has its authentic song in continuity. The second HDZ is a unconscious HDZ. That's when you look for someone else's singer, but HDZ notes. It's a HDZ that's unconscious and there's a semi-aware HDZ, and it's the one that sings it all over the place. In these circumstances of authentic, unconscious and subconscious HDZ, in these circumstances in which, thanks to political, party, party pathology, we believe that institutions are moving into our parties, that we are the only anti-corruption fighters, that we are the only ones who created the Republic, that we are the only ones who will fight for social justice. We can't do that if we think it's happening in the circumstances of our party, our political group. These are all painful illusions that lead to the collapse of the state and that lead to the collapse of the institution. The committee to decide on a conflict of interest is primarily an ethical body and the ethical body is feared by someone. In terrorism, my colleague Boris disappeared because he mentioned the concept of philosophy in a negative context, it reflects only the Balkan consciousness. Only in the Balkan nations does philosophy have a peorative meaning like that activity that means nothing. In all other nations, in all other countries philosophy is at least a critical synthesis of everything that is possible to know or anything that is real. And that's what this world opens up based on criticism. Clearly, in the Balkan consciousness, philosophizing has a perorative meaning because reality is created in the authentic song of its own party, at least until the party rejects it. Which is why they are afraid of the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest as they are in terrorism or philosophy of terrorism, not to upset the Balkans. In the philosophy of terrorism, there's a reason why terrorists are most afraid of what they have and the strength they've attacked. In the attack on the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, those who attacked the commission are most afraid of what the commission has, which is to bring an ethical public court, you were not good. And we need to allow these bill proposals for that court to finally be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149554	The next debate on behalf of the MPs' club is a debate on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, counterpart Zeljo Jovanovic. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149555	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, one thought of my colleague Vučetić, is crucial, which is why we propose this. So, counterpart Vučetic asked himself, if they really want an independent commission, if they trust that commission, so why don't they leave the commission to make no decision, why are they hiding the materials, why are they cowardly looking for President Novakovic's exemption, why are they doing so much, so much fog selling around the road in Finland? If they really think everything's okay, so file with all the materials the commission is looking for and the commission you trust will want to make an independent decision. But there is a key problem that HDZ colleagues do not want independent commissions. We heard, said colleague Vučetic, it's an ethical commission. We have an ethical commission that does not work precisely because HDZ and most are obstructing its work. So, the Committee on Ethics in Higher Education and Science, but the name itself says, the ethical body, cannot work because its members have not been elected after the committee has raised the issue of some ethical and ethical proceedings in the academic community, the viscosity of education and science, it is not working today. There is a similar fate being prepared for the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. And that is why we propose our law, our amendments to the law because we truly want to ensure this commission independence, to work without any political pressure. And that's the whole story. Therefore, we know well that at the entrance to the great council there is a Dubrovnik writing, forget your personal thoughts and concern for the public. Why am I saying that, because it also says on the pages, on the home pages of our Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest? Therefore, we as Parliamentarians must have a key task ahead of us, which is to ensure greater confidence in the system. So corruption is destroying segments of society, and it is particularly dangerous that it destroys trust in the system. So shouldn't my colleagues from HDZ, my colleagues and colleagues in the assembly do everything to restore trust in these institutions. Here I will remind you, so this is one table of research Radio Catholic-Godology college and down here at the bottom there are institutions that have the least confidence of Croatian citizens. What institutions are these? Political parties 4%, parliament 8%, government and state administration 10%. Well, I'm ashamed to be in a body that citizens support with 8%. Do you think colleagues and colleagues will grow or fall by obstructing the Committee's work to prevent conflicts of interest? So, if we want to restore citizens' confidence in the system, in the parliament, in the political parties, in the role of Prime Minister or Prime Minister, then we must not make it difficult for the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. And all that's been going on in this term since Mrs. Novakovic took this place is obstruction of the work of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. So there's no colleague of Bačić who spoke for the club. We cannot believe that HDZ wants to ensure the smooth work of this commission for the simple reason that it was in the procedure, the procedure for amending the law was initiated, it was done by a notorious Kuščević where he had the ambition to fully abolish Article 5, Article 5. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. This Article 5 is the very core of the work of the Commission and the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and Article 5: Officials in the conduct of public duties must act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly and impartially, safeguarding their own credibility and dignity as well as the trust of their citizens. The officials are personally responsible for their actions in the conduct of the public duties to which they were appointed or elected to the body or citizens who appointed them or elected them. Officials shall not use public duty for a personal breakthrough or breach of a person associated with them, officials shall not be in any relationship of addiction to persons who may affect their objectivity and fourthly, citizens shall be entitled to be familiar with the behaviour of officials as public persons, who are in relation to the conduct of their duties. So, colleagues and colleagues, the abolition of this article of the principle of action, Art. 5. means negating the sense of the existence of the Law to prevent conflicts of interest and the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest. That is why our proposal also goes towards strengthening the independence of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest because only in this way, a strong, independent institution can we ensure a return of trust in politics, a return of trust in all that we are doing here. Any conflict of interest is not corruption, but it is the lobby of corruption, so by independent work of the commission, we will ensure that this lobby is as small as possible and that we do not move towards systemic corruption in which the rule applies that everyone is corrupt, and those who are not bribed are not offered a high enough price. If we do not want this position to prevail in the Republic of Croatia, let us do our best to ensure the independent work of the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149556	Thank you, too. We continue to present on behalf of the club of representatives, following is colleague Davor Vlaovic in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149557	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, we from the HSS Club and the Democrats will support this proposal supplementing the law on the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests because first of all this independent body should be independent, this collective body should be ruled out in all those divisions, in those citizens' thoughts whether a politician, some official, did his job fairly, whether public money was spent as planned and whether he spent on those purposes as citizens want through their budgets and through their representatives who advocate. In this case where an exemption is sought, there is an impression that this procedure has been going on for more than 100 days, that it simply does not please someone to make a decision and that this body may clearly be in some conflict of interest, some of them, or the chairman of the commission, and that it is best not to make the decision until the presidential elections or perhaps parliamentary elections are passed. Why do you drag this out, why continue to suspect our fellow citizens that our state is not functioning, that there is still a growing index of perception of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, that it is suspected of justice because there are a number of cases where, in similar cases, different courts, different levels, we are not all equal before the law. These additions to the laws go towards this legal uncertainty being resolved, and here is the judgment of the Administrative Court itself talking about the commission and not being able to decide on this case, but that it must be sent to a second-degree competent authority, which is either the HS or the Administrative Court. And that's where all the dilemmas stop. Here are the practical proposals or withdraw the request for exemption or supplement this proposal, which the opposition referred to in the annex procedure, to improve it with the ultimate goal of making a solution to the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest as soon as possible, and that would be the most honest and thus show that we are all clean who we are in this process and that our legal system is functioning. As long as this is not such a doubt, especially the statements they say will no longer be delivered, and then it is placed on local or national press, they say in the direction of ignoring with the highest level the Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the independent body that should be the same government and all of us tools to point out some irregularities, so let it then, on the basis of all relevant data, adopt a solution. This disables the work because not all documentation is delivered, this prevents them from making a solution, requires exceptions, and other words are confirmed by what I initially said is that it does not want the solution to be finally made, it is being drawn up, time is being bought for whom and for what, but the fact that it is ultimately losing the total system, and the government is losing the most because the government has to be quick, efficient and everything that is being questioned by the opposition that they have made a failure, should be resolved quickly because as long as more space is spread for insinuations, planting as you say or politizing. No, this is not purely politicizing, this is one way for me to cut legal proceedings and make a faster solution with the aim of finding out that public money was being spent, whether someone was in conflict of interest or not, if there was nothing to be afraid of and all documentation should be delivered because that legal system is equal to everyone then Agrokor would not have gotten a loan from HBOR 64 million kuna when it was already known that they were in trouble, and on the other hand, the OPGs couldn't get a loan or if they got it then they had to immediately return it to signed deadlines in the contract, and these were not. Now, we haven't all been equal, and don't let this process prove that we're not all equal in front of the institutions of the state, and this is what you're proving, and I suggest you either accept this proposal or modify it with a quality amendment, so that we can come up with a final solution to find out the real truth as soon as possible, and I guess we all care about the real truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149558	Thank you, too. This ended with the debate on behalf of clubs, followed by the individual debate is the first colleague Ivan Lovrinović, a colleague of Lovrinović does not have, in accordance with Article. 233. He's losing his right to debate. Next up, my friend Miro Bulj, he's gone, too. In accordance with Article 233, it shall lose the right to discuss this item of the agenda. And after them, he's a colleague of Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have a debate on one, in my opinion a very important topic and de facto is one of the few institutions that remained independent and which does its job regardless of whether it is this or that official, this or that party member, either either an independent representative or an independent commissioner. And do your job in continuity. And if there were a little wisdom in the HDZ colleagues, they would not undermine it but would try to make that institution work further because it contributes to everyone in the Republic of Croatia. It primarily contributes to those who are involved in politics and contributes to the feeling that there is someone who will say as a colleague earlier said that there is an institution that will say that something is ethical or that it is not and that people believe it. Because when we have a state in which judges flee to the police, in which the processes last for decades and then more or less expected people are released, although they have already admitted crimes at the beginning of the investigation, but then they are exempt because they were not legally collected but have told people what it was about and now after 10 years FIMI MEDIA are released, people have no fundamental trust in institutions in the Republic that whoever does something bad will be punished and that it will be quick and that the punishment will be just. HDZ is unable to submit a small inspection of what happened on the trip to Finland. Showing travel orders to see who was on the road, which is why he was on the road, whether the road is justified, what is written in the travel order, the information that Croatian citizens should be familiar with under normal means there should be no special procedure. The right to access information allows any such information that Croatian citizens know because of their money someone went on the road. In this case, a state-run official plane where HDZ colleagues were taken to a party meeting in Finland, i.e. at a convention of the European People's Party and then organised on the way to make the pro-forms something like a protocol meeting with the prime minister of Finland. And there were all and those who should be and those who shouldn't be. In fact, those who should be at the European People's Party meeting but I am deeply convinced did not need to attend some bilateral meetings with Finnish officials in particular. And then we have two travel orders, one travel order issued by the government. Bay the way since it is without paying a travel order can be written at any time. Who guarantees us that the travel order was even issued at the time when the delegation went on the road and another travel order which was backed up and on the diaries written in HDZ. Now he's asking himself, "What makes the prime minister want to go on the road and officially take the diaries out of the party register and not the diaries he's entitled to as president of the government of the Republic of Croatia?" Maybe it's because there was no travel order at all. Maybe the travel order was later written, who knows when and who can guarantee it to us. And instead of removing all information and any suspicions from the case, the prime minister is calling and sending a message to Croatian citizens that he will not comply with Croatian laws and that he will not respect the institutions of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Only I will now tell you something that I am deeply convinced of, is the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that works independently from the authorities because in all possible other fields of the HDZ government, or the government has an impact directly or indirectly on both courts and across the courts, we see that the situation with the Constitutional Court has passed, where the Constitutional Court interprets not unanimously but in divided votes that it should not have called the meeting of the Croatian Parliament within 30 days what it says in the Constitution in the way that HDZ interpreted it, or the President of the Croatian Parliament Jandrokovic and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. And now there's an institution that resists, I'd say the HDZ pressures and it needs to be ousted and... And that's why we all here have to rebel against it and make it possible for people to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Novakovic is, here I join this finding by my colleague, Bauk, and I didn't vote for her, but I already told her half a year ago that I knew which way the commission would be set up equally for everyone to raise, i.e. rounding up 2x that I could have done the same paper. So Mrs. Novakovic did an amazing job and should be given full support. And HDZ wants the commission to shut down and remove Ms. Novakovic from her path of non-transparency and corruption. From his path of intransparentity and corruption. I would like Prime Minister Plenkovic to do so for Croatian and Croatian citizens to show little respect and trust and respect for the commission, according to the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's weird to me, here's the paradox, Mr. Boric and Mr. Djakic voted for Mrs. Novakovic and I'm not and now I'm defending her, and they don't let her work. So how is that possible? How is it possible that those who chose her, I don't know two years or less than that, won't let her work, and I who didn't vote for her, I'm defending her from doing her job because I see a woman trying and that the whole commission is trying. And that there is only one person in the commission that HDZ can put pressure on, obviously and continuously, because that person has opted out of this last case of voting and, unfortunately, that way, things work out. It would be good for you gentlemen to support this law, to unblock this situation and restore trust to the Croatian Parliament, to see that we are protecting the decisions we have made ourselves. So we brought in and we trusted that commission. Will the HDZ gentlemen vote for the committee's report or will you show them that they were not doing well and ask them to step aside because they stood firm both with Mrs Dalic and whom Mr Maric and Mr Plenkovic and with a whole series of other cases? And I am pleased at the end, I can say it this way that I am sure that Mrs. Novakovic will continue to do her job if HDZ obstructs it for the next year I am convinced after the next elections, because such a commission needs the Republic of Croatia. And maybe I'll say an even stronger grade, maybe someone will take it wrong, but I speak as a Croatian citizen. I am proud of how the independent commission of Ms. Novakovic works, I am very proud that there is someone in Croatia who will say no to HDZ, you cannot press me from the institutions of course of those who are named. Unfortunately, there's not much of an institution like that that's going to tell HDZ that you can't do everything as if it's your nephew, but it's something that's among all the citizens of the Republic, so you want to file your accounts for the job you're doing. Instead of rewarding such people, I can see that HDZ people do not respond, but their colleagues who have had to leave their posts because of corruption, who have to defend them warmly in the Croatian Parliament as if they had done good things, not that they had to resign because of these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149560	We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague, Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149561	Thank you. You spoke to your colleague Maras about the importance of trusting citizens in institutions in the fight against corruption, so without citizens who will report in good faith corruption, there is no fight against corruption. And at the same time, I don't know if you know, we've passed a law here in the House, the Law on the Protection of Whistles, and we've entrusted them with a very important function of the occupier, who is also under the pressure of the HDZ, the institution of the Commissioner for Access to Information in the event of a whistler complaint. Do you know how much money is provided for the work of the commissioners? There's zero kuna secured. So, this is another proof to which the HDZ truly approaches in the fight for corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149562	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149563	Thank you very much. I must admit that here is now that my colleague Jovanovic mentioned the attorney general that I must also point her out as someone he would say, not only in this situation but in many situations of deviation in our society she reacts in good time and casts pressures on those who have not already expressed confidence in the Croatian Parliament several times. So here's a little sorry I didn't remember her in my debate. It is also a sacred example of a person who performs his duty in a way that is not subject to political pressures and petty passions, which unfortunately are usually supported when HDZ comes to power in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149564	The last replica of your presentation, counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149565	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your discussion, you mentioned a Croatian judge who had been published, driven too fast and then fled to the police, and you also mentioned the process in the Fimi media that the defendants there had confessed to the actions and were later released, so I want to pull a parallel there. So today, the judge said in the media that a police interceptor encouraged him to drive fast and that that's why he was driving fast because he was motivated. And maybe some indictees in the Fima media were encouraged to take the money, so they weren't guilty, but I guess they should have been the one who encouraged them. So, there's a lot of illogicalness, there's a lot of noises, and that's all that sends a bad picture to the citizens, and because of the citizens, they lose their trust in the institutions of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149566	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149567	Thank you very much. It's absolutely a scandal and it's amazing that one judge can say that, and it's also amazing that he's not responding to the court's calls. He should be an example, if the state, the court calls you, you have to respond no matter what. So that's one situation that's possible in the Republic of Croatia. And it's amazing to me that the judicial authorities have not yet responded with a conviction, a statement, etc., I don't mean individual statements by certain judges, but by the judicial authority of the Republic of Croatia or the DSV. And on the other hand, as far as Fimi Media is concerned, it's a paradox in itself. So the person who confessed among the first to commend former Prime Minister Sanader for withdrawing money from one ministry and giving such a statement was released months or months ago and his testimony was not taken into account in court at all because he was not collected legally. It's something that HDZ...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149568	Thank you, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149569	Okay. Please take care of the dynamics of the sentence, five seconds won't...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149570	Thank you. I took care of the dynamics of the sentence. We continue with an individual debate, colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a very important topic for us today, and I'm going to start with two quotes from Prime Minister Plenkovic. One came alone to change HDZ so that he could change Croatia. In the end, HDZ changed him. And the second is, I won't let anyone give me and HDZ a nice label of corruption. And certainly no one is to HDZ, nor to him is fair; they are beautiful to themselves by their deeds, and especially to him. Unfortunately for him, what's going on all along his government, what kind of message he's sending. So the moment he says this second sentence that he won't let anyone let him and his government have a nice label of corruption have the opportunity to peel it away from himself and his government. At the moment when the 4 ministers in his government fall for suspicion of conflict of interest, due to suspicion of corruption, he in this House of Commons, instead of saying that unfortunately four colleagues are under suspicion, not guilty, not guilty, we don't know if they're guilty, but are under suspicion and disrupting the work of the government and putting a terrible burden on my government and HDZ, and therefore they can no longer be ministers in my government because I won't let anyone give me a nice label of corruption, me, my government and HDZ do the opposite. He praises us here their great works and how successful ministers are and how they did miracles and, behold, he replaces them on the other hand. And why did you replace them if they were great? For what? That's what's unclear. So on this example, Prime Minister Plenkovic had the opportunity to blind the label of corruption and conflict of interest from himself and his government that he only made it clear that I do not want these people to be a burden to me. Not getting into it whether they're guilty or not. Then, on the other hand, it happens that after the four ministers were replaced in the express period, Minister Kuščević, his immunity was removed, so there was no further meeting of the Croatian Parliament, but the Mandate-Immunity Commission explicitly removed his immunity because the State's Attorney's Office raised doubts against him and went into some kind of investigative action. And what HDZ does then, instead of pasting that label of corruption and the crimes of counterpart Kustević, who is being placed on him and HDZ, they are trying to appoint him to the Committee on Legislatives. Well, that's a great message to the Croatian public. Top is a message sent by the prime minister that no one will stick to his corruption label. Here's what he's calling it. He's trying to name his colleague Kuštević in the Legislative Committee. These are all messages that this government and HDZ send to the Croatian public as they look at the issue. We also now have this commission situation that has been under unprecedented pressure since the beginning. So, we go back again to Minister Kuštević who before this escapade with land every day has been putting pressure on the Commission for the determination of conflicts of interest, threatening to change the laws in which he will rule them, in which he did not legally involve them, because the law states that the commission must be involved in the adoption of a new law. They had one meeting and then they didn't meet again for a year. And that's all the pressure on the commission's work all the time. Well, the pressure is what's been going on these last 100 days, so HDZ refuses to provide documentation, that Prime Minister Plenkovic is seeking Ms. Novakovic's exemption, which is right but then through his party colleagues, through the bodies of this High House and other instruments, blocking the decision-making process at all to decide on its exemption. And that's why we're proposing, we propose this law, to get rid of that proud knot that's created in the interest of HDZ because they don't want to talk about it at all, they don't want it to be decided at all. That exemption request came from Mrs. Dalic, so we didn't all forget how that lady left the government. So she was also praised by Prime Minister Plenkovic for doing huge wonders, huge success, but here she is. And why did she leave if she was good? Why did she leave if she was good? We have not forgotten how a group in this society wrote a law that, under suspicious circumstances, took us months to find out who wrote the lex Agrokor law, and then, based on the law they wrote, they pulled half a billion kuna out of Agrokor for consulting services, and then Mrs. Dalic left the government, but she did great work, she did well according to the prime minister, but she must leave. These are all some examples on which Prime Minister Plenkovic could send a message to the public for what he was saying, in works, so not in words, in works, I will not allow anyone to give me a beautiful label of corruption. But on the other hand, it's exactly the opposite. I'm going to say one more time, it's inconceivable to me that HDZ doesn't want to give bills in the Helsinki case, that he won't give bills to the commission, that he's obstructing the decision and then those travel orders come out in the paper. Who put them in the media? So HDZ holds more to the media and to some half-kanals through the Evening List places those orders outside but does not want to give them to the commission. On the other hand, the prime minister of the last days constantly, here today we listen to a colleague of Bacic who here says he believes in an independent commission, gave neither an independent decision nor a prime minister on the other hand is constantly sending a message that the motives of the commission are political and that he wants to politically destabilise HDZ and its government with his work. Well, what kind of messages are these? But on the other hand, what Mr. Maras is saying is that the commission obviously remains the last independent body in this country and that's why it doesn't fit HDZ because it doesn't play how they don't play or sing as they wish. So these are all the things that are not good, that send a bad picture and that create mistrust in Prime Minister Plenkovic and his government and do exactly the opposite of what he would want at least declared as he says and we want the SDP to solve this problem. We have been through the Committee on the Constitution and the political system for several times in these 100 days, proposing certain solutions as we see this being resolved, unfortunately we are not respected, and for this reason there has been a proposal of this law, and now for the fourth time, Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ have the opportunity to send a message to the public that they do not want to have a nice label of corruption and can therefore accept this law, so they can move towards resolving this situation that we have about Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, they can deliver the documentation to the Commission and can begin to work in public to resolve it and accept this law, and then it can be said that Prime Minister Plenkovic does not allow anyone to have a beautiful label of corruption, otherwise this government will be remembered as the most corrupt government in Croatian history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149572	Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit, first colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149573	Thank you very much. counterpart Djujic, Prime Minister Plenkovic could send a very clear message at the current morning that there is no place in his government not only for corruption, but also for suspicion of it, however. He reached out to a weapon in which he accused the opposition of creating some kind of framework that wanted to allude that his government was full of conflict of interest and corruption, not seeing that he was not only creating a frame, but also kniting goblet together with his ministers and thus becoming an accomplice in this corrupt character even of these HDZ governments although we thought that these times were thick, fat behind us, who had unfortunately received the crown in some court proceedings, however unfortunately seems to be repeating history in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149574	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149575	You said exactly, Prime Minister Plenkovic could have sent a message, he could've sent a message tomorrow, but here's what I'm reading today in a newspaper that is precisely Mrs. Plenkovic's. Gabriela Žalac, who had to leave the government because of the Mercedes affair, is now planning to send Prime Minister Plenkovic to a new post in Brussels for a salary of EUR 15,000,00, I don't know if that's true, but we'll see. But if that's going in that direction, that's another message that Prime Minister Plenkovic is sending about let's talk to the thieves in his ranks. So, the lady was resolved, she didn't know how she got Mercedes, then this whole summer she was riding with Mercedos on the beach, I guess she thinks if she's been replaced more, Mercedes can now show up and for the prize here she goes to Brussels for 15,000,00 EUR, that's it, those are messages that are being sent. So every day, Prime Minister Plenkovic has a chance to send a message, and we will see what it will be like in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149576	Thank you. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149577	In your debate, you are justifiably surprised by the behaviour of HDZ or Prime Minister Plenkovic from the official trip to Finland for which he did not want to show the accounts. Here I am going to Finland on Sunday and I'm going to show you a travel order here, here you can get it for insight and Mr. Djakic and Mr. Boric and Mr. Strick, so you can all get it from HDZ's people here who are present if you need to see it, and I don't see what the problem is, which is why Prime Minister Plenkovic and the other ministers didn't want to show it. So let's get these standards up a little bit that are unfortunately, unfortunately because of the behavior of those in HDZ brought to the lowest possible branches. So this isn't how it was in the '90s, more transparency and less corruption was in the '90s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149578	Thank you. Here's your colleague's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149579	Thank you very much. So that fellow Maras, I don't see where the problem is if it's all clear, what's the problem? Well, the Prime Minister has the right to use an official aircraft, it's all signed, he can go to a party event if that day happens and some official trip. Also, if HDZ officials go with him, the plane flies like that, I also don't see where the problem is to go if it's clearly and clearly said and if it's announced. But this avoidance, it's not the first case, let's remember we and the President's trip to America where it was later declared a state secret, so no data was given to the commission because it was a state secret so they didn't conduct the procedure there at all, that painting in front of the white house fence, etc., so it's not the first case, but it's not good and these things should be prescribed by law, and that's why we're proposing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149580	Comrade Jovanovic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149581	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, you spoke again of travel orders and Helsinki. How do you think the highest-ranking official in the Council of Europe will feel who will probably have one of the first tasks to be given, to consider complaints from the Republic of Croatia to the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest, which the Council of Europe will regret to the authority of the Council of Europe because of the attempt to come to the truth and to determine the facts concerning this time in Finland.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149582	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149583	Well, I believe she'll feel ashamed and ashamed because, it seems to me like such a person, and I don't think she's going to contribute to the start of her work in that new body, such a single fact that she's going to have to decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149584	Here you go, fellow Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149585	Thank you. Dear Djujic, you spoke of high moral qualities and the virtues of SDP, and speaking of these moral SDP verticals from the north of the Republic of Croatia, so here I will only list 3 examples, 3 counties, 3 SDP representatives and also the chief. SDP's representative and chief sentenced to 10 months in prison, condition 2nd, for a criminal offense against official duty. The former SDP's current mayor convicted of abuse of office for five months of conditions, a former mayoral representative sentenced to eight months on probation due to a felony forging an official id, three top-ranking SDP official, three counties, and that's the moral vertical you're talking about, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149586	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149587	Dear colleague, I wasn't talking about the moral verticals of the SDP but about the moral verticals of the HDZ, and you yourself said ex, ex, ex, ex, that's the difference. We have an ex, and you have Kuščević as a member of the Committee on Legislatives, which is the difference between colleagues. Mrs. Lovric here mentions her colleague, Boric, often, a former SDP woman kicked out, formerly. So that's the difference, the works show up. I appeal here again, support the law. Prime Minister Plenkovic can show by works that he does not want those labels to be nice to him, which is what I'm talking about, the messages he sends. So this Friday there is no vote, there is a second week, a colleague of Kuščević will be elected to the Committee on Legislatives, it is a message, he is current, he is there, I think sitting next to you right next to you sitting next to you. I just hope your grandfather's picture doesn't bother you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149588	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Sabina Vosovac. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The SDP proposes by this law only three articles, among other things saying "The president and members of the commission must be excluded from acting in a particular case if they are: 1. With a blood relative in a straight line, and in the auxiliary line up to the 4th degree, a spouse or relative according to the masculine to the 2nd degree final and at the end of the marriage. 2. They shall be exempt from the conduct in a particular case, the President and the members of the commission, if they are with an official in relation to the custodian, adoptor or adoptor, if they are in a close personal relationship with an official in an economic or other business relationship, if there are other reasons that might prejudice the decision of the president or members of the commission in a particular case. Any person participating in the procedure shall without delay inform the Commission of the existence of a reason for the exemption of the President or of the members of the commission. If the president or members of the commission do not exempt themselves from acting in a particular case, the request for the exemption of the president or members of the commission will be forwarded without delay to the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia for a decision. The High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia shall decide in a panel of three judges within eight days of the date of receipt of a full request for the exemption of the President or of the members of the Commission." What bothers you in precisely this proposal for a law which lists the reasons in which the president and the members of the commission must be excluded from acting in a particular case? I don't see any reason why it bothers anyone, that there are clearly criteria in which members of the commission who decide on conflict of interest, potential conflict of interest or any inadequate behaviour of any of us who are government officials, if they decide, judge, give opinions, make decisions, conduct actions on our fates, what do you have against clearly writing laws in which they could possibly come into conflict of interest and if it is in such a situation as to resolve this proud knot? I don't see any reason nor have I heard on behalf of the HDZ Club that you said what's wrong with you in this law. It's just that you lied and said that it's quite clear that it already says that the exemption of a member, a single member of a committee or a president of a commission says that the exemption is decided only by the commission, and we would now push it to the Supreme Court. That's a lie. Here you can read nice and you know that you've fooled the public, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest doesn't talk about it, doesn't talk about it, doesn't say it. Whoever decides whether the president in this case is the president or members of the committee whether they are in a potential conflict of interest and who decides on their exemption, it does not say anywhere. And since it's not written anywhere, one interprets that the commission should decide, and others say maybe not the commission, but maybe it should be sent to a higher instance. We have been in a stalemate for almost a few months now because Mr. Plenkovic asked in the case of Martine Dalic that the president of the commission be excused in that particular case because she used to work for the chamber and was in some kind of business relationship with the subject that was being decided in this case, we know that it was Agrokor. And it suits you, obviously you're comfortable with that tampering in the dark and we'll never get out of that doubt. Why? Because you want to get rid of Madam President of the Committee for Decision on conflict of interest and you're waiting for her. How are you waiting for her? You're waiting for her to take a step. If the exception to the commission's decision doesn't say it anywhere, it's in red, if it decides to exclude someone else, or it reaches for it, it's back in red and it's actually digging itself a pit of whatever that woman does. She said, "I don't think I should be excluded and I'm not in any conflict of interest, and you decide." And who are you now? So we want to write in this law that it's the body of the High Administrative Court. Maybe it's an instance, we can discuss it here today, but let's just say who it should be. My colleague Bačić, if I understand correctly, says that we should trust the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest and they should decide whether Mrs Novakovic is in this case in a conflict of interest. So put it in the law, if you're not going to add an amendment to our bill, here's a point 61 of the law that we're harmonising with the new State Administration System Act. One of those points tomorrow is the government's proposal, the same amendment, or the addition of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. If you are under the honor of intervening with the amendment to our law and correcting our law here tomorrow you have a chance to pass the correction exam and tomorrow propose an amendment and we will seriously consider even supporting that amendment. Why? Because any solution is better than any solution, better than this stalemate where the work on one subject is blocked, where the minister has already long since actually left. If you don't... There's a fellow Batinic on the same trail, he says it's in some kind of rule book, doesn't say it in the rule book. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rulebook only says that a person can be excluded. But if she doesn't want to be excused, she doesn't write again who needs to decide on her exception. If you don't, let your colleague Batinić here as your coalition partner write that amendment either on our law or on the law that's here tomorrow at the assembly session and we can also agree on that. I say any solution to bring into the law, to define who it is that decides, in this case on the removal, the blocking of the commission's work on a particular case or at least to slow down the work of the commission is better than this stalemate position. But you're not going to do it because you're here, in person, only here, saying that you are for the fight against corruption and that you are for every solution that contributes to the better work of the commission and all independent institutions. This commission has been a permanent independent and independent state body any, any, until when? Until you came to power. But you have no problem just with this commission where you put your political paw on that commission, where you are bothered by the independence of the institutions because you have learned to rule and the government means power. That's what Plenkovic says when he says I won't give you the papers, I drew you everything, that means the state is me. Yeah, there are laws in this country, but there's something above the law, it's me, it's Louis, it's the state, it's me. You have no problem only with Mrs Natasha Novakovic, you also had a problem with Mrs Dalia Oreskovic who had to work on the Tomislav Karamark case, we know how it ended. You also had a problem with children's attorney Ivana Milas Klaric, whom you brutally replaced here before the term of office ended. You've had your time, and you've still got a problem with the attorney general's office, only you can't change her by refusing the report just as easily. You have a problem with the independence of institutions and there's a crucial problem, there's a crucial problem. You're asking independent institutions like the defense attorneys not to point out problems but to probably run with what I see, what I hear I don't hear, and if I still have to see and hear then at least the least I can do to get the authorities to think about it is, don't talk about it. You're not doing a good job, you're not doing a good job because in this way of collapsing, political pressure on the independence of the institutions we permanently destroy society, democracy, but it is, now sounds a little bit like a flossule and it's actually a sad fact that we are in the 21st century and that we're still having some discussions that we had 10 years ago when we started certain bodies of the institution and that the situation in some areas is still years ago than it was 5 or 7 years ago. I appeal to you once again, to common sense, get out of your party, narrow frameworks, of partial political interests. And let's at least once do something in the common interest, in the interest of the independence of the institutions. Mr. Bacic said the same night we were on one of the Open Shows that HDZ is to fight corruption and that preventing conflicts of interest is one of those steps. Okay, he said it and now you have a chance to show in action whether what he said and what you say every day really and really think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149590	Four replicas. He's my first colleague, Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149591	Thank you very much. Comrade Voter, you're wondering what's wrong with HDZ in this proposal. They're distracted by the commission. The commission bothers them. So he is now former Minister Kuscevic as the minister announced changes to the laws that should completely disengage the commission. And there is no solution to them that would lead to the improvement and efficiency of the Commission's work. It doesn't suit them, it bothers them, and that's why they won't support this proposal, because of it. And you've noticed it's all a declarative nature. So they keep saying that we're for it, we support it, it's the right thing to do, but then in practice it's all the opposite, it's all the opposite and it's all the wrong way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149592	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149593	You noticed, I was just reading today the report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest for the year 2018, which will be very quickly on the parliamentary benches, i.e. on the agenda is just a matter of which day we will discuss and for the first time, I think, and all these reports have been given the consent of all the representatives here and were very comprehensive and quality and so, but for the first time on one page we certainly have a tax on 7 or 10 pages, it includes both the former and the current president, and the trouble of passing new laws on the prevention of conflicts of interest where they have actually ward with Mr Kuštovic and tried to contribute to bringing together, in accordance with the Corruption Prevention Strategy by 2020, to improve him, to make him even better, and how they were actually approaching, barriers and walls. Well, that's really tragic. Here, that minister is no longer a minister, ah, which is why I wonder, but unfortunately, the law was not passed as they imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149594	Thank you. There's a colleague, Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149595	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, this case of Finland reminded me of a similar case perhaps not the same materially difficult and perhaps the consequences and manner of behaviour of the Prime Minister at the time were not the same but the attitude and attitude towards the institution, according to the Croatian Parliament, towards Croatian citizens is the same. It is about when former HDZ Prime Minister Sanader refused to show his watches, too, asked him to show the watches, to say how much they were worth, he refused, refused to communicate at all, and he also resented the people in the commission, of course later in the political relations that took part in it, there was the most prominent current constitutional judge Josip Leko. It's a similar situation as it is with Finland right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149596	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149597	Yes, that's what the principle is the same everything else are nuances, again, but look constantly accusing Mrs. Novakovic of some members of the ruling majority that she is going out to the media, that of doing the media case the same way as we were accused of sticking those labels to corruption. But it's actually Prime Minister Plenkovic who's working on it, so if you want to do it now, it's the star he's saying. Because that thing wouldn't have been withdrawn in the media at all, nor would it have been written about it, nor would it have been said that a man in silence, as well as a million officials here, who get a request for the delivery of some paperwork, hand over the paperwork, the commission on this matter has made some kind of decision or such a thing and it's settled. It wasn't supposed to be a media case at all, a media sensation. In fact, they made it a media sensation. And why won't they give those documents? I want to believe that it's more force and display power than that there's something hidden that shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149598	Okay, thank you. Comrade Vučetić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149599	Dear colleagues, you mentioned one key concept, which is the concept of political power. However, this political power can be defined in different ways, and the most primitive is Hopsov, and I once said that Hops seemed to have settled permanently in the Republic of Croatia, which is that power is perceived as the current means of achieving a future visible good. It is interesting that when it comes to parliamentary democracy, it is unfortunate that the current funds appear as parliamentary deputies. Yes, and when you take advantage of it, you instrumentalize Parliamentarians to achieve some sort of material good, then that's what it says about your understanding of politics and the public of what's public good. I agree with you and this to say that this missing entity is because we don't know who it is to decide, but it kind of reminds us of that debate about the Istanbul Convention when gender ideology has turned a lot of experts on invisible beings and now we have experts on the missing entity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149600	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149601	Right fellow, it's a pathetic society where everything has its price, and nothing of value, even people, Parliamentarians, when they have the price, when everything knows the price, and nothing at all, is worth anything, and the worst thing is when politicians in power in a position of power get into this one shrinks would say "omnipotent delirium," when they think they're all-powerful, that there's nothing that can stop them, that their time is limitless, that their power is something that will last forever. Rarely, they are vaccinated by it, and unfortunately through closer history we have numerous not only politicians but also some prominent businessmen who have not resisted this, I will say so, calling it power and carrying this diagnosis in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149602	Thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149603	Thank you very much. Fellow Voter, what was important in your debate, you have tried to point out once again that our proposal does not have any party feature. So our proposal is just trying to come up with a situation where no pressure will be put on the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest. So tomorrow on this exemption will be able to be sought by some SDP, a HNS male, today by HDZ, but our proposal goes in that direction that there is no party feature. Unfortunately, experience has so far shown that, when it comes to conflict of interest, it is much more common in the genetic code of HDZ, here is a colleague, Stričak, who will know yesterday that in prison, the former HDZ chief of the Zagorje municipality of Lobor, because he damaged his municipality and the Red Cross by 400,000 kuna. Therefore, unfortunately experience and practice show this, however, the only inadmissible verdict against the bribery and corruption party was brought against the HDZ, it is known.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149604	Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149605	Exactly, colleague Jovanovic, we have a problem in law enforcement and in practice we have noticed that the law is missing, we have a doubt and we cannot resolve it because there is no legal solution and strict regulation. And we offer a solution, but the ruling majority will not give us support for our bill, and we cannot give a solution without them. They don't even want to offer their solution or talk about it, but they don't want to materialize it, so it's crazy. And we are paid here to pass laws, to offer solutions, and when we see that we have a problem with applying some law, to have some kind of legal rift, to remove it if we already see it. Well, we can't pretend blind that we have a problem that we can't solve because the law has a hole. So we're paid to pass laws, if they have a hole, to patch holes, so give us gentlemen from HDZ to patch up this hole or give us your solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149606	Thank you. My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149607	Thank you. Well, fellow Members, I agree with you that it is necessary to allow institutions to work as best and quality as possible, and among other things, when you listed these institutions, you mentioned the child's attorney. A year ago, two people appeared in a case called Bajsic. Bajsic means a minor whom SDPs have been running around in their meetings, used in campaigns, underage children, represented as children's minister, and then used in their domestic accounts. So you read through the portals, that his classmate, who was otherwise the SDP county councilwoman, urged him to write anonymous letters against SDP's deputy mayor, SDP's deputy mayor against SDP's mayor and so on, so let's shed some light on that. I don't know where it's come to this day that the public doesn't know who's who in that campaign and the internal campaigns in the SDP used it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149608	Here's your colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149609	My dear colleague, I don't know about this case, I don't know if the Ombudsman has responded to this question, if that's the case, I apologize here on behalf of the SDP if you say it's wrong to use or abuse children for promiscuous pre-election purposes, or for any political purposes, but while we're at it, let's just get everyone distracted in your backyard, give the president a little warning that it's not right to jump out of kindergarten every day, in schools where in such a perfiduous way children are abused in pre-election, not only for pre-election but daily political purposes, it's not appropriate and it's really not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149610	We continue with an individual debate, colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149611	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's something I want to say about this bill, although I don't see the need for this kind of bile or attempt to touch everyone in the story of the Law of Prevention of Conflicts of Interest Proposed Amendments, because here's the SDP said that he practically solved through it all the doubts that had not been solved long ago when they were bringing the previous one, so it's known exactly when a certain move should be made. We are at the position spoken by the president of the club, that it exists now in the law, such a possibility, and that the president of the commission is also given the authority to make a move if she is already going into a certain procedure or not to withdraw it if he does not consider it necessary to withdraw it. I don't see any reason for this much bile and not particularly boasting, we've heard boasting. When HDZ elected the commission, unfortunately in the same way as the SDP chose its own, so HDZ did not then vote for that commission, the SDP did not vote for this commission, And of course, you didn't vote, of course, and the first sentence of the current SDP president was that they didn't want an independent commission, they installed a woman who was a friend of the prime minister's media adviser. [[/Blowback from the bench: He voted.]] So, that beginning of doubt over some time in the SDP has evaluated until today we hear all praise for this commission's work and self-critics why and then we weren't at that level of doubt i.e. commendation as we were at the level of doubt then and we hear all the reasons why someone needs or doesn't need it, but it was mostly one prepared political activity to get SDP to shake off all the problems that bother him and find all some actors on the other side here within HDZ to accuse him of preventing the work of the commission, although I don't think that, every day he does, they come to work, have their cases, neatly, now much more neatly than a long time before he publishes his decisions and logs from his sessions that haven't been for a while as long as I remember and I don't see why someone would say that the commission doesn't work, neatly doing his job. Then when it doesn't exactly stand, then we put pressure on it because the media something is said, but if on the other hand the media is saying something, if it's not pressure, it's welcome, we're happy with all of it and the story of the Committee of Conflict of Interest continues to flow through and for a longer, longer period. The MPs used to oversee themselves, so it wasn't good, then we said it would be done by professionals, so it would be better. And let's go back and say at some point and say SDP we're all clean, no one among us is problematic, but if someone is already ex, but those who are former in HDZ, if they're constantly, in fact not ex, they're always in progress, they should always be put as an example. How many SDP ministers were in conflict of interest? Is that too much to worry about? I don't think so, so there were at least 6-7, here and Mr. Maras is watching me and he was in conflict of interest and not once, twice, or I don't know Mr. Branko Grčić or Mr. Lalovec or Mr. Miljanic or Mr. Jakovina or Varga, Varga or Mr. Kotromanović, flew on a private plane, privately, from some of whom they wanted somewhere and what we're going to do now, whether these people were worse than ministers or they were so far out of the law that they did not know what to keep marking them as you're doing to this side. I didn't get the impression that there was then on your side all right, no. And now you say, but they were exes, we listen to MOST, and their president doesn't mind if he was in a conflict of interest, a ruled conflict of interest. Then we hear an attack on the president, and even the SDP presidential candidate, just after he's finished his prime minister's duty, he's found himself in a potential conflict of interest, and what now, says the chairman of the commission hears that you've been 30 days, but if you were 15, then you haven't written any kind of solution, someone puts their own managerial roles or some of their own roles on some law firm and we're doing business and so we've concluded, that the presidential candidate isn't doing the timeline, it's not long enough in the conflict of interest, so the conflict of interest also has a time limit because if you were 30 days then you'd been, but it doesn't say in the law, imagine that the commission has a role to evaluate and now someone's estimated, say Mr. Maras on some case that he's now active that he should have resigned because he's driving faster than he's allowed, but when the president of the SDP's not drivinging alcohol, I won't say he't say he's in alcohol. Do we agree? It's this fight against corruption and high moral, ethical principles. Shall we agree on that? I think so. Why would he? He's the president of the SDP, and when you're in a party, then you're allowed everything, you can do anything. The road, here's Mr. Maras liked to go to Las Vegas, I heard he went to see a boxing match, that he didn't go no... but the commission found no reason and to act and ask him for example. where you were, what you were doing there. That was justified. Was it nice or not? He knows that about himself. And now we come to a solution offered by the SDP, the first mention that something will happen in some case the SDP says, and no, no, the Assembly Committee on Selection and Appointment has to decide who it is to decide who needs to be excluded or not. Peja Grbin comes out solemnly announcing such news. Of course, HDZ is in the same situation again, we interpret that there is enough in the law of the place for that person to recognize and we further state that there is an example where someone has already taken an exception in the same similar or some kind of most similar case, and that is the former president I say in great respect of SDP. She took it out because she figured it out or realized she was in a neighbor's case with someone she was supposed to be judging. There, that's enough. And you say, no, the law doesn't say it, she remembers it herself, let's go change the law. It doesn't say, but it's off-limits. And now we get to this situation he says, and what if she doesn't, now there's a high court that needs to be settled, well, then he'll want to. Is that what we've come to, gentlemen? And as for the reasons, you wrote them in the first item, so under all five numbers, you wrote all the other reasons in that fifth. So there's no reason you won't be able to exclude yourself. And everyone, so there's no such thing as an exception. And, of course, the exception is we've heard some examples of the chief, but here we have a president of the SDP County Organization, when you're going to replace him, will you change him? In conflict of interest, the cases sent forward have been ruled. I make deals with my companies as chief. Will you change it? Does he look like corruption to you or doesn't he? Mr. Maras, from your constituency. I think it's something very negative for you. Well, I don't have to remind you what you should do. So you're not interested, the mayor of the municipality that I'm with with his companies writes here in the Justice Committee for conflict of interest, punished not by a small figure, by almost 30,000 kuna and sent an object a little further. That doesn't bother you? It's easy that he's a colleague as well as the chairman of the SDP County Committee, and what do we do now? Is SDP then what counterpart Hajdukovic said to us, should I now conclude or read you testimony from today's trial? Gentlemen, you're hunting down some of the situations that are very applicable to you. I don't want us to discuss it here in this way, but we can't keep our mouth shut when you've been trying to say all afternoon that these others aren't working. I say, you're not good, you're not making any moves, and you're saying it's you who are going to fight corruption. In what way? By letting you do everything. I don't agree with that. So this story will certainly be a vote on Friday, probably, I hope it will be. We'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149612	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure and we have four replicas. First injure of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149613	Thank you very much. In 238, he was injured, so Mr. Boric is not telling the truth. And there is, there is, Mr. Bukarica, there is, there is. First, I didn't get twice that I was in conflict of interest but only once, and the reason was because I worked for free in a board of state institutions. And second, last time I told you, I wasn't at a boxing match because I left Las Vegas before, and if I was in Las Vegas, I wouldn't have the money to buy a ticket like some HDZ ministers go to four or five games. So that's the difference between SDP and HDZ. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: colleague Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149614	Comrade Maras, thank you. So the Rules of Procedure aren't hurt. We're moving on. You're on your way. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149615	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric has touched many things in his debate, but it is amazing that he realizes that some cases in the commission were done as they were for some SDP people he now mentioned at the end and does not notice that we encourage the commission to work. It means, unlike HDZ, when it does its job, it tells me that someone made a mistake or didn't make a mistake, we say okay, you do a good job, you keep doing it, so people are going to figure out what kind of conflict of interest is. My conflict of interest, I already said that six months ago was that I was in the Governing Council of the Investments and Competitiveness Agency, that's my conflict of interest, so I worked for free for Croatia. Here I will be five more times if Croatia needs to be in conflict of interest, not your colleagues and colleagues driving five times, six times in Moscow for games, sitting on the shoulders of ministers, cheering and asking God who's at the end He paid you all the bills. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: A fellow Maras, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149616	Thank you, colleague Maras. Here's an answer more. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149617	Comrade Maras, I don't know why you're angry if you're told that you were in conflict of interest because I said and set a lot of examples and I didn't realize that something happened, except we said that it was a question of some ethical norms and morals. And you said I'd still be in conflict six more times if I needed for Croatia for any agency you'd sacrifice, right? So, so, but we have people who are different and I've led them, some of them from the SDP. They didn't sacrifice themselves that way... in a different way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we're discussing here right now, and we shouldn't have this topic of debate, of hitting on each other, of who's on which side because I said long ago that there's no sign of a party. If you're gonna do something like you, do it yourself. But this whole day or all afternoon labeling has caused me to say it because if we're going to solve the question, the commission has to work every day so let this story or finish or let them say we're not able to end it for some of our personal thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149618	Comrade Bauk, here you go. You asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149619	I wanted to draw attention because of the record and the historical truth, to Mr. Boric's attention that we also participated in the proposal of members on the Committee on Elections and Designs and in the selection of members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest and that some members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest were elected with a slightly larger number of votes because we supported them, and this non-participation concerned only the second round for the selection of the chairman of the commission when only one candidate was to be voted. Therefore, it was not exactly as it was in 2013 around, with HDZ, but we estimated that some candidates, especially those who have worked so far in the commission, deserve our trust. What is problematic, only the fact that the Parliament regularly, with a large majority of votes, accepted the Report of the President of the Commission and then instead of confirming her mandate to de facto replace her.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149620	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149621	Comrade Bauk, we've heard from Mrs. Bauk here. The vote that we are in power, i.e. that we know how to rule and that we have brutally replaced everyone. I remember when I was here the opposition, no, and I remember how the SDP brutally replaced everyone. Whether or not we accepted in some previous stimuli, brutally anything that could be replaced. So there were no agencies, some institutions where the SDP didn't find a way to change the laws either by the administrative council or by the number or by the so-called SDP. So no one survived, and that's some facts and facts. And now you're telling us about you being something or that we've done something that you've contributed to. You didn't contribute to Mrs. Devereaux. Novakovic and I read you one more time what Mr Bernardic said. They don't want an independent commission, and you're repeating it today. They installed a woman, careful, they installed a woman who's a friend of the prime minister's advisor for... Are you still behind those words of the president? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149622	Thank you, time. Comrade Sabine, come in. Voter, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149623	A friend of the prime minister's media advisor. It doesn't bother me. That statement is unnecessarily focused. Now let me ask you a question. The prime minister for the Croatian ambassador to London appointed the prime minister's wedding godfather. Prime Minister's cousin named Director of the Croatian Tourist Board in Munich. Plenkovic's uncle entered the Board of Nature Park Biokovo in early September last year. Plenkovic's brother-in-law became director of commercial affairs at Dubrovnik Airport. Do you think it's a conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149624	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149625	My colleague, Glasovac, I think there are many of these solutions already made on all these issues, if I'm not mistaken, I just need to read it, but it doesn't suit you politically because there's nothing about what you insinuate, no. No, but I say it one more time, you were allowed everything, and you brought your wife into some cabinet. And a wife, or a godfather, like, no, i.e. Like Mr. Maras, he's not the best man... Is that right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who was your chief of staff? Good isn't the best man, then okay, acquaintance, party friend, whatever you want. A gentleman from Sisak or wherever he was from. So it's all someone's been working through all these systems, so there's nothing unknown about us now that we're surprised at each other, that's what they're throwing at each other today. But trying to insinuate that the president is something or that the Prime Minister is something, and that you're something super honest and pure, it doesn't stand. Here, just a little example. And we didn't even scratch.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149626	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, fellow Striker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149627	Thank you. Comrade Boric, you were right to wonder if it was the SDP who could stick to someone's labels. So here's to the example again, the north of Croatia. 3 officials, then parliamentary representatives and criminal acts. Abuse of position, criminal acts against official duty, criminality of counterfeiting of official documents. So are the SDPs the ones who can call someone, not see in their own backyard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149628	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149629	Thank you very much. Comrade Striker, of course they're not and I don't know why they're using that sport at all, but well, their way of communication, mostly, it's more or less what they can do. But I'll also go back to the vote on some board members on Friday. When he resented what he did and there. I remember in 2012, in early 2012, when the SDP voted on by a man who had been removed from his immunity right before, he was the head of the municipality, I will not say which, too, I think is Goric, it doesn't matter and he can become a member of several committees. And agriculture here and there. It doesn't matter, SDP can do it. Right? It's so important because these on the Committee on Agriculture don't look at the laws, they're just discussing the damages and the elemental disasters. Right? They don't look at the laws, and they don't make any conclusions about those laws, just the Legislative Committee. All right. We can agree. But it just doesn't suit you. And the fact that you started breaking unwritten rules isn't something that leads to good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149630	Thank you, fellow Boric. The last debate is the individual debate of counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149631	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I reported briefly because I do not have another mechanism to speak as president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the strategy to combat corruption, and this is a topic that needs to be heard about what the National Council is doing. Therefore, the National Council is monitoring the implementation of the strategy and the fight against corruption, which is currently in 2015-2020, along with the action plan to combat corruption, which was adopted for 2019/20. and this action plan was also a topic of work on the National Council. What I am saying is that the action plan adopted for this two-year period is currently resting on prevention and points out that in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia, it is crucial to prevent conflicts of interest, transparency and the right to access information. In line with this and the National Council discussed on several occasions the subject, I have the minutes of the 24th and 26th sessions, so to make it all the legions of artis, so these are not my personal views, these are the conclusions of the National Council which, at its 24th session, concluded that it welcomes the preventive orientation of the action plan for 2019/20. and invites the Ministry of Justice, who is the holder of the action plan strategy, not to be an absolute framework, but to try and upgrade all measures to all those activities that will mean a more successful prevention of corruption, and in particular the part that will increase transparency and ensure, I stress, the normal functioning of all independent bodies that are the holders of action plan measures. Following this, the 26th session specifically discussed the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest where the conclusion of the National Council insists on ensuring all necessary conditions for the full independent work of all bodies of the operators and the anti-corruption strategy including the Special Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. On several occasions, the National Council also considered the attempt to amend the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and expressed dissatisfaction with the attempts to mutilate the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, in particular by the controversial insistence that the Commission cannot discuss the principles of the duties set out in Article. 5. Therefore, if we care about coming out of a circle of corrupt countries in the next period, then, in accordance with both the conclusions and recommendations of the National Council, and the debate of many here today, we must ensure that all independent bodies work smoothly, and that is, above all, the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149632	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, final colleague Sasa Djujic, and after that, colleague Bauk, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149633	Thank you very much. So very short colleagues and colleagues, so I was encouraged by the debate of my colleague, Boric, so-called squid syndrome, so throw in ink and cloud the water and then we all turn out to be the same, which is not true. So, my colleague Boris mentioned former SDP ministers who are in conflict of interest, it is very important to say here, but a colleague, Maras, in part, said for himself, it is very important to say why these ministers were in conflict of interest after the commission's decision, because they were in the administrative councils of state-owned companies in which the government appointed them not knowing that they should not be there or that they should not be in more than 2 administrative councils and commissions. And it is a potential conflict of interest by mistake if it is at all a conflict of interest because it is, whose interest would be assumed there, public in front of the public, unlike HDZ ministers, and because of that we are saying it which are in potential conflicts of interest for personal gain, so it is not the same for you whether you are in conflict of interest because you are, I do not know, appointed to 3 administrative councils, and you are allowed by law to be only in 2 and there has been appointed by the Government or if as an official, you are restituting your own land, which is thus 10 times increasing the price and obtaining millions of property, which is not the same thing, and that is what fellow Boric is always trying to say something to you forever, we are not. No, it's not the same thing and it needs a clear word, it can't be the same, it's not the same if someone under suspicious circumstances Mercedes you can't prove, then you're driving with him for a vacation, and it's potentially a conflict of interest because it just got a boost from the vault where you run that entrepreneur you got Mercedes and if you're appointed by the government to some public firm that you work there free of charge like your colleague Maras said, it's not the same thing. But there are some bright examples in HDZ, just a fellow Boris, so in his municipality, the chief, his predecessor paid himself half a million kuna from the community account, he raised a man's money from the account and put it in his pocket, and then he discovered a state audit, then he said he was giving himself loans to buy some documents on black that would be used in municipal disputes. And my colleague, Boric, as responsible HDZ, came into his municipality, banged his hand on the table and said, "No, you're not gonna be the head of the municipality anymore, now I'm gonna be the head of the municipality because I don't take that crime." And that's, say, a bright example. Here, I would like Plenkovic to be like that, that he slaps his hand on the table and says you can't and here because now there's an election in HDZ, and Butkovic said he's not going, and then I appeal to my fellow Boric to run for president of HDZ, and here he would certainly kick his hand on the table and tell Kuštević and the others you won't because, on the example of his municipality, he showed that this is how it works, and here I am calling him from this place to run for HDZ President, we will at least support him from the Primor-Gorski County in that way, but what's important is not all the same and it's not all the same, and HDZ is trying to throw it black and the word we're all the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149634	Arsen Bauk, on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here at the end, let's get back to the metrics first. How and why did this bill come about? It came because the Committee for Conflict of Interest fell into a stalemate position brought by the Prime Minister, although it is not solely his fault, it is not his sole culprit, including in the procedure of the motion to exclude the President of the Commission, because of its alleged links with Agrokora, and the reason he did so according to the president of the HDZ Club is that he saw that the Administrative Court collapsed the commission's decision in the case of Mrs. Martin Dalic because it was not up to Mrs. Dalic's exception. Novakovic, at the request of Mrs. Nekatić. In that judgment, Dalic also ordered the Commission to act in a way that the request for exemption should be delivered to the body that controls them and that the procedure continue after the decision has been taken by that authority. All that we hear today that this needs a commission, etc., would be an act in accordance with a court ruling and Mrs. Novakovic committed a violation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and exposed herself to criticism and, of course, the danger of the procedure then ending again in a court-law that would be negative for the commission. In order to implement the ruling of the Administrative Court in Zagreb which would not further cause legal and other dilemmas, it is necessary to supplement the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in such a way as to determine which body to decide on the exemption and as we have seen in this judgment, it is not just a commission and these are only two solutions possible. The supervisory authorities are either the Croatian Parliament in terms of accepting the report annually from the Commission or the administrative court which supervises the decisions of the commission if they are initiated against the administrative dispute. It's about the measure of law. As far as the context goes, it's a little bit more serious. So we have several attempts at discrediting the Commission that the heads of the Commission who are orchestrated and encouraged most by the Prime Minister who, by his political statements, degrades the role of the Commission, tries to reduce and degrade their powers and, in particular, what is worrying, challenge the right to give an opinion or make decisions on the violation of Articles. 5 Laws on preventing conflicts of interest, so-called the principles of action, given that those principles are not subject to penalties, the only penalty that an official has is that one independent said that he did not act in accordance with the principles of action, without penalties unless the penalty is considered to be a single publication. And when that commission decides, to those who answer, they are most often citizens, they may consider the commission right or wrong, but it is good that there are principles in which the commission guides us to stick. As for Mr. Boric's statement that we replaced everything after the authorities took over, that's where he got confused. Therefore, there is a Law on the procedure for the transfer of powers, which stipulates that all officials, a fairly broad circle of officials appointed, put their mandates at their disposal and that within 60 days the Government accepts or does not accept it. So this is about the law that's btw. adopted during the Government of Jadranka Kosor as part of a European package, which is precisely prescribed by officials to change after the takeover of power. What we did and what we're going to do again, I immediately announced, this repolitisation of the state exactly in a way that ministerial assistants turn into officials so that we have officers who came as politicians, we're going to change it again because it's a fraud and politicization of the service and in some way a cowardly egg that tries to leave it just in case so we have "your people" in the state administration. And we'll discuss it tomorrow. We estimate that the High Court is exactly the body that should decide in this case, because eventually again the High Administrative Court comes to the request to launch a administrative dispute on the decision of the Commission. If someone in their application would state the reasons why it is necessary to exclude a member of the commission, the decision of the High Administrative Court itself may be also a guideline and guidance to the committee in the event of the decision being taken, because we can really discuss the measure, whether it is logical that the elected chairman of the committee, chosen only by the votes of the parliamentary majority, is thus trying to discredit and that the scale is so low in the conflict of interest of the members of the commission, because then it is really very difficult to start working normally afterwards. The Prime Minister was well aware of the current morning that we had all the questions that the SDP club had asked him, all the seven questions that he had asked about the subject of corruption, of which 4 were why you had replaced them and those ministers, and we counted them exactly as we did and addressed the request for their impeachment to the Parliament and he was having this debate, it was obviously accepted and acted before the debate itself and the vote in the Assembly, so that he saw it well and we believe that we were well aware that he did not have any answers that had been asked him, probably because those answers were obvious and he should not have hoped that we would stop questioning it, there is no secret on our part, because we were not defending ministers until the last one, and then when there was no more, then he had to change them for himself. I would also like to conclude that I can absolutely accept the request, appeal or position of the Prime Minister that his government should not be glued to the label of corruption. The label is a small and too mild word, namely, stick the label and then stick it without a big one, it's easy to stick the label, so the label is easy to paste, it's easy to take off. That correlation between this government and corruption could be called not a label but a diagnosis. I, of course, belong to those eternal optimists who say that perhaps this diagnosis is not permanent, that it can be cured and removed but that the therapy that the Prime Minister is currently working on at this point is not good because he is additionally stubborn about the Helsinki case and this plane, in fact sending a message that he will not respect independent institutions if he does not think he should and if his art in drawing is clearly not understood, because he drew it to them, if they do not understand that art, it is quite one such thing, I would say, obviously, that kind of art is not for everyone's eyes because they obviously did not understand it, if he drew it, they did not understand what it was about. Therefore, this type of reaction to independent institutions is not good and this therapy the Prime Minister has in the case of his government will not produce results. As for who he was when he was in conflict of interest, I would still do a little right for all of you. So, I think that even members of the Government of Zoran Milanovic who received some fines because they were in certain bodies and they were not meant to be, and that was at the beginning of the application of this law, when something that had been found before continued and then in that state they had some, though they were mildly sanctioned, it was not a conflict of interest, so it was a violation of this law but it was not a classic conflict of interest, as for example, the President of the Parliament was not in conflict of interest when he was punished for some act of some kind of company that was at the time. He was also here from the opposition benches at the time objecting to the commission's work, but it was something that should have been instructed to act as officials and not to repeat such things. So the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is not about citizens, it's only about officials. If the citizen does something, he won't be punished, and if the official does something, he'll be punished. When an official becomes an ordinary citizen, he will not be charged because it is a fine, therefore, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest applies only to officials, he has been instructed by officials to act and his good application can increase the confidence of citizens in public authorities, in politics but may also be a relief to officials because, in the current work of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, the trust of citizens, the trust of the public, it is a credit to the former chairman of the commission but also to these and when such a body says that you have not been in conflict of interest, then those who may have doubted the start-up still believed that you did not, independently, work on a member of the SDP, HDZ, independent or some of the other parties, therefore this commission is important, this institution is also important, it may be an instrument of increasing citizens' confidence in politics but also the best instrument in the hands of the bad player does not give the result, that it would be thrown in front of all parties. I'm sure this can be compared to the pearl and I hope and I want to believe that we can't compare to this other one, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149636	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 654 and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The continuation of the session is tomorrow at 9 pm and 30 minutes, with the Proposal for a Law on the Compensation of Workers of Plobest d.d. and then 61 laws. SESSION Interrupted at 18.33 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-25-0.u149637	Final proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 664. The proposer is the SDP Representatives' Club, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which the parliamentary working bodies do not support. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal did not receive the required number of votes 76 was against, 1 abstention and 40 votes in favour.
