ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179028	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. We move to the agenda points foreseen by the plan. - Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1907/2006 second reading, P.Z.E. No. 685 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Mr. Zeljko Plazonic, State Secretary of Health, would you like to give us an additional explanation? Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179029	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this law and this legislative proposal prescribes obligations relating to harmonised information related to emergency health interventions and preventive measures for importers and further users who place mixtures on the market as dangerous and based on their effects on human health or on their physical effects. The way in which such information is delivered by electronic means is also prescribed through the centralised portal of the European Chemicals Agency, and the obligations of the HZZ to make available information on mixtures of the Centre for the Control of Toxicity of the Institute for Medical Research and Medical Medicine are also laid down and the costs of submitting information on mixtures carried out by importers and their further users are determined. Compared to the text of the law in the first reading, minor nomotechnical changes were made in accordance with the proposals of the Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament and the text was additionally nomotechnically edited. Thank you very much, so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179030	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, independent lists of respected colleagues, Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179031	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. Here we are talking about the packaging of substances and mixtures based on the EU regulation because I believe and I last said that substances, mixtures in Croatia are not controlled, and I am surprised by the statements of the Croatian Government, mainly as regards glyphosate, that these substances which are toxic, which are linked to the GMO products mainly Monsanta and other companies, are Austria even banned from that substance. In us we are allowed in America in the United States and in other countries we have a number of lawsuits of people who are suffering from tumors and other diseases regarding these substances, simple seeds that are being treated essentially nothing, grass simply can't do anything. And it's been proven i.e. The World Health Organization warns in 2013 and before that it is a toxic substance. But Minister Austria, as I said, their lower parliament has banned the use of glyphosate. Who controls that import basically? They're packing up and packing up everything like you're packing up for us, and that's why we've got an increase in the number of tumors mainly in agriculture and plantations, and we've got uncontrollable funds. How are you going to end it? If we are equal in the EU, Austria has banned, even in the EU they have spoken for a long time. Discussed and considered banning gliphosate in 2023. What Croatia is doing is making a statement from the minister a few weeks ago that it will not ban it in agriculture, while other EU countries ban it. Can you say what you are doing on the protection of health on the protection of our beekeepers who have the ability to produce eco honey, but we are being treated with areas and these products that are contaminated by such compounds with herbicides, pesticides that other countries prohibit, and I mentioned in this case Austria? So you signed this regulation essentially while other EU countries started to respect that regulation, here's an example of Austria. In the Republic of Croatia, the substance is allowed and the Minister of Agriculture says not to ban the substance. Why in Croatia can this harmful substance be used, transported, imported, which is exclusively related to Monsanto and the companies that produce glyphosate, of course other companies that use this harmful substance? But you are absolutely doing nothing but protecting people and protecting health, and you are absolutely not controlling it. And even through our products and meat, even the breeding of pork, this substance is fed to humans by this mixture, mostly soybean, how do you control it? Is that controlled in the Republic of Croatia? I have also given the law on the ban on glyphosate, but the government has given a negative opinion, I don't see why she gave a negative opinion when I repeat it, we once again when the World Health Organization warns of this substance and you simply copy these documents to this House, who knows what you've packed for us in this package of desert regulations, and basically you're not absolutely protecting our citizens' health. You do not protect the health of our citizens because if you were protecting the health of our citizens, then the government on the law on the ban on glyphosate I gave, would give at least a positive opinion or would stress that they are considering what is also being considered in the European Parliament, were long-standing debates. I will also then present information on how much the countries, in the individual debate, as much as what happened in the EU, as the World Health Organization says is harmful, but we are passing laws on dangerous substances, transport, imports and in fact you can do whatever you want in us. In us this substance is still used and in large quantities, the Minister of Agriculture says that she does not want to consider it, that it is good for the treatment but for the health of people it is obviously not good. Here I expect that soon my draft law on the ban on glyphosate will come to the assembly and that parliamentary deputies will do what the European, pardoned Austrian parliament has banned from glyphosate. I believe that we can do this and that we can protect the health of our citizens and that we can resist Monsanta and their products that control from seeds and control and treatment because these are means resistant seeds and plants to glyphosate and everything around them becomes black, the country. If you've ever seen when you use a cidocor, in us it's... Nothing's there, it's not growing and the potatoes are growing, it's been grown normal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore believe that if Austria can, if we are a member of the EU, if other countries are considering, that we should also prohibit these dangerous things because health is above all. We must protect and produce our honey beekeepers, they also oppose, and many others oppose the import of such substances. So can you explain to us what you're doing for a ban here in this case and other pesticides, herbicides, dangerous vents, who controls it? Is anyone controlling it? What's that control? If there are, I know that this is used by us perfectly normally, except for the introduction of some kind of restriction, but those restrictions simply don't control anyone. Dangerous substances are what needs to be banned, what we need to look at other EU countries and I expect from you and this government, and since the government will not accept that, that the law I referred to 2 months ago, the government gave a negative opinion that you would accept the law prohibiting the use of glyphosate in the Republic of Croatia for the sake of the health of our citizens, here I expect you to give me answers, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179032	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Vlatko Kopic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179033	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This law implementing the EC Regulation No. Since 16 December 2008 the European Parliament and the Council, on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures to be amended, shall complement Directive 67/548 and Directive 1999/45 and shall amend and amend Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 lays down the competent authority and tasks of the competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006. Since 16 December 2006 the European Parliament and the Council, on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures to be amended, shall complement Directive 67/548 and Directive 1999/45 and shall amend and amend Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008. 1907/2006. The law has changed twice so far in 2013 and 2018 to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis. Regulation 1272/2008 harmonizes previous EU legislation with a system known as GHS or a globally harmonised system of classification and labelling of chemicals, a UN system to identify dangerous chemicals and inform users of these hazards. Many countries worldwide have adopted a globally harmonised system of classification and labelling of chemicals and are now being used as a basis for international and national regulations on the transport of dangerous products. This transport shall identify HZZ as a designated body in the Republic of Croatia for implementation. 45. Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1037/2006 (OJ L 298, 30.10.2009, p. 1). 1272/2008, according to which importers and further users who place mixtures on the EU market will supply such information. This legislative proposal lays down the obligation for importers and further users who place mixtures on the market of the Republic of Croatia to act in accordance with Article 1(1). 45 paragraph 3 of Regulation No 12/72 of 2008 as well as with the provisions of Annex 8. Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/542 This Regulation requires industry to classify, label and package dangerous chemicals before placing on the market precisely with a view to protecting workers, consumers and the environment. The proposal also contains, of course, infringement provisions related to the obligations of importers and further users who place mixtures on the market of the Republic of Croatia. Thus, Article 12 provides for a fine of 50,000 kuna to 100,000 kuna for a violation of a legal person who is a supplier or a further user if he does not supply all information or provide certain information which is missing and which is not entirely true. This legislative proposal will facilitate the transmission of information on the composition of the mixture and support for statistical analysis of chemical poisoning related cases, all in order to protect public health. From all this, the HDZ Representatives Club believes that this final bill is good and will support its further procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179034	Thank you, colleague Kopic. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179035	Thank you very much. Dangerous substances and mixtures in the Republic of Croatia are used while other countries ban it and the EU is discussing it, and we have now brought this proposal here. This regulation that we will simply raise our hands and no one will do anything about it. The World Health Organization, or its International Cancer Research Agency, announced in March 2015 that herbicide glyphosate is likely to be carcinogenic and more recent studies suggest. However, tomorrow is St. Peter's Day. Ambrosia beekeeper's day, tomorrow I will find another way to warn the public about and in the protection of health, the protection of plants, the protection of bees that riot beekeepers simply that substance, glyphosate, is simply a bad influence. endangers both beekeepers and organic honey production, as well as organic production in the Republic of Croatia because we are a state that has 700,000 hectares of unprocessed land, agricultural land preserved. And now Austria is defending it, you're getting to know the esteemed secretaries, they're putting a ban on it, and of course the Tribal and the RH would ban it, what's harmful, which is dangerous for people. If this substance is dangerous, I do not see any reason why the minister says it has not been proven so far when we know that new studies on the potential for the impact of glyphosate on health, especially on the impact on the environment, because the studies commissioned by the network of environmental organisations to protect Europe's friends show that the traces of glyphosate can be found in people's bodies. So they're in research so this in 18 countries in the laboratory in Germany means the results are, they're ordered to study urine samples collected in 18 European countries. The results show that gliphosate traces can be found in samples from all countries, that means Croatia as well. When all collected samples were taken into account, traces of glyphosate were found in as much as 44% of the sample. And here is the key question why Austria defends it, why the EU is discussing it, why, even if Croatia was initially, the European parliamentarians were against it, so they were a little restrained because the lobbys that have these strong Monsanto corporations because it is closely related to the production of Monsanto products and this herbicide because they are resistant to this herbicide, their mixtures and their products, their seeds. For the sake of health protection, as I said because of all of the above, the Republic of Austria has banned the use of this chemical compound. Animal studies also show that in the consumption of glyphosate plants, about 15 to 30 are absorbed in the body of the animal. In the same studies, glyphosate has been shown to be found in the blood and tissues of the animals studied in the process of disintegration of smaller amounts of glyphosate may occur, means numerous consequences, evidence suggests that 1% of glyphosate remains in the body and one week after exposure means that substance. I repeat if Austria could see no reason why not Croatia. And our beekeepers warn of guessing bees because it's dangerous. I therefore believe that we must follow these trends, and not only bring this for in a mixture of dangerous chemicals, herbicides, pesticides, anything not, but the most dangerous of these hebicides that produce means Mosanto, where international agencies warn, where they show worldwide research of health organisations, where studies show that the Herbicides containing glyphosate act as an endocrine switch, and that means secretion of hormone secretion, so here and here, the development of tumors affects and endangers human fertility. It's all the research that's been published. And that's what's being debated, it's really being debated in the EU, in America, and we have a number of lawsuits from people who've been given Mosanto companies, but it's important for them to master the seed and master means by treating and creating the whole world. However, in Croatia, I repeat again, we have the opportunity to ban it. I'm surprised the Minister said in her statement that she has no evidence whatsoever, Minister of Agriculture. I don't know if you've consulted her if she's following up at all what's going on? Our euro MPs were against it for a while, so for a while, held back, and then a time when... it was decided, but it had already gone a long way. I believe that the European Food Safety Authority, which has indicated its critical concern, will also listen to the fact that 8 of the 24 applicants including Monsanto presented a specification for glyphosate which is not supported by toxological assessment, in other words the data of the examination provided by applicants. The companies that produced this substance did not refer to the substances they wanted to sell. In a report by the European Food Safety Authority, 22 holes in evidence, so they even cover up Monsanto and these companies hide where they use this dangerous chemical substance used in herbicides. And not only are there holes in evidence, but key studies are hidden from the public, from the public change. The main conclusions of this security agency of the European Security Agency are the report on... glyphosate based on these unpublished studies made by the industry itself, so they did their own studies and, of course, it is incomprehensible that these unpublished studies shift from publicly available information. I will note that in 2017, the Republic of Croatia was one of the countries which, together with Belgium, Greece, France, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Austria, Slovenia, opposed the extension of the licences for the use of glyphosate. The European Citizens' Initiative, which collected 1.3 million signatures, was then launched to reduce the EU's decision on its use from 15 to 5 years. Unfortunately, Croatia did not join the official list of countries that supported the initiative because it lacked a quota from the prescribed signatures. So I think that all of what I've said, and there's also what's known to be that we have to ban ourselves in the Republic of Croatia what's dangerous for people, animals and what affects people's health, and everything in favour of Monsant and similar companies that push their products, that push their seeds and control over it all. And we must not forget that the production of GMOs is a product that GMOs and glyphosate are closely bound and corporations that produce this. Mostly Monsanto they know what they're doing, and obviously we don't know if you're packing up some regulation of the European Commission, an EU directive, you're packing it up here, you're coming in here and we're pretending, and you haven't done anything but prescribe some regulation, while Austria has accepted this regulation in its parliament but has banned this substance that is dangerous to people's health. The EU has been discussing the problem for years, our minister says it is not a problem, Minister Vukkovic. No matter what the problem is, it doesn't matter. And that's why tomorrow's tomorrow's St. John's Day. Ambrosia protector of beekeepers. I'm going to repeat this proposal again tomorrow, if I have to do it one more time, and I'm going to direct it no matter what the government has negatively given an opinion just to once stand aside from the people, not foreign multinational companies that suck out money and the health of our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179036	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Replica, dear colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179037	... Therefore, the declaration and labelling of the mass and products to be placed on the market shall be discussed. [[Specially enabled.]] But from your debate, I failed to understand, or you are comparing the harmfulness of GMOs and pesticides. I think pesticides are far more harmful especially pesticides that have longer... time decays and accumulates in the soil. The gliophosphate you mention is definitely harmful and is proven to be Non-Hodgkins due to long exposure to gliophosphate. Japan, China, France and Iran may not know that pesticides have been replaced with ducks that eat insects, weeds and simply don't pollute the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179038	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179039	Thank you very much. I hope my fellow MP that you will support this law of mine that the government did not support on the ban on glyphosate. And I agree, and it is connected to the GMO product of large multinational companies and harmful substances as well as to glyphosate as you have said which is long kept in the organism and animal and food products and all areas treated it is dangerous. But mostly here, I'm glad you understand what the whole of Europe and the whole world are saying and that you will support this law that I have given in the procedure, which is a ban on glyphosate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179040	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179041	The Honorable Chairman. I would like to say that here we are discussing the packaging of dangerous substances, but there are substances that are very dangerous and that are packed in ampoules and that are not particularly dangerous or warned about those that are given, what is this about? I'll specifically tell you about the ingredients of the vaccine. So you have aluminium salts in the vaccines, we know the neurotoxicity of aluminium is known, if you give it to rats, inject aluminium, there will be neurological problems with them, motor problems, etc. Unfortunately, no one in this country would dare say that it is a global problem, it is not a question, and it is clear that the formaldehyde that is also essentially poisoned, people are not allowed to consume it, it is also contained in vaccines, and what is very important is that when you say someone orally would swallow aluminium, that aluminium would be secreted from the body to a greater extent, but when you give live aluminium through the injection into the body, then it is not excreted, it remains in the body and actually people are suffering. This is not discussed, so when the poison is given to children in vaccines, then there is no debate about it and as far as European directives are concerned, so the EU allows for glyphosate herbicide. It is known on the basis of many court rulings that it is a poison that is harmful to humans and not to a small extent, as those in the vaccine industry would say, they would say that the side effects are small or negligible, it's not Hodgkin's lymphoma, it's about deaths, it's about thousands of lawsuits. We already have the rightful judgments. Instead of the government banning this glyphosate, the government simply allows the poisoning of our people but what I'm saying is that this government is actually puppetary, it's in the service of Brussels, in the service of the pharmaceutical industry, and therefore it's all that suits the pharmaceutical industry, the government will push it. Chemical industry, herbicides, boom, pharmaceutical industry, boom. The biggest profit, the biggest growth in the market has exactly the vaccine industry, and as much as it's all expensive, I'm going to give you the following example. Can you, Mr. Brkic, Mr. Bulj or a colleague from HDZ who discussed it at the same time, speak to seven people and understand everything they tell you and answer at the same time? The answer's hard. That's impossible. But children of 2 months, 4 months. And six months. vaccines 601+1 and 7 so-called ‘7’ are given. Let's say an antigen suddenly on which children of two months would. I should have given some kind of immune response. How to get a two-month-old kid. which has no developed immunity gives an immune response at the same time to seven different diseases? Well, it's an impossible mission for that child and, of course, a lot of children don't develop immunity or suffer from those diseases they've been vaccinated against, but what's worse, is why aluminum is put into the vaccine and it doesn't say when they give you the vaccine or warn you that they're giving you aluminum is that many of them have thrown away or viruses, which is already dead. Since they were dead, if they put eons in a human organism, they would not cause an immune reaction because they simply would not act aggressively, the body would simply erode them. However, when aluminium is given into the vaccine, aluminium is so-called ‘aluminium’. Reaction enhancer, non-specific immunological or pardon colleague Bulj, if you would like to talk, please go outside and talk if you don't care what I say, thank you. Therefore, aluminium is designed by its nature to cause a non-specific immune response, i.e. to be put into the vaccine. What does that mean in translation? This in translation means that it causes an immune reaction that is not concrete because the body cannot develop, I don't know, antibodies to aluminium, no, the bodies will develop antibodies for something they don't know. Of course, the vaccine industry expects that when an aluminium is injected with 7 of these germs or viruses dead or alive, that the organism will develop antibodies right on top of them. It may want in practice, but it may not, however, what if it develops antibodies to cartilage, which if it develops antibodies to nerves or to myelin or whatever it is or to the lizard, you will have a flood of autoimmune diseases where the organism attacks itself. So right after vaccination, the child starts having problems with the joints, children of all 2 years develop arthritis, or right after vaccination, a month after increased sugar, develop small diabetes, or develop multiple sclerosis, or what is the worst, develop neurological problems, develop autism, stop talking. You have countless testimony from your parents whose children are after the vaccination you're talking about, you have a child at 6 months old. He gets the vaccine, he stops guzzling, he stops following the view, but simply the pharmaceutical industry denies it all. The government doesn't deal with it just because the government said the pharmaceutical industry, all of you parents who say that, you're all lying, you're saying that your child didn't have any ticks before the vaccination, and after the vaccination, you're lying. And finally, worst of all, not just to say encephalitis, brain inflammation, how many children remained immobilized due to the vaccine. They indicate in the side effects that encephalitis is possible but doctors do not warn parents when giving these vaccines to possible side effects. And finally what's going on? Although many side effects have been recognised, although it is evident that they are associated with the vaccine, no compensation is paid. This is actually the main problem we have in Croatia. If any of you MPs have a cow, goat or sheep who loses milk after vaccination, stop giving milk, drop or folding animals you have the right to compensation. However, if your own child gets sick after vaccination or even dies because even the Institute of Health, or the Institute of Public Health, admits that we have fatalities from vaccines every year, the state does not pay any compensation. So the children are injected with poisons, the consequences are terrible, so a bunch of children who are killed, there are no damages, there are no special features that there are no poisons, people don't really know what they're receiving and what they're given, and then we're discussing some kind of European directive that ought to solve some problems. And what doesn't solve problems in a way that forbids, to ban glyphosate monsanto, but only deals with how to pack it essentially poisons. However, however you pack the poison once it is applied, it will have toxic effects, people will get sick, they will get hurt, but it does not interest anyone. You know, the other day, I was in a honey shop writing honey production from 4 countries of origin, Croatia, Ukraine, China and Poland. So we drink, i.e. We eat honey from four countries in the world. You're discussing packaging, you're not discussing content at all. You don't want to know. You are not interested in giving children poisons in vaccines, you are not interested in what is glyphosate in use, which is a large part of our citizens have this poison in their organism, you are not interested in the quality of honey that comes from four countries of the world including China and Ukraine. No, you're only interested in packing, you're in shape. If the form is good, everything is fine and the content of whether people stay alive or dead after it, be poisoned, be sick, not debated, even denied. So as much as you're just an asbestos industry as strong, it's been poisoning people all over the world for decades until this madness finally stops. How many people had to get sick to stop, stop the production of asbestos. And we here with the pharmaceutical industry have much bigger billions, with the chemical industry including these global corporations like Monsant or Bayer, we have enormous money in play, there's no public interest. The EU doesn't care about that, Croatian politicians don't care about that, but there is one candidate in this presidential race that is ahead of us, who cares and who cares about these topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179042	Thank you, Mr. Pernar. Before continuing at the gallery we were joined by students and students of the first high school from Split and their professors and professors, I welcome you and a pleasant stay in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] We have a replica of a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179043	Thank you very much. I'm glad the students will hear my replica, because in the presentation of our colleague Pernar, we have again heard a whole series of completely unprofessional, unfounded, unfounded statements concerning vaccinations. So colleagues and colleagues, dear students and all who follow this work of the Croatian Parliament need to know that vaccination is one of the greatest medical achievements in the history of humanity and that vaccination is a public health intervention that has saved more lives than any other medical intervention. So to speak in this way how he did his colleague Pernar is actually unforgivable because in this way he spreads lies, disinforms the public and encourages some people who will believe in non-vaccination by causing irreparable damage to their children and society.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179044	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179045	Dear Representative Jovanovic, when I speak against the vaccine, I speak on the basis of my personal experience. My first son developed various symptoms after vaccination, developed among other dermatitis, ticks, had speech damage, couldn't say the letter K, he talked about himself in the third person, he didn't say my name is Mathis, he said his name is Mathis etc., etc., but it doesn't interest anyone here. The testimony of all other parents whose children were killed or stopped speaking is also of no interest. For you it's all a lie, for you it's all propaganda, for you all say evil people. And the fact that I sit in the Croatian Parliament, that Mr. Beljak is sitting in the Croatian Parliament, who says Ivana, I have a video of the child talking before the vaccination and where he stops talking after the vaccination. You don't care about that. There are also representatives in HDZ whose children were killed but they are all silent. It's all hidden because of someone's interest, young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179046	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We have a colleague, Pernar, so you don't have to raise your voice very much, we hear you well. Next debate, dear colleague Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179047	Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in this Croatian Assembly, I've really listened to everything and everything. I listened to the polemics when some, I won't mention the professions discussing livestock without ever seeing a single throat, or knowing its performances, or even what certain parts serve except when they get on a plate then, a little oily. But when we talk about herbicides, we need to know that it's a first, first synthesized chemical agent that is... In the '40s, he was able to synthesize and give for use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In what way? Exactly what it is intended for to selectively affect both the weeds and the crops that we need to feed both humans and cattle. Why does it work selectively? We have selective herbicides and unselective. The non-selective herbicides, Mr. Bulj, are the ones you're talking about in total and other ways that destroy all plants on the surface of the earth. These herbicides are used before, during, after sowing, and some even after harvesting, and all these herbicides have a certain, certain time in which they break down and disappear. That's why some of them spray later, some of them rain before, some of them. There's no such thing during the rain. That's exactly what they're meant for. If it wasn't for herbicides that were.../incomprehensible/... so back in the '40s. The year among other things, the first one, we would still live in hunger, our fields would still be full of peasants, who would be sparring on the lines of corn, where their ambrosia would be bigger than the corn next to the other narrow and widest weeds. To talk about herbicides, we have to say that there were no herbicides in Croatia, and there would be hunger in the whole world. Why are some countries more advanced in agriculture and others more lagging behind? Well, it's because some Western countries had first contact with herbicides and chemical substances that they used in agriculture while in Yugoslavia, the wooden plowers were still plowing through your Zagora, as well as my Slavonia. I have to say that there were no Germans in my Slavonia there might be no iron ploughs, but I'm not going to spend this whole story to justify someone's products and advertise, but I'm going to look back at one other thing. It's not a problem if there's something under control, whether it's Bayern or if it's another house, we all know it well, i.e. Someone knows, and someone doesn't. The original people used salts and metals to try to contain the weeds, but it turned out it wasn't very successful. But in order for us to control or not control, we need to know which houses and what products they produce. Besides this Bayern and some other Monsante that I wouldn't advertise too much here, and there's probably something good, maybe something gets through and bad that we're just about to find out. And Goebbels didn't know when he was going to do so much evil, but it's not all that black. You know where black is? It's black where the black market is. Where does the black market come from? The black market comes across our Croatian borders, and that is what cannot be controlled. What is being smuggled into Croatia by criminal acts. I'll tell you a story. There is a company in Slavonia that has 1,500 hectares of Croatian country, and the company is from Serbia. In Slavonia there are very many OPGs whose owners are nursing even fixed households, things owned by paper, and those others who use it are located across the border. These across the border in their weekend visits to their oronical parents, to whom they have transferred these OPGs that receive from the Croatian state incentives, which use unregistered agricultural resources, tractors, vans and trailers, which they use to process the country. And who handles this land? The country is being processed by locals, who are on the social side, in the Croatian budget, and those who use them to process the country do not pay the vouchers so that the Croatian state at least gets something in return. And in the end, and when they produce these grains and what they produce, then, besides all the registers of fiscals, they go through some papers and grains, they disappear. This is the case in the courtyards, the lower courtyards, and it goes in a way to open a gate in the village, because it is not the way, but the tractors and trailers that drive through these courtyards. They come on a scale that's installed once, it's not a constant scale, it's embroidered on a concrete surface, and it's just stalling, it's getting paid out of the jeep, it's out of the trunk of a plastic bag. That's part of it. How do the herbicides travel? Well, it's known that border places go to Bosnia and Serbia, Shid, Ruma, Oresje, the corridor as they are already called, go and buy coke-cola, boys, and then what can be done, the herbicide shakes out the Coca-cola and then the herbicide goes into those bottles, whether it's from Coke, whether it's from the boys depending on the color of herbicides, and then it gets nicely across the border. Other means also travel, these are medicines used to treat cattle. In order for this to be traced, it would be necessary to see how many hectares there are, and how many herbicides and what accounts he justified them with, and that he bought them in Croatia. Someone can't have thousands of acres, and they use herbicides as if they've used 100 acres, and they're offering as if they've invested the maximum. That's the thing. And it can be controlled that way. And the herbicides and their control regarding the introduction into the soil have been controlled in such a way that those who deal with them and use them have had to complete this particular training through our agricultural advisers and to obtain the same confirmation, which they have received neatly. So they've got confirmation for herbicides, they've got the means to apply herbicides to plants and to the surface, but do we have control of these herbicides that come uncontrollably from other unverified centres in Croatia. That's questionable. I repeat again, as possible, and this can be determined in one single way. On the border, on the border where cops work and customs. How do they control vehicles that come and go all day? Whether they're searching, whether they're missing out, whether they're in agreement with someone, and who I know can come into Croatia and do things uncontrollably, I think there's the biggest problem and danger for what could harm agriculture and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179048	Thank you, colleague Culey. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179049	Thank you very much. In your discussion today, we heard a theory that you steal and export matter from Croatia to neighbouring countries, but it is amazing that you started from taking a bag of fertilisers somewhere, but you did not start from being supported for years and decades for the unprocessed land and in your neighborhood, etc. So you haven't touched these things at all, people are buying, buying voices, social peace, etc. the theft of public money from the state budget, and the country is not being processed at all. And you're distracted by the possibility that someone put a dung bag and took it somewhere. I mean, it's amazing that you came from that kind of thing and you always have the same story. According to one national minority, you have such a relationship that it is not worthy of a member of the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179050	Thank you. Hey, buddy Culey's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179051	Comrade Maras, the fertiliser is a brown matter, heavy and huge, and it's very hard to smuggle. It's about those expensive medications and expensive additives and herbicides that are being transferred. And when we talk about these surfaces and incentives, don't forget that your colleague Minister Jakovina, he's the one who invented incentives on mountain pastures, on cattle, floating, swimming cattle where only stamps are walking, and cattle are nowhere to be seen. It's Jakovina, where's Jakovina, where's this gentleman of yours today, who couldn't run a farm pharmacy in his own house? How could such a man have become a minister of agriculture? It was the same minister as you were minister of crafts and entrepreneurship, and you never had anything to do with either of them. The only thing that's successful is that the white woman's been set on fire twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179052	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179053	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culley, in your debate, you pointed out that there was no technical progress so that today people would be working their agricultural surfaces literally with a wooden plow and that a far greater number of today’s world population would be hungry. According to UN data for the last year of 7.6 billion inhabitants, 820 million are starving or malnourished, or every 9 people. This shows how important agricultural production is, among other things, when we talk about the situation in the Republic of Croatia from one security aspect. Today, when we close the borders, I highly doubt that for more than three months we could literally survive with this agricultural production. I therefore believe that we should do everything possible to raise agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179054	Thank you. Hey, buddy Culey's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179055	My fellow Uncle, if there were more Pancretics here, agriculture would be on top. If there were more engineering engineers here, it wouldn't have happened in Djura Djakovic. If the ministers were our men of the profession, they wouldn't have used the funds they received as compensations for the burning resorts for wages not intended but for what was paid for, to rebuild it on the basis of which they had raised it. Here, I like to say, many of those representatives of the Croatian people who have never been chosen from the people, who have never spoken to that people, who secretly drive cars from the Parliament to their apartments and run home to some apartments where no one knows them or sees them because they need to come into their midst where they know you all the village, the whole neighborhood. You need to come in between 10,000 people, walk out in front of them and tell them what you're saying here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179056	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179057	Thank you. Dear colleague Culey, you're talking about total pesticides without which unfortunately today's farming mass wouldn't be possible in this form which is and that's true. They're all poisonous and they'd be better off gone, but without them, it's impossible to work. However, my colleague Bulj here speaks of glyphosate, a glyphosate produced by Monsanto under the commercial name Randap, and which was undoubtedly found to be carcinogenic and unimaginably harmful to the human organism. The tragedy is that it is still being used, unfortunately today's industry has not even given a chemical response to total herbicide for it. And our tragedy in Croatia is that because of the cost of decedents who perform the event of soy before the victim, our farmers resort to the use of glyphosate for that purpose which is not allowed, but do not have... enough replacements.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179058	Thank you. Hey, buddy Culey's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179059	My friend Lenart, when I go to a farm pharmacy to keep the rodents in my barn or my field next to my salad because I'm holding pigs, I've had sheep, horses and stuff, but I've got dogs and cats, and I don't want to poison rodents, I don't go and I don't buy faciron because in a very bad way, it manifests in the stomachs of cats and of my dogs, but I take those soft ones. So I take softs that aren't like faciron, they don't affect blood vessels and the internal organs of dogs and cats. So, to everyone’s will, what they will take and what they will benefit them, let him determine for himself whether it harms or does not harm them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179060	Thank you, colleague Culey. I'm closing the debate. I thank Secretary of State Željko Plazonic and his associates. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179061	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation No. The European Parliament and the Council of 16 December 2008 on the classification and labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures amending and repealing Directive 67/548/EEC and Directive 1999/45/EC and amending and supplementing Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006, second reading, P.Z. No. 685. Proposer of the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. I find that most of the votes, 83 for, 40 abstentions, were passed by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179062	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Institutions, second reading, P.Z. No. 657. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. in The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. I'd like a representative of the motion secretary of state at the Ministry of Administration, Mr. Darko Nekic, to give us an additional explanation of the final bill. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs. Here, as has already been said in the introduction, so before you there is a final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Institutions. So the basic law was passed back in 1993 when it came into force. And so far he has been subject to only minor changes so that some of his provisions today are obsolete or not sufficiently consistent with the key changes that have occurred in our legislation. Since it means another reading, I'll just briefly look back on what happened between these two readings. We, of course, carefully analyzed all those remarks that you made both in the debate and through committees. The difference between this solution that today is on the benches and that solution that we had in the first reading is next. So it primarily refers to nomotechnical dorado. It means Articles 11, 40 and 45, as well as the erasure of the previous article. Fifty. Therefore, new provisions have also been added which, in certain provisions of this law, delete the word "institutions" behind the word "registrations" in accordance with the observations of the Legislative Committee. In addition, the renumberation of other provisions of the final draft law has been carried out with appropriate adjustments in the non-regular part. In addition, in the debate held at the 12th session of HS on 10 July 2019, the esteemed representative, Mr Batinić, proposed that the article be completed. Article 4 In 46, what we have done in this explanation, and also, there have been discussions that have been focused on the work of art. which regulates the selection of the Director, i.e. the appointment of the Director. We did not accept this part because we would enter a serious conflict with specific regulations that regulate certain activities. So right now special regulations regulate the selection and appointment of directors, so the problem is too diverse and this problem will be solved, meaning through special laws or after a certain time when this law matures to completely change, maybe it will be time and that this whole new law solves this issue which was mentioned also means in the debate at the mentioned session of HS. What I would say is, here in this opening statement, so this novel that is before you is extensive, but it is primarily aimed at harmonising the provisions governing the establishment and establishment of institutions with provisions means the Law on the Court Register, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Administrative Courts, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Law on the Right to Access to Information and the Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation. With the new Law on the State Administration System, it also had to be harmonised, which we relatively recently meant in the 7th month. It came into effect and you brought it to HS. With these meanings of material interventions related to these laws that I mentioned, we also took advantage of the opportunity to do the whole text of the law nomotechnically and termnologically. What he might particularly point out at this point, so we also respected social partners' initiatives, especially to a certain extent, means liberalised operations of institutions that perform a particular public service according to specific regulations, which are the founders of the meaning of other legal and physical persons, therefore private legal persons. In particular, such institutions can continue to reinvest in their activities, but now they are left with the possibility to use it in other ways. In addition to the appropriate application of the regulations on commercial societies and all in accordance with specific law, the instrument of establishment or their statutes. And lastly, what I would like to point out is that, specifically, this law, the Law on Institutions and this amendment, is also included in the national reform programme for 2019, but also as one of the measures within the framework of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Course Mechanism, etc. The ERM2 and the Banking Union, and in the wake of all this, I hope that you will support this law, would also comply with all the measures that are in the domain of the Ministry of Administration, which are related to these reform measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179064	I thank the Secretary of State. A dear colleague, Miro Bulj, answered. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179065	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'd like to request a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes on this bill of law to amend and supplement the Law on Institutions. This should be seriously warned, loudly spoken because these nomotenic changes that you mention to me, they will not affect anything, they will not affect, what you said, nor have you touched, nor are you planning to touch the director's choice, such as, and what the problem is telling you is the appointment of a director of a health home in Split-Dalmatia County, this, you remember that footage that came out as Mayor Boban, Dr. Nasic is in that video that was posted in the media, Dr. Nasic then made it clear that as a member of the board of directors of the institution means the bodies elected by the principal, everything is said, so you do not want to go beyond anything at all, you have thus destroyed the health homes by this staffing, about schools and the selection of directors in schools in educational institutions is disastrous, for example Sinja, I would now be able to speak for two hours, where I come from, where they even have their own portals, the mayor pays them to praise themselves these directors to protect themselves and so much pressure is created, so the health care has been destroyed, the way the appointment is guilty. Why? Is the name of people who are reliable with the mayors, who are, in particular, saying this in the case of the Split-Dalmatia County's health home in the appointment of Mr. Petrica, but the pressure has been made, so after the pressure he is no longer the director, but he is an adviser to his former advisor who became director, and the home of health and health services is toned in that institution. People No service, no health care [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a break. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179066	No one's here anymore. She's not answering. I'm setting a break for 10.50 hours. It's 10.35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.50 HOURS]] Replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the beginning, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Administration on the achievement of the incredible success of this mandate, yesterday they praised on their websites that the dead will no longer be able to vote in Croatia, so this should indeed be recognised by Minister Malenica that he has made an incredible step and that for the first time said they will not be able to vote dead in the elections. It might be a good idea if HDZ allowed us to have quality election control so we don't steal them, but that's not what they did, and they didn't take that step for election presidents, so at least we'll be satisfied so the dead won't be able to vote anymore. On the other hand, I wonder if the ministry has made it possible for this law to control the legality or change of administrations in institutions, we see that in the city of Zagreb we have a dramatic case where the mayor's will is replaced by the successful director of the institution Mr. Dr. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Legal, I'm curious to know what can be done on the side of the ministry to make that self-will impossible?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179069	Comrade Maras, I would ask you nicely to watch your time. I'm moving on to the next line, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179070	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said that this Law on Institutions is in line with a number of other laws and I ask the question whether it has agreed and regulated enough of the Law on Public Institutions especially in those institutions that are founders of regional self-government or county because the fact is that we also have a Lonjsko polje public institution in Sisak-Moslavina County, in Gajna, in Brod-Posavia County where this area should be regulated better. The focus is to adopt this strategy for the development of agriculture, I think we also need to regulate through this Law on institutions to define what can be produced there, how can it be managed that our agricultural producers know that our fishermen know whether to fish and how to fish and how to finance these public institutions so that it is not just because of the director and membership card?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179071	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179072	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it seems to me. 30. but here somewhere, it states that, with the basic activity to be entered, some secondary activities that are not overweight will be possible to carry out in the register but are common, so I wonder how it will decide what other activities are that will be done in the basic way and how it will be evaluated, whether something will be prescribed or left like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179073	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. The answer to the replica you want or what? ... The answer to the replica? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179074	Thank you. So, Reverend Maras, if you looked closely, the ministry already issued an apology last night for mispublished information that you of course missed to look at or perhaps you did not mention in your presentation so that the ministry apologized because the wrong information was published on the Ministry's website. As regards these other issues relating to the Law on Institutions, the Law on Institutions is about one framework and the issue which has been raised through the questions of respected MPs and MPs is addressed by special law. So the Law on Institutions is working on a framework. The Law on Theatres, Museums and All Other Laws addresses all these questions that you have asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179075	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Still under the impression that for the first time the dead will not be able to vote in the presidential elections that will take place in 2.5 weeks, I must say that under such success and impression it is difficult and debated, but let's give them a confession. It would be good if HDZ had accepted and the Ministry of Administration had accepted the SDP proposal and all opposition clubs that we have quality control of the presidential elections because we know that it is only in the presidential elections that we do not have in mind that they are unable to control the participants of the process through election committees, which is why we do not know, but we do know that it allows HDZ what we have serious doubts about trying to the current President to steal elections and it is not good and I am sorry that HDZ did not allow it yesterday, it would have been another step with the fact that the dead cannot vote in Croatia anymore. But when we talk about the Law on Institutions, it means something that we need to get a little wider, not just the semantics or how certain terms are in the law, whether they're outdated, whether they're more used in other laws, and then, let's say, they change the words "bodys" with the words "bodys". It is important to see what this law regulates and how it deals with certain situations in the Republic of Croatia in practice. So we are aware that unfortunately neither the Ministry nor the Government nor I would say the whole framework that defined the area of operation of the institutions, there is no safeguard mechanism against irregularities, corruption and the use of certain powers for false purposes. I'm going to say just one example that happened in Zagreb two days ago when the successful director of the hospital at Srebrenica, Dr. The leg, which 23 years under all possible authorities, means it started from Mrs. Dropulic, the mayor of HDZ and then continued under the mayor, means for 23 years, a man in continuity at the head of the hospital in order to simply change him overnight with an explanation that certain illegalities were found in his work. These same alleged illegalities that he says don't exist were known to the city administration, the owner, for many years, and they never minded it but began to disturb them now, that is, today. And it bothers them for a very simple reason. Because the hospital in Srebrenica received a 60m-euro project as a quality project that everyone, by the way, who changes it today, laughed, and fellow Nogalo believed in it. And now we need to control who will implement this 60 million kuna project, and colleague Nogalo said not to those interest groups around the mayor. And on the other hand, of course, famous cableman and Sanatorija Brestovec, located on the slopes of Medvednica and for which I speak publicly here to the DORH and all investigative journalists to check whose lands are in the vicinity of the sanatorium, not only of the hospital Srebnjak, which is why Nogalo had to go but private owners around the sanatorium and will then become clear to them why the mayor Bandic insists on building an interstate, only 100 meters above sea level under the top of Sljemen and thus raises someone in the sky the value of land in the vicinity and interstation. And now we see that around that institution in the city property, there are huge interests and practically that today on tomorrow city government or maybe tomorrow, county or any other, can replace any successful director in the way he wants it under the pretext he wants, and that the ministry and the law don't have a control mechanism to see if someone in this way has exceeded the powers or whether or not he has used certain things that have been replaced by someone who isn't enough to change his term of office for four years. And now the question is, we're adopting the law, we define certain rules, we're going to replace bodies, it's not at all a problem in law and a whole series of other provisions, but whether we're going to get the possibility of the Ministry of Administration and certain bodies, and it's not, someone's going to say, here, we're going to be in the autonomic unit of local self-government. Look, whether certain rules are respected and whether the reasons are consistent with those legal or statutes of those institutions, someone has to be able to question and my question here is whether the Ministry of Administration has made such a kind of surveillance when we see that 3 days in the media do not stop this debate and that there is no overexplanatory explanation as to why dr. The leg removed, except for this huge interest in the final term of Bandic Mayor in the all-out assistance of HDZ de facto in the city of Zagreb is trying to grab every possible project on which there is some money to get these interesting lobbys below. And now the question is being asked, so you can replace everyone by writing something that doesn't stand, or if standing isn't enough for a shift because if you're looking for a doctor, and you don't get a certain profession, and if you can hire another doctor in a certain place who can do his job in quality, I don't really see the problem, especially I don't see the problem when Mr. Stavinić Rukavina was familiar with these situations because no job I think at the hospital or that institution can pass that the administrative council is not informed about it, and now after all these years, 23 years, suddenly it's become a problem for the gentlemen of Srebrenica and the ladies. It's not that they've become troubled, it's that they're having trouble building, who's going to make money, who's going to run the space, especially this valuable space upstairs in the sanatorium, and until we solve this problem, so the amendment of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Institutions is not going to solve anything. So on this side I appeal to the ministry to oversee the implementation of these and other specific laws, if it is within the jurisdiction of other ministries that we have a little more quality story because we have really allowed local sheriffs, this is really a couple of excellent cases in the city of Zagreb, which occupied the media three days of the whole media space and it is evident that it is a great public interest and it is amazing that no one from the central state bodies is responding, it is amazing that from the ruling coalition in the city of Zagreb other parties are not particularly responding because HDZ is full of doctors. So the head of the town hall is Dr. Prgomet and that he doesn't have or won't tell you about the question of the Srebrenica and the way it happens there is unacceptable and incredible for us. It means that we can practically conclude that the mayor of Bandić and Mr Prgomet and HDZ are directly there in the transaction and that they are holding each other back, which is not good, and I think that at the end of the day the price will be paid by citizens, the price will be paid by children in view of the importance of this institution, which is very likely to have tens of thousands of Zagreb children in the past years, and not only by Zagreb but also spread through, throughout the whole, through the Republic of Croatia and when you have such support for employees who are practically manifested that they can't even find v.d. The director, because no one wants to accept it, and 90% of the employees, the hospital stands behind its director, you see that there is no problem in them, that it is not a problem in Dr. Nogal, that the problem in the mayor Bandić, or the ruling majority in the City of Zagreb, is the problem in such laws that simply do not prevent that kind of self-will that he is carrying out in this case, the City of Zagreb, and not for the interests of the citizens and, and our children in the City of Zagreb, but for the interest of a few more likely unknown, but perhaps the general public of unknown individuals and entrepreneurs, but, but, but to the mayor Bandić and his saints very well-known and once again I call everyone to go to the register, meaning the cadastre, let them look at who owns the plots around Brestovac, very soon it will all become clear to them all, don't be surprised if some, by the principle of the houses on Adven, find it even worse because unfortunately in the City of Zagreb wherever you go, the same model of management, is the same model of sharing of cookies, space, money, always goes to the chosen ones that are in this way, in the non-urban rule, we have in 2020. Almost, but I'm convinced that very soon in 2021 we're going to greet such a model of governance and then we're going to change all these injustices. So I can tell you in the beginning that it would be good if no one were to get caught up in this business. The leg because a man deserves rehabilitation, I am convinced that in 2021, however he will experience it, in one way or another, he will return to his workplace and finish the project which he, who started, and who now takes it will last for a short time, means a year and a few days and he will connect with Mayor Bandic, who is in the interest of doing so, unfortunately HDZ has tied up in the City of Zagreb, completely unclear to me, but it is good for their political opponents. So, here are colleagues and colleagues we will support these changes, so we have absolutely nothing to change these technical things, but we need to note that the key to the problem is in the Republic of Croatia and, and the way we control what is happening in the institutions, and someone has noticed it here, and the institutions are rarely founded and exclusively so that individuals can meet party needs, that we have situations like we had in Split where the mayor is directly mixed up in a way that says that a competition will be cancelled until he is a candidate who has obtained all the conditions or could be chosen, means when we have such ecludent examples as in the City of Zagreb now around Dr. The leg, without anyone reacting other than the public, and we may be able to regulate it with certain legal provisions, so far we will have problems in these institutions, meaning either in the county, at city or state level, at the state level, so that we do not expect too much of this, means we may expect technical improvements, we expect certain things that could be fixed, but what we expect in the country where in 2019. two and a half weeks before the election after we're 30. Almost democracy in the Republic of Croatia, a number of election cycles are praised by the government of the Republic of Croatia for the fact that for the first time the dead will not vote in the elections, if that's the speed with which we are working, if that's something that we should be forte, and I'm not saying that, says the ministry that published that information on its web pages yesterday and brought it to the media, almost unrealistically all of it seems expensive, but that the Republic is unfortunately about the development of democratic processes and supervision and certain things that we should still have for ourselves at a low, low level of development, so this also looks like a monumental, monumental success, which is that the dead will not be able to vote, here thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179077	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, before we continue the discussion at the gallery, members and members of the delegation of the German-Croatian society have joined us, I warmly welcome them, welcome and comfortable stay at HS. ... On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Darko Nekic, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I have to mention again, so obviously either Mr. Maras didn't hear me or missed out, so the ministry published an apology on our web site last night, it's been apologized because there was a mistake that it was essentially the old news from 2014, so last night we apologized to the public for having made a mistake about what you were saying. However, here I would like to comment once again on the further course of this debate of the fact that, in my opening statement, I also said that this law that is on the benches today, meaning that today you are discussing is a framework law that regulates the issue among other things, and the governance of institutions. So even under the current law, and on the case you were saying, the Director had the right to plead, had the opportunity to state the reasons for the resolution, and besides, he remained left with all the possibilities of the court in the protection of his interest. So this law doesn't regulate that question. The issue is regulated by the Health Protection Act, just as the questions from the museum domain are regulated by the Law on Museums, the Theatres of the Law on Theatres and not to list any further. So we can't solve all the problems that you've been talking about with this law that's actually an old framework for solving the problem you've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179079	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179080	Thank you very much. So from what I understand, Mr. Someic, we have your firm guarantees that the dead cannot vote in these elections, and we have all heard that and we, I must admit, are happy with the experience of HDZ in previous elections. But this is what you just said, that Dr. The leg can appeal to Mayor Bandic's decision to the courts. I do not see what will help a man, given that the mayor Bandic is still in a year and a half, that it is more practical on Zrinjevac in courts than on his office job and that all his actions have lasted for 6, 7, 8 years. So Mr. Nogalo doesn't stand a chance against the network of Mr. Mayors that extends to both the judiciary and on that side he has nothing on that appeal. More will return by change The authorities in their place than [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] appeal to the Croatian court. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179081	Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179082	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, you can hear things in this assembly, different opinions. What used to be high and superior achievements are now suddenly the subject of mockery. By the way, 2014 was for your sake and for the Croatian public, years before the parliamentary elections, and so some boasted that the dead would no longer vote, and now this news that appeared on the Ministry of Administration's website simply indicates that certain staff changes in the ministries are necessary because such statements can very often be malicious. So, I'm glad that our colleague Maras reminded us today of one of the great and superior statements of the SDP government in 2014 because these things were simply meant to be remembered and said that this would no longer happen, but very interesting when it was stolen by some comrades, when actually the same people published it, it seemed very funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179083	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179084	Thank you very much. The 238th article was injured, Mr. Schucker was speaking some lies in his speech, and he forgot the key thing. When it happens during the SDP government, it is normal because all HDZ mandates are marked by the vote of the dead and then it is the real news. Because if they vote dead in 2010, then, of course, we've had to brag that the dead will no longer vote because HDZ is not in power. Well, that's the most normal news. But now it's over again. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] It's not normal anymore. [[Invader Brkić: A colleague.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179085	Thank you, colleague Maras. I would ask you nicely to read a good article. 238. Nowhere in that article. Don't mention the lie so please don't call on that article. And don't abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague Shuker. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maras hurt his ankle. 238. It simply does not allow a fellow representative to bring facts and truths to the Croatian public, and sometimes the truth hurts. Sometimes failures hurt, I know that his news that the dead will no longer vote reminded her of the good times when he was a minister, but that's past the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179087	A fellow Shuker. You know very well the business opportunities, you could take a break, and then you could talk about these topics and pass the message to your colleague Maras, not abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure as a colleague of Maras. And I do appeal to all my colleagues and colleagues not to abuse those institutes needlessly, and I don't think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Here you go, colleague Maras, you've reached out to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I have to report for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club because after these discussions, we need further consultation on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions. So after the fact that HDZ colleagues do not accept the generally known notor fact that during all elections, when they were organised during HDZ authorities, it was known that the dead were running to the polls and voting, and thus the ballot boxes are being filled. We need to discuss this law to see if it is in fact the Ministry of Administration that in some way the entire system of state administration in the Republic of Croatia, and the Law on Institutions needs to be thoroughly shaken, we need to analyse certain solutions because unfortunately we have a situation in the Republic of Croatia that we do not have confidence, ladies and gentlemen in HDZ in the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Because if the HDZ had the intention of having these elections properly organised and not stolen, they would not only make fun of themselves and put on the Ministry's website that the dead will no longer be able to vote and shame themselves in such a way as to allow parties and those involved in the election, I am not talking about any of these 11 who have collected signatures for Mr. Škor and all the other representatives of the parties, they would be able to monitor what they do not have. So they just want HDZ to oversee the election and they're afraid that this was, as you might say, a spontaneous and unintentional mistake from the Ministry of Administration because I'm afraid that in these elections they'll be dead and voting. And that is why we have highlighted it so much today because we want to warn Croatian citizens about the theft that is being prepared in the presidential elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179089	Thank you, colleague Maras. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179090	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break to remind me of some of the achievements that were there in 2010, 2011 about the appointment of top people, state companies, institutions when it was held in a public competition and then the SDP when it took over the government in 2012, he simply said, we will not stick to it, we have the authorities and then we will choose the people with whom we will exercise that power. It's just a fact. Now, we at the club simply have to establish and we have to agree that it is a provision that the main people of the institution, the top people of the state-owned enterprises and the members of the supervisory boards, are elected through a public tender, it has been nine years since then, now you can imagine how much this process would have evaluated and progressed and the SDP brought us back to the time of political appointment. It's just a fact that you can't escape from. Same story with these voices of the dead. So when you're afraid of your own failures to lose the election, then you're going with some marketing and PR jokes, they vote dead, like this, like that and then you're gonna get defeated in the election, and now you want that same mantra again. However, this news, which has been published, speaks of how the malicious messages that some people in the ministry put on the web pages can cause great damage, and political damage and professional damage, so to speak because you Croatian citizens, when such news appears, how will you convince them that the voter lists are okay? It's just that now the question is who did it and why did it. And now look, if someone already has experience from some previous years that it's some kind of news that can reach some political points, then probably the same people, it's simply facts that you can't escape from but I'm saying, which is, there it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179091	Thank you. Dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179092	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club, I am also asking for a break to consult on the Law on Institutions because we want to reconsider the fact that this law will also make a legal framework. And the secretary of state said that the other areas within the framework of certain activities of public institutions are regulated by special laws, so he also mentioned the Law on Theatres. The fact is that all of this is a large theatre because the fact that we have laws, we are even out of line, we have too many laws that are not implemented or are selectively implemented according to certain groups that are protected against the law, where the trials are conducted for 10, 15 years, and eventually these same judgments are repealed and returned to the beginning, they knew simply the judicial system is not working, and when it comes to public institutions, we often establish them just to satisfy the form, to choose the director, to satisfy the party interest because if you are not a member of a particular political option that the authorities cannot become director, this is an example of being also in the NP Krka, here and the mayor of Split-Dalmatia County because they said, and we see, for example in Zagreb, that Mr. Nogal from one successful hospital is changing for political reasons only, this will show that the investigation is also being changed by those who were in the administrative council and they did not take notice with the institutions. So you need to solve and finance public institutions, give them a legal framework that they work within their powers and not only to be established there because of that director, and then if you don't feel like it politically, you need to change it. It's not a policy the HSS advocates, and I think we all need to get serious about it not being a theater in the future, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179093	Thank you. I'm setting a break until 11 o'clock and 35 minutes. It's 11:23 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.35 HOURS]] Replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179095	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. I would only take advantage of this opportunity since it is stated in the light of this law that the need for a certain degree of liberalisation of the conditions of business of public institutions which are the founders of other legal and physical persons. So I would ask if you can give us an example of how many such public institutions are wholly or partly owned and perhaps some of the most famous ones that are if you know we know exactly what this is about. I assume that institutions that those bodies that have a different form of structure as stock companies, capital societies etc. They don't fall under this law, they're not institutions even though they exercise public authority, we have those, and I'm curious to know exactly which ones are meant here and how many are there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179096	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179097	Thank you. So, the exact number of you can certainly not give or keep records, but it is primarily about institutions meaning from the health spectrum or the polyclinics that are organised as institutions, so that if you have read this argument, and it is, related to Article 42, it is not applicable to those institutions that are founded by public authorities, but exclusively to which are the founders of a private person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179098	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HDS-HSLSS-HDSSB Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. I won't be long. You state secretaries mentioned in your opening statement the appointments of directors of institutions under special laws, and I want to point out here today the problems that occur at local levels, precisely about governance and precisely the responsibilities of those who should manage public institutions. We have the impression that many things are going under the radar, that there is not enough control, that there are no measures that would prevent non-management of institutions and measures that would sanction possible very difficult consequences when something is happening in accordance with the law and which is not at all good, which is harmful to citizens who live in a local environment. We have a situation today, and here, on behalf of the SDP club, a colleague spoke, and he respected various gaps by his party, in fact, some other parties. I will speak here very specifically here in this debate on amendments to the Law on Institutions about the specific problems of a local self-government where it is in power of the SDP on the town of Križevci in which it is in power of the SDP. So three months in the town of Križevci children's kindergarten with 250 children has no principal or director, three months is a public institution without a director, I say in the city where the SDP is in power. Over two months, a public fire force as a city institution has no commander or deputy, no responsible person in the city where the SDP is in power. I'm asking a question, why isn't anyone controlling it, what are you doing? It is two institutions, one where children of preschool age and the other are placed to worry about the protection of the lives of citizens and their material property. Nothing's going on. Everybody knows that, it's all right, but there's no moves. And then I ask the question, what about responsible people in local self-government? Do they have any responsibility in that part? Will someone raise a question to see who's responsible for why the public institution doesn't work, or will we wait for it to be solved in itself for a few months until someone sets someone up, until someone who has to be there or God doesn't let some evil happen then it'll go away. There is a sure situation and a problem in Croatia. And I'm using this debate on amendments to the Law on Institutions to point out that particular problem. Start the control mechanism and the mechanism and system of responsibility for people who need to manage it. We have a case that the local leader says in the appointment of the board of directors of JVP I don't need those people who know something about it, I need people who listen to what I'm going to say, and so the board of directors asks them, and then I ask whether the Law on Institutions has come up with such crazy statements, but not with statements, but with moves, so that they can be prevented by these special laws, that these fundamental laws practically define that special laws must be clearly stated, especially in institutions that care about children and that care about the security of citizens and protect their property. We're going to support these amendments to the law, but here's what I took advantage of is the opportunity to point out the indifference and insanity and nebuloses that are happening, I say in a city where the SDP is in power, so that now there's no one who's where, which party is here, which is there, this is a particular case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179100	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Stipe Sapina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179101	I thank the Honorable Vice-President HS, the Honorable State Secretary, the Honorable Fellow MPs and fellow MPs, as the Proposer explained in the opening statement, today, in the procedure, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Institutions which defines the assessment of the situation, the fundamental issues to be regulated by this law, and the consequences that will arise on this basis. On the basis of the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 7 November 2019. It is clear that this final proposal for a law contains the fundamental changes that were necessary. Since the original text of the Law on Institutions was passed in 1993. and that he had only experienced three minor changes since then in 1997, 1999 and 2008. The existing Law on Institutions contains a series of outdated and non-compliant provisions which are excessive since they are already detailed in other laws. The specific legal regime of a public institution is reflected in particular in the fact that a public institution can obtain public authority and legislator in Article. In 44th of this final bill, it just defines how it is established. In that case, when an institution is established as a public institution, its statute, its status is significantly different from what others designate, what other institutions have, the public institution must first and foremost exercise public powers only under the condition and in the manner in which the procedure is laid down by law. Furthermore, public authorities are always the founders of public institutions. As an example, we cite an article. 74. The Law on Roads which provides for the exercise of public authority by a legal person who manages a public road, therefore relating to the public authority of legal persons, depends exclusively on specific laws and other regulations adopted under those laws. In addition to the above mentioned, this Final Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions opens up the possibility of public institutions engaged in public service in accordance with a special law, the founder of which is a second legal or natural person making a profit, use and in other ways, in appropriate application of regulations in commercial societies based on the decision of the founder, and in accordance with the act of establishment and the statute of the institution. Here, as an example, we can mention a kindergarten whose founders are not units of local and regional (regional) self-government or the Republic of Croatia and are established in accordance with the Preschool Education and Education Act. In relation to the first reading of the proposed law, the session held on 10 July 2019, and after the debate of the legislators, the completion of the article was carried out. Article 42, which is amended as follows: 57. The Law on Institutions in a way that is now clearly read by St. 3 the exception provided for in this provision and that it can be applied to institutions established by public authorities. The amendment of Articles should be further mentioned. The 11th existing Law on Institutions which amends the right form from which it is clear that persons employed in institutions do not enter into the service or employment of an institution receive no solution on the schedule, but with the institution as an employer establish a working relationship and enter into a contract of employment, and the General Rules on Labour and Labour Act apply to the employees of local and regional self-government, as opposed to those of local and regional self-government who are subject to the Law on civil servants and tenants, or the Law on Employees and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government. In this article, I might also point out that it would be good to do so in such a way as to prescribe that he is employed in public institutions that conduct the procedure or resolve administrative matters in accordance with the specific regulation of the obligation to pass a state expert examination based on this, for this, the basis for this. for this dorado, we see in Art. 23. The law on a general administrative procedure which clearly defines the official person, given that public institutions are treated as legal persons with public authority under the law mentioned above, the Law on Institutions should prescribe the submission of a state examination, it would also be good to do so as to amend the existing Article. Ten. The Law on Institutions now taxing public institutions entrusted to the affairs of state administrations in one or more administrative areas or transactions in the division of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. The paper of this final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Institutions is that, in Article 35(2), paragraph 3 is added, which determines exactly who appoints representatives of the founders of the Governing Council of Institutions and in such a way that, if the founder of the institution of the Republic of Croatia does so, if the founder of the units of local or regional self-government of municipalities, the city or the county is made up of the executive body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government, the body of the legal person shall be designated by an act establishing an institution for institutions which is the founder of another legal person or natural person or other person. Furthermore, the amendment to Article 6 of the Law of the Public Institution may also be established for the conduct of State administration operations in accordance with the laws governing the system of state administration and specific laws, and the administrative board or other collegiate body of that institution may be empowered to adopt implementing rules. The new provisions of the Law on Institutions proposed in the Final Proposal of the Law on Institutions provide for the publication of tenders for the appointment of directors on the website of the institution, publication of acts on the establishment of statutes and other general acts on the website of the institution in an easily searchable manner and in a machine-readable form. According to the provisions of the new Law on Institutions on its website, the establishment will publish information on the conditions and manner of providing services and performing operations from its activity. The emphasis in this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Institutions shall be placed on issues such as the way of establishment, the powers of administrative councils and other... bodies, the responsibility for the legal and proper performance of the affairs and the way in which public institutions are obtained, which is the sole founder of the Republic of Croatia, and by the basis of a special law or exclusively carry out the entrusted tasks of the state administration in full and in accordance with the new Law on the system of state administration. Certainly, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions as proposed by the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179102	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored Fellow Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179103	Thank you very much. These proposals of the Law on Institutions are essentially nomotechnical amendments, the way in which they are appointed, the way in which they are appointed, and that is that. However, the fact is quite different in reality, I think we should talk about it, and there would be a tribunal legislator working on it simply in the Republic of Croatia in these institutions to become a director, and that you don't have a party card is just almost amazing. I can mention now here another case of the Split-Dalmatia County Health House which has essentially since when there is a county destroyed the most important health services in the Split-Dalmatia County area. It's the biggest county, the doctors are leaving because... specializations, but these directors are named and it's confirmed by dr. Nasic Ivan, in that video that came out in the media, claims that without Prime Minister Plenkovic, not that he would not be appointed director, but that he could not be employed in the institution at home without his approval. And not only that, the other thing is very important what is the fact that as the House of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County where Dragomir Petica was that Mr. Raja essentially became his advisor, and now Petrica is his adviser regardless of what no one bears responsibility for the poor condition due to health services. So at county and local level, and when we talk about county level then in these institutions nobody literally can come close without a party card. So the appointment in schools, as regards the appointment of director 99.9, there may be exceptions that confirm the rule because with party cards, I mentioned earlier in my town of Sinj, simply people who are most active in parties and high-ranking and even who have nothing to do with education but later solved something became principals and schools. And as far as the health care home is concerned, it's absolutely scattered, it's a key problem. We are here talking about the problem of the functioning of institutions that are important to our citizens. Here's because I often talk about home health, since my end of the Cetinski region and the Split-Dalmatia County ran out of many health services, to describe to you how it works it's more than embarrassing. Everything that all doctors mean, we literally don't have a pediatrician, we stayed on one pediatrician 3,500 people, and while in the home of health which was appointed purely politically with a party card i.e. A coalition partner in HDZ County, but I don't know in what way it's mostly your trade as well as with concessions of maritime well-being, so it works down and most likely it works in the counties where the SDP is. But so at local levels in kindergartens, here's only in this area how much trouble there is with the appointments of directors, the humiliation of workers, the employees, the aunt therefore simple functioning of founders in the Republic of Croatia exclusively by the party card is employed and appointed directors and everything else is below that key. And that's a fact, from school to home health. And that's why we have this case that two-thirds of Croatia has moved out, unfortunately. And that's why I'm calling from this place to all people who, to get involved and to fight and to stay in this area, that because of the party cards and the employment of those who don't have a party card not to go outside but to fight in various ways because if anything fits this system and the system is that these people are leaving. It's important to them that they stay here who are employed by a political key with a party card in institutions, but it's similar to that in, it's an example of a national park, it's not an institution, but it's a similar example, so here I can compare it. You know at the appointment of directors in Krka National Park, although it is not related to this but it is similar, just for comparison to make, there were several candidates but two candidates entered the narrow selection. One was, she had an HNS and HDZ party card at the same time and the other was Mrs. Zmijanovic had status and defenders but without it she had a doctorate and better status, better quality, higher vocational education. However, better criteria were met, but the one with two party cards was chosen. It's the same for you in institutions. Two HDZ and HNS party cards were more important here, and so are you in these institutions. I think this way of managing the facilities is terribly bad. It expresses enormous dissatisfaction because there are no professional people coming here but similar personnel politically appointed and simply the whole system collapses both in health care and in education and in particular, here I mention the health care of the Split-Dalmatia County, my Dalmatian burns that literally collapsed to that line that we no longer have a doctor, as I said we have no pediatrician. At 3.5 thousand children at one point, there was only one pediatrician. The women for UZV breasts waited for months, six months to enroll in the UZV breast. And if they're lucky to enroll then there's a checkup in those six months if they don't wait again. Some in the ranks waited literally, literally, and were likely to die if their breast tumor had not been detected. So I think we should take this seriously here. Our doctors are leaving, our educators are leaving, all of our quality people are leaving just because they are named after the party key in the institutions. Except for that. And of course when he comes to this House of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County Director that he is obliged then to hire HDZ 20,... 10 lawyers, 15 administrative workers and at least invests in what is necessary and is needed in doctors, nurses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I even gave the amendment here, and even in the county I talked about it, so lack of medical staff, medical technicians, nurses, so we have one huge problem, a huge problem in institutions, in hospitals, I won't even talk, we have a problem here in Split Hospital where you simply can't get a party card in the lead place. And that is why it happens that the Split Hospital is the second most important in the Republic of Croatia, 500 thousand people have Split-Dalmatia County. We know that Zaleđe is part of Herzegovina, the Lithuanian region, Tomislavgrad, Herzegovina, all come to these areas during the tourist season, in Split being a tourist at least as many as there are residents in Split-Dalmatia County. We have a problem and of course I've given 10 million for devices and equipment, I've given, we don't have parking spaces, of course nobody here wanted to raise a hand to the hospital in Split. I wish that were suggested by Petar Škorić, I wish that was suggested by my colleague and neighbor from Trilja Ivan Šipic, I wish they had suggested it, and so did Ante Sanader, Miro Kovac, who comes down when the elections, neatly tours those ends, but there is absolutely nothing. Also when I talk about these institutions and health care, then the problem is what happens because of this appointment and this way. You have a lab today. You don't have a lab on Hvar. And when people do that service in Hvar there are no doctors they have to send their blood to Split or I don't know everything they need. Now imagine when there's a storm, when there's simply no possibility. Or from Makarska 120km to Kaštela is sent. So absolutely this kind of appointment of the director is solely the culprit for, this politically similar way of naming the director in both education and school, so in hospitals, so in health care, so in all institutions of the public, it's simply brought about that the best-quality people have gone and that's why we have that effect when the prime minister here boasts, we have economic growth, and I confirm that Croatia has economic growth because these are official facts. However, where is economic growth? Because of this way of appointment of the director and later because of coalition and party settlements in institutions of non-professional people, in fact, professionally went out and therefore we have 5% of GDP from payments from the meanings of abroad. And that's the result, that's the consequence and this is the cause of the appointment of directors, political-like and so unfortunately most of them. There's probably an exception, but 90% of it's like that. I have said an example of the Home of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County or most appointments of directors to school. And the House of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County was destroyed which was organized well, which was well organized and we had health services relatively covered and today we do not have. And now they haven't called for specializations in ten years, these principals, and now we don't have doctors, and now we're gonna call 60 specials. And what about those five, six years until the doctors finish specializing? So here was the least common good, and that's the result. Here, the result is that the best-quality people have gone to us and that's the result of economic growth that these people are now sending money to their families, the highest-quality doctors, the highest quality, everyone who's gone, the medical staff, nurses, nurses, teachers, they send that money to their families, and that's why we have economic growth. At the same time as 130 000 we have the government approved requests for foreign labour, we emptied 2/3 of Croatia and this is a key problem. We Assembly representatives need to talk about it and since the procedure, whether it matters in essence, it is important to those who are in power that those who remain there and are essentially county, their institutions are the Nucleus Party Army, the Party Army, and therefore really should, I should, when I have run for mayor, I have been elected mayor, I would be the last mayor and I believe that one moment will come, it will be seen that the counties are a huge problem in the decentralisation of the Republic, that they are the brakes of development of the Republic because all institutions and all the money that goes towards the counties, decentralised funds towards the counties and these directors are the narrow party party used. Just a tight party. At least for the benefit of health, education, children, professors, health professionals, solutions should be sought in this regard. And that's why we MPs have to fight, that every kuna of decentralised funds comes to its place, comes to the most underdeveloped neighborhoods, not that the mayor or mayor of some rural municipality, on the margins that it must be if it's not good with the mayor won't get any money at all or from home health won't get any services. That's a fact. I am looking at Vrhorak, immotive, brazen, Kninski, Sibenik background, Straight Wheels, Liku, Lika so widespread, small so there are 4 home health care, so let's say the Split-Dalmatia County was fussed, even remember when they lifted our birthplace, your secretary's former safe and now you're glad to hear I'm saying it, first it was hard for you because, Jadranka Kosor had abolished the birthplace, the stationary, everything we wanted to do in Sinj, in Sinj, which is bigger than Međimurje County surface and by the number of inhabitants, the fourth end was bigger than Ličko-Sen County and I'm glad that Lika had to invest in these parts, but the Pharaoh's management system in Lica has done damage, the only things that were neat when they were clean for the local, behind each bus, behind each one of which was not known to beech at the time. I think that the key problem of managing institutions in owners and founders is the political appointments of directors, mostly in counties of course and local self-government, but the county is a key brake of development, the failure of health services, the failure of education, and now you've rewarded them with the accession of state offices. You've still given them the reward now, the state office, the administration, even though they don't have room in the county. So people literally as many of them in the county, literally my dear gentlemen, literally have nowhere to sit. I once brought 4 chairs, even the amendment I gave, recently it was a county assembly, they take it unrelentingly to realize that in Split the county building is two floors for new employees. It's just people are down the halls, people are down the ice, on the grass, mostly these young people, so I'm sorry, I gave them the amendment, embarrassingly. It is time for those who set up these institutions and, above all, for the county to be abolished and for the money to be decentralised justly and justly, for the professionals to remain in our areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179104	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179105	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. So, very briefly, initially, although I just have to look back at my colleague Bulja, we're always talking about public services, powers, institutions, and then we get to these counties that are in one hand if I'm well understood senseless and in the other they have unnecessary, right, and the others have some Pharaohian powers again, and then it's not like we decide what we're actually going to say but when we're talking about institutions, we need to know that it's actually kind of an initial form for performing non-economic public services in the Republic of Croatia, so let's say one special form, an organisational form for doing exactly the general useful goals, etc. So the goal here is important. We distinguish institutions and public institutions today. So, absolutely here we are talking about a kind of increase, allowing the degree of liberalisation of these very public institutions, especially which are founders of natural and other legal persons. Now, this law solves the primary intensity is actually a way of setting up, the powers of the board of directors, other... bodies, responsibility for the legal and proper performance of entrusted tasks, etc., and means of making available the profits of public institutions which are the sole founder of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here we speak primarily of what must be the objective but the possibility is opened that public institutions that perform public service in accordance with a special law whose founder is just as I said, another legal or natural person or whose sole founder is another legal or natural person, the profit of use, and in other ways, does not change the rules of the companies. Thus, a kind of liberalisation but it is said that this does not exclude the possibility that these public institutions and the continued profit achieved benefit from the development of their activities if the founder considers it necessary as soon as possible to be the only way to use the profits achieved, only to invest in further business and that is the main objective of providing better public service. We are talking today in the public sector about primarily 6 different species, agencies, associations, chambers, foundations, foundations, companies and institutions. So they were actually entrusted by the state to perform certain public affairs or by fulfilling public interest by giving them these very public powers. We, as far as I have managed to find we have currently 1870 institutions outside of the budget funds in the Republic of Croatia, there is only for the public means everything you fall into from museums, music schools, etc., educational schools, kindergartens and all that belongs to educational institutions, health, social, etc., means everything that the state leaves to a certain authority to the same, same and true public interest through it. What is changed here, therefore, in Article 1, unlike what was, is, in fact, determined that the institution is established for the permanent performance of activities of public interest in accordance with a specific law. Therefore, it does not go as precise as so far because it is said that not all were accurate enough, that not all were the activities mentioned. And what I can say is that I am glad that the suggestion of colleagues Batinić in Article 4 and Article 46di last time he asked during the first reading was actually to make a clear distinction that these are public institutions and that this does not apply to agencies that simply have to be independent of existing Croatian laws, and this is even closer to being achieved here. What would also draw attention to me is that we and the Constitution in Article 117 have prescribed that certain public administration transactions can be entrusted by law to legal persons, meaning some other type of public notaries, etc., and then the Law on the State Administration System in Article 2 so that certain transactions can be entrusted to legal persons who have public authority under the law. And that's all good, but we have to make sure that there are certain, certain systems that would like to be a little bit of a review of the allocation of such public powers to some private-owned legal entities, let's say by the stock companies. And that not only gives power but also monopolists are actually made possible by monopoly. It is as if we have one company that deals with public records services in Croatia. So one company, not as much as we have prescribed, can be as public notebooks as compared to the number of inhabitants in Croatia, but that it is one company that provides through its public service offices. I think that would be more sacrilegious if you said, even if we were talking about some powers regarding the same in the public interest of the technical examination of the vehicle, then it's not, that's the situation we have. One company has the public authority of a monopoly to do so. I'm not saying that it shouldn't be, I'm not saying that something bad is working, but why don't we just review it a little bit and open up that market and liberalize the story if we're already going with this goal that certain public institutions can now behave a little differently on the market, have a different way with their profits in the end line paying off their owners' profits, that's the essence of this law that we're making today. If this will lead to greater investment, to a higher market position, to greater competition and finally to a better service and to the achievement of the objective of why they have a certain public authority, then we welcome it, and this way we will, I announce to them that we will accept it. But I'd like a little bit more, more talk about such a few, a few such situations where some of the decisions from history are just being passed on and we take them for granted, and we don't know if it's all in the best interest and whether there might be a need to liberalise that part of the story that's part of the activity and the fulfillment of the public interest which is extremely, extremely important to the state. So maybe that's one of the reasons for that particular analysis that would lead to certain liberalisation in this particular example. I'm not saying that maybe not, but if someone did a certain analysis of whether opening up some competition would lead to, with the same quality of reducing certain prices that I think would be the ultimate goal, here's what needs to be determined and seen. Once again, the HNS Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179106	Thank you very much. Before we continue to welcome students and pupils from Šime Budinić elementary school from Split. They're coming in right now. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179107	Thank you very much. Here's what I said on behalf of the club I can only show my dissatisfaction with this makeup law. The institutions are very important for our citizens, which provide very important services, I mentioned the House of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County, I mentioned the way the director was appointed, you can remember once again I will warn you of the video given by a member of the administrative council of Split-Dalmatia County in the appointment of the director where he was involved in the Kingdom County, on the one hand opposed Boban, the mayor of the current and former mayor of Sanader, each pushed his own. They had even for mayors for their postmen, they destroyed their health homes because of the political appointment of directors. And that's why quality health care people leave, and the same way is when a school principal is appointed. Exactly the triba to be in 99.9% political card. If you do not have a card from the party that is in power in Split-Dalmatia or the coalition partner of Kerum's party, there is no way that man is progressing. And that's the message that young people doctors are leaving and that's why we have a demographic breakdown, we have empty two-thirds of Croatia, we have an empty Dalmatian Zagora, an empty which is perspective, which is based on Split. For what? Because of the political appointments of key people and directors of the institution. And that's the problem we need to talk about, not just about nomotechnical changes. Because the founder of the county, I repeat, Split-Dalmatia is probably the second political option in Istria IDS or I don't know if it's so that the system is functioning, I'm sorry that they're not colleagues in the IDS in Istria County also works that way. You destroyed, you destroyed literally politically, only by political appointments, you destroyed the development of the Republic of Croatia. This is why we have 100,000 people, here since Split-Dalmatia County and Sibenik-Knin founded from Dalmatia Zagora in the Zaoblja area from Krka to Neretva evicted 100,000 people, and in healthcare we have no pediatricians, we have no radiologist, as I said radiologist women in the ranks die I can't perform my breast exam in Zagor, can't you let them know if the doctors have gone? you have not invested in the specialization of these doctors, no pediatricians. Imagine how those doctors who are alone feel, and there are 3,500 children hundreds of thousands of children taking care of them, are their patients, and hundreds of children are waiting to solve their problem. That's the problem. The problem is the appointment of a director who is political and he is obliged in the Split-Dalmatia County, so in all counties, he is obliged later to hire only in the administration of his coalition partners who have a party card, his party colleagues and therefore went to young doctors outside. And that's why we have those 5% of GDP from our people that you've targeted with this appointing policy out there, and now you've got through the strings that pay your families 5% of GDP back. You have taken the dignity of the Croatian people that the most professional, the most qualified people if they do not have a party card can not be directors of the institution, they cannot, it is a very small example, very few people who are appointed to these places without a party card in institutions, in institutions where they are appointed, are named by political key exclusively trade. I'm talking about counties like the ones that need to be lifted immediately. I have run for mayor, of course, because of the fact that the election is not won by those who vote and candidates, but by those who count, and you know who counts in the areas of the team that have the infrastructure it will be in the future elections in Croatia, unfortunately so. We are far from democracy. In Croatia, those who count votes and bloat as much as they want to. It's simple, I can explain it. So you simply will never give control to control these processes. And you're okay with this law right here. It's not, sir... it makes sense if you work and your county so, it works for you. And since my Dalmatian Zagora is extinct, it's absolutely none of your business, what's gone out is that don't worry you. So of course you're working, here's a replica so tell me how the county works where you come from. It is exclusively named after the party key directors and these nomotechnical changes on institutions are so irrelevant. And even the principals you appoint in schools that have nothing to do with education were some lawyers and later went to universities outside of Croatia, they solved libraries, so even the mayor gives them a reward to have their portals to create as much pressure as possible and thank them for it, mostly attacking me, thanking them and becoming school principals. And you wouldn't give those counties for nothing. Is all the decentralised resources that should be in the interest of these children, these worse teachers they leave absolutely for your administration. They don't go where the triba goes, so we have empty schools in Dalmatia Zagora, Lica, Gorski kotar, Ravni kotari, Slavonia that's why we have empty unprocessed land in the villages. Why? Because people moved out. Why in Slavonia we have the most unprocessed land in the Republic of Croatia 700,000 hectares, why? Because you've evicted these people for appointing exclusively the political way of the director and the leaders. The institutions are so organized that the founder has so many powers. And, of course, that recording in which dr. Ivan... speaks to everyone that in the homes of health, in schools, anywhere you can't hire a porter without the knowledge of the Prime Minister. That's not what I'm saying. There was a postman from Mr. Now Secretary Political Sanader Ante, is that you fight, it's the kingdom, it's the feuds, the county's feuds, it's the lobbies for predominance. And what about the school kids, what about teachers, what about teachers, they're gonna move out the most professional and skilled doctors? Yeah. And now we have a problem, gentlemen, we have a serious problem, this isn't meaningful, this is a problem. The problem is that we don't have health services, the problem is that we have all the empty schools if people leave because of the way they're appointed, and that's the best-quality people who could create additional values. Can't be hired in Croatian institutions without a party card. It's a key problem. It is understandable that politicians, people from parties who have won power, should come to every function in the homes of health in those institutions that are important, in schools, in educational institutions, there must be people who are the most professional, and we want to find a way to get the most professional people to come here if we are not going to save this Croatia, we will move Croatia. 130,000 working permits were signed by the prime minister, the government signed for foreign persons while our people were moving out. We will empty Croatia, Croatia is without people. What do we need a state without people? But only because of this appointment and the way it can't be without a party card, you know, here's me, I'll get you a list of everyone in Split-Dalmatia County in institutions, you'll see that the institutions have to have a HDZ card, probably where the SDP, the SDP, probably where IDS, IDS doesn't matter at all, here at all... but it's important that without a party card, regardless of the expertise and quality of people go away. I would like to ask you once again, colleagues and colleagues, that this is a very important topic. I know you're in a hurry to go home Friday, it's weekend, you all want a little longer weekend. Someone may have a pig's car, someone's got their own, but we, as Parliamentarians sent by the people here, have to think about the facilities. So what happens at kindergarten levels is only here in my Sinj about the appointment of directors. What is the director's relationship with aunts that they must write to the child's attorney, aunts who fight for the good of our children. But why? Is politics having too much influence? I know that political functions, impossible for the political people to choose to have in key mines. Under emergency, Croatia should bring a list of political functions and those...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179108	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179109	Kolega Bulj, home of health of Split-Dalmatia County is probably one of the worst homes of health because only the leadership that has been set up by HDZ did not understand the problem of health care in Dalmatia, while, for example, here in Međimurje County we also have a home of health that functions well and everyone is satisfied that it is clearly saying that it is not a problem in people who work, it is a problem in people who are set up, and we know that in the Split-Dalmatia County HDZ has set up a director and fought the legs and hands that this director remains even though no one has been satisfied with him or the employees and not the citizens. Another problem that now arises in the Dalmatian county is this famous Hospital in Zagvozd where people need to go to specialist reviews, so let's say my people from Makarska when they have to go to Zagvozd have a bus coming back at six and a half night, so they'd have to sleep in Zagvozd to get health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179110	Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179111	Well, I'd agree, Makarska literally doesn't have a lab they have to send samples to Kaštel for review, how humiliated is the home of health, the Makarska tourist resort. I even asked at the the thematic session to be a tourist nurse, it was unanimously accepted, but nothing was done mainly in tourist times. So there's a unanimous assembly and they don't care, there's no tourist infirmary in the season. So stop, people who take out blood or other needs have to go to the health care center and send it to Kaštel's lab for inspection. From Hvar to Split when they smoke south, when ships don't go what? And this hospital, I know it's a county problem, but Split-Dalmatia County and Sibenik-Kninska. Here are the hospitals owned by Sibenik County this Hospital in Knin Croatian Veterans and General Hospital Croatian Pride, simply falling apart because the county does not care, the decentralised funds are exclusively for the engulfing of political alike and therefore my Dalmatian Zagora has emigrated.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179112	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179113	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have touched many topics, but in all discussions there is a more or less unique view that there are many things that in the system and institutions and in the system of public administration in the Republic need to be changed and many illogicalities that unfortunately have not been corrected today. Today, a little in the debate and through laughter, and I would say to the infidels, I would say, touch these issues of voters or the vote of the dead, and perhaps, as I would say, it would be interesting and laugh all together if in Croatia there were elemental security and belief that the elections were fair. And why doesn't that belief exist? Because the ruling party, the government does not want to give control in the presidential elections. We are justly afraid here, not because someone has this candidate or that one and now let's help, HDZ will help through the election boards of the presidents of the Republic of Croatia, it will take precedence over others. We fear for the democratic system and for what should be most valuable in the country, which is for the voter's vote to be crucial, not stealing in the elections, but for the voter's vote. Why doesn't HDZ want to give control of the electoral process? Which is why they insist that they in the local self-government unit, and in rural parts of Croatia, as a rule of the HDZ, decide on who will be a member of the electoral committee, who will take control of the process. And just the last time some of them warned about it five years ago, the difference was very small, it all seems that in these elections there will be a difference in the second round as well as in the first very likely. Both candidates and people involved in the process have rightly doubted that there will be a fair election match and many now and independent analysts say HDZ is preparing for theft. In the theft of elections, in a way that does not allow monitoring and multilateral election committees by the Republic of Croatia. And Laxinski said yesterday that counterpart Bacic is seeking an excuse for Zoran Milanovic's election defeat. So unless you have anything to hide from your HDZ colleagues, let them be multiparty election committees, so no one has any excuse for anything. But no, the president is aware that she will need that kind of support already in the first round because she is having a dangerous blow to her neck, Miroslav Škoro, and in the second round when de facto every vote is important, she will absolutely need that kind of support. And on that side, we must not, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all of you who are watching us today, allow the theft they are preparing in the presidential election. Because there's nothing, no other reason not to allow multiparty election committees, they just want HDZ control over it. And it's clear to everyone and it's clear here and Vice President Reiner and everyone else. And it is clear that we simply must not allow everyone to get involved, to simply go out and not allow Mrs. President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic to kidnap the second term. On the other hand, when we talk about institutions, it is clear that they need greater control in that segment. I was talking about how in the city of Zagreb a friend of Mrs. Grabar Kitarovic, mayor of Milan Bandic, who I see today, boasts that the advent is his child, child, and that he is proud of him. I don't know what you can be proud of when it's the most corrupt advent that exists in the EU where people rent a house of 3,000 kunas from the city and resell it for 50 to 100 thousand kuna to someone who will sell sausages or anything else there. So Mr. Mayor even boasts about how he managed to corrupt the entire Zagreb advent and set up a model that doesn't exist anywhere in Europe and he as a friend and closest associate of Mrs. Grabar-Kitarovic tells us about transparency. But not only that, it shows by its example that institutions do not need to work. So he replaced the successful director of the hospital, A leg that ran one of the major children's hospitals in the Republic of Croatia in Srebrenica, which raised the facility to one enviable level, which provided the facility with a European project worth 60m euros. And it would be the only such reference centre for children in the EU. Such a man had to go under the pressure of Mr. Bandic, a friend of our President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, had to leave his place because he couldn't take any more pressure, i.e. he had a huge pressure that this project and certain things related to this project of interest groups who obviously had their eye on it come up with certain interests and I would say jobs that could not come this way. And when we talk about institutions, there's one more thing to say. I was told by the secretary of state that The leg has the right to judicial protection and to complain in court and to exercise its rights. Unfortunately, the trust in the judiciary in Croatia is at the lowest possible levels. So we see that the State Election Commission is also not independent of the candidates who are in the election process. Well, ma'am. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic named Mr. Sessa, Mrs. Kitarović is de facto at the head of the judiciary, i.e. the man who led the judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia and people are terribly dissatisfied and the judicial system in the Republic gets the lowest possible marks for the work that he does. And on this side, I am absolutely sure that if we want to change things in the Ministry of Administration, in institutions, if we want to change things in the judiciary, if we want to change things that we don't have corruption in the city of Zagreb, that we don't have a corrupt advent in the city of Zagreb, if we want to change things in the Republic of Croatia so as not to create an injustice of historical proportions towards unskilled staff in schools as it is done and people are justifiably rebelled and dissatisfied with some union leaders, but I won't be able to get into their differences, it's important that those people who cook there and work for our children or keep schools for our children honest and to return some of pride can't be forgotten about them. If we want to change all this to the Republic of Croatia, then we must change the symbols of these injustices in the elections. And one of the biggest symbols of injustice in Croatia is President Grabar-Kitarović, who chooses the very points that people see as the most problematic point of transparency and about behavior and social consciousness and social circumstances that are happening with us. So, on this side, I am convinced that neither this one, and this attempt to steal through no election control in the presidential elections will ultimately not bear fruit and that we will finally start changing Croatia for the better and make it a normal country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179114	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179115	Comrade Maras, trust in the institutions is the most important trust that citizens should have, but it is obvious that these presidential elections will not be because watching last presidential elections in the second round were over 60,000 invalid ballots and we can say that these invalid ballots have also decided on the winner of these elections. We asked that election committees be multi-party, obviously HDZ is afraid of losing the election, and then it does not want to do so because there is a secretary of state, that the election committees appointed by the state administration or the county will not be party, because it will be de facto party, because there will be most people inside who are in this and that way related to HDZ. HDZ will try to steal these elections, but what I call on all citizens to go to the polls and not let HDZ steal the presidential elections as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179116	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179117	Thank you very much. A fellow Mrsic not only did they not give control of the elections, but even a logical request to sign the vote by hand when raising the ballots. Why? Well, because it's so much easier to steal someone's ballot and voice if they just round up and then insert a leaf, than even have to sign it. So, a proposal that is very reasonable and easy to explain, applicative and that would ensure greater, greater citizens' confidence that nothing is suspicious has been rejected from the HDZ. And therefore, of course, it is very important that all citizens be aware that the president won for the last time, and now she is in a much more difficult situation than she was then and now she will try to compensate for her shortcomings. Citizens must go to elections and stand up this thieving that HDZ is preparing in these presidential elections. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179118	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179119	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, that trust in the institutions is very important, but just by spreading these diabolical accusations you create a populist mistrust of citizens in institutions, and as a parliamentary representative you should right now do the opposite. You are very well aware of what the law says and that the election committees are impartial, are not determined by HDZ or by the state administration or by the county. They are determined by the DIP or other election commissions by vertical. HDZ has no fear of elections, nor of the election results. There are enough volunteers who will be observers and watch whether and how the elections are conducted, and you in the SDP obviously don't have enough people who want to be your observers. Also, any candidate may have observers and other independent organisations. This way, all those involved in the process are accused of being liars.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179120	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179121	It is amazing that the party's representative, who has held the Croatian government for almost 30 years, has been accusing others of not trusting the institutions. So it wasn't me who brought down the trust in the judiciary, Mrs. Jelkovac, it was the justice reform, and La Seks in the '90s when all the judges were chased or retired, and some others were brought in. Well, I'm not and I'm not breaking Mrs. Jelkovic's trust when Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't deliver documents to the Committee of Conflict of Interest because he doesn't want to be discussed there, he doesn't respect the law, he breaks the law, and he sends a message to the citizens that everything is allowed, so he ruins confidence in the system and in the institutions of this state. If you have no fear that something is going to happen in the election that is not appropriate, why don't you let us have elections as well as in other elections with multiparty election committees? Because you really don't believe it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179122	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go. Come on, fellow Maras, let's not exceed the time is continuous. Please, that I'm calling you just because my colleague Maras spoke his own, so you can't hear her anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179123	Vice President, I didn't hear. I didn't see it. I didn't hear it. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Yes, no, no, of course, of course.]] So, thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, everyone chooses a society where they feel good. It should therefore be no surprise that our president has chosen the company of Mr. Mayor of the City of Zagreb because it is a society in which he feels well and in some ways there are conversants who seem to think or think and live in the same or similar ways. We've talked a lot about Advent, but to get back to what we've been saying all along, we're talking about presidential elections. So we don't see any reason why this amendment to the law won't be because it has no reason to bother anyone, even moreover in that one horizontal alignment of all laws if the same election committees are in all elections there's no reason to be on these. And if the HDZ colleagues are so sure that they have such a good candidate I don't see any reason to show, so no, no matter what the election boards are, we have She's a great candidate, but she obviously has a problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179124	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179125	Well, it's as clear as day. Last time, and I'm not saying that, but a respected analyst, Kresimir Macan, who says he has the feeling that the election was stolen. And it speaks publicly through the media, if when President Grabar Kitarovic was presented as a young hope of excellent CV who came out to help Croatia and who then barely won the election by tens or slightly more thousands of votes that now after being surrounded by the biggest, I would say, under suspicion, corrupt people such as Bandic Mayor or friends Zdravko Mamic who organised birthdays and when people are familiar with the society she chose to get to 50% and did in the last 5 years is absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179126	Thank you very much. Now we're done with replicas that didn't have anything to do with the subject at all, but it's so common. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179127	You have injured Article 232 of the Vice President in connection with the conduct of the session. I'm asking you not to comment on counsel statements, it's not a duty. If you think the Rules of Procedure has been injured, make a warning, but don't comment on what anyone should have said here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179128	.../Intruder Reiner: I'm giving you a warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179129	So this is Croatian, this is the Croatian Parliament and we have the right to speak here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179130	You have no right to speak outside the subject and you know it, you have abused...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179131	.../Intruder Maras: But give a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179132	I let you abuse...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179133	.../Intruder Maras: Give a warning sir./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179134	... Rules of Procedure. I'm giving you a second warning now with taking away your words.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179135	Why give me a warning? [[/Intruder Maras: And for what?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179136	On the basis of Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179137	Okay, and for what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179138	On the basis of Article 241(1), I give you the distance from the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179139	Wait, why are you doing this? What do you want the incident?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179140	On the basis of Article 241(3), I give you the measure of distance from the double-term session.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179141	I really don't understand you. What are you doing this for?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179142	Because you're constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179143	Well, you didn't, now you've warned me for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179144	I warned you several times you're still talking, trying to argue with me, etc., you know you're violating the Rules of Procedure, you know very well that you're violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179145	This is invisible, this is invisible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179146	It's true, it's an unseen behavior of yours, not very often seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179147	You sit on that chair like something's coming into you, here, and I really can't understand it, like it's a haunted chair. Don't lead correctly, here's just, I just want to tell you, don't lead correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179148	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179149	Thank you, dear Vice President. I would like to take this opportunity just for a short while, once again, in fact that we here allow for the kind of liberalisation of public institutions to have their incomes or for the purpose of obtaining and paying off the same with the hope of the goal of better services and of all that the public interest is entrusted to them. We in the public sector have today and I just want to mention it here and take advantage of the opportunity that the representatives of the Ministry of Administration are there, agencies, institutions, associations, chambers, different foundations, companies, so plus all the state apparatus. What I've already suggested several times, I point out, I hope that something is working on it is one part that may be our cancer wound all these and what they have in common, and that's the receiving system in this particular state service. In fact, the proposal is to do this in one of the most transparent and efficient ways, to implement it independently, an external body such as the Education Assessment Agency modelling EU institutions, i.e. the European Commission, and that there is such a thing as: The EPSA institution conducting the tests ranks the participants and based on these results they have the right to apply for open tenders. Whoever's first will always have the championship. What's that gonna get us? Well, once and for all, it would remove suspicion of acceptance in any form of state service at least in what the state has jurisdiction, in the public sector, that there is no, to remove any doubt, nepotism, friendship, party similarities, belongings, all of it. Simply people apply for a particular sector, do their own testing, a single ranking list, when the need for work appears, the competition, they apply, they use that ranking, and they call the first 5, 10, 15 on that list. No matter who they are or what they are. We should move on, it would be an idea to start from the ministry first, so we can go on, to start putting order into that basic part of the public administration problem, and that's at the reception, and then in the second step, to talk about the evaluation of work within these administrations. These are two key themes, these are the two key directions that we need to go towards public administration reform. And to restore citizens' trust in institutions that are headed by politicians or politics. And I don't mean it as a bad thing because today to say that something at the head of politics is immediately a synonym for something bad that de facto shouldn't be but history teaches us that it is and is with the full right of people to think so. Let us begin to correct such things on what is seen to be truly the most qualitative, the most capable, the best pass and being admitted into the public service. I just regret that today we're still in a situation where the most desirable employer is the state. It tells us about the state of the economy we're in, it can't be like that. Is that safety, is that receiving good, all that carries it. The economy, the real sector, whatever you want to call it should be more desirable for those who are more successful because they can offer higher incomes and unfortunately not yet come to us. But since that's the case, it's more necessary to ensure that the highest quality comes here and that we enable this efficient service to the citizens and not always have that of 10 employees of them 4 who know and do something and 3 who can say something like that can get some passing grades and 3 that are there, you can't drive them out with a gun. And then that 3 and this 4 give such a negative picture and there are people who know, they will and they can only work out because they're all getting the same pay, but that's the other part of the value. So I say I took this opportunity once again, it's very simple, let's put it away, we give an independent agency that conducts the state's graduation according to the same principles as the state's prom, the secrecy, everything else and the single rank list, so let's just let that test be worth a year, and in that year only let those single people register and form as who logs in and then there's no need for any knowledge of relationships anymore, I don't know what, who does, because then it's known that the first person who sat down and who has the best results or the first 10 or how many more logs. And there would already be something going on by restoring this people's trust in the institutions, and that's very important to us. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179150	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179151	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable colleague Curaj, therefore also because of respected colleagues from the opposition who from the very beginning when the Secretary of State spoke about the final proposal of this law, you have now actually returned to the topic, and should say about the amendment and addition of this law in the second reading of three very important things for me. First of all, we also did the normative reform program, the national reform programme actually promised that and we are doing it now until the very end, so it's nothing new or unknown that we said in the first reading. Secondly, these amendments and additions to the law are actually regulated by the issues and the establishment and legality and powers of the administrative councils, so what is important and the third thing is now that founders as individuals because of the liberalisation of the market do not have to reinvest their profits but can benefit them in a way that they do in the market The most acceptable, that's the point of this law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179152	The answer of a respected representative, no. Thank you very much. Now I'm going to give a 10 minute break so that my colleague Maras can leave the hall. It's 12.55 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.56 HOURS]] Finally, on behalf of the promoter, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Darko Nekic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here at the end of this debate I thank, of course, everyone who participated in the first and second readings on all the constructive proposals they made and whose part we have installed in this final bill. So at the very beginning of my presentation, I stressed that it was limited changes and understood the meaning of all the statements of MPs who proposed and practically passed a new law in order to do everything the MPs asked for in their discussions, so it should certainly make a whole new law and I said in the introduction that these amendments and additions are limited, that they are limited and that they are also concerned with the fulfilment of the national reform programme and the harmonisation of Croatia's attempt to enter the European ERM2 course mechanism so that here, once again, I thank you for supporting the law in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179155	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll starve on it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-06-0.u179156	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Institutions, second reading, P.Z. No. 657. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 105 for, 7 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions. Excuse me, 7 abstentions and 10 against the passed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions. Honorable MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, good morning. Before we leave on the agenda, I would remind you that 20 years ago, the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. We were just at Mirojo where on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of the Croatian Parliament, we honored the first Croatian president and founder of the Croatian state. I would now invite you to the Croatian Parliament with a minute of silence to honor Dr. Francis Tudjman. One minute of silence. May his glory be eternal, and thank him! Praise him!
