ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130884	We will now start at the 2 points we need to discuss today: - Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2017. Reporter is the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment, based on Article 15. A law to encourage the development of a small economy. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Government delivered an opinion, would the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? I suppose that, the respected president of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments, Veran Vrbanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130885	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs. Here is a report on the work, i.e. the annual report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2017, which was made according to all those methodological requirements, the prescribed requirements and includes, in fact, all the key activities that HAMAG BICRO carried out in 2017. for our entrepreneurs, primarily micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, whom we then call a common name small economy. And in fact, according to all of our activities, they concern financial instruments of grants and support for development of capacity building for end-users, along with an appropriate financial report. So let's move forward, therefore, as regards the HAMAG BICRO guarantee, it continued its activities and way of working as it had been in previous years and as it had been in previous reports, therefore, primarily in guarantees, all those programmes that were prescribed and published in the previous period, and as regards financing certain activities, through the issuing of guarantees, i.e. first call guarantees, in which way the possibility and access to sources of financing primarily for investments, their investment projects, which are again financed by financial institutions, with which we have concluded agreements and sources of funding to cover these potential losses, according to these paid investment loans, takes over the state agency, i.e., we... During 2016, we have made a certain distance from the source of funding of this activity, in a way that, together with the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, we have signed one of the funding agreements in which we received an initial allocation of 150m euros from European funds intended to launch certain EU funding programmes. Thus, we have re-programmed and reprogrammed 58m euros in this package into a specific and concrete guarantee scheme, so that since 2017 we have also recorded the creation of a new financial instrument that we have called ESIF individual guarantees, and in some numbers, our activity in 2017 on this financial instrument is as follows. Therefore, a total of 161 guarantee applications were received from the National Guarantee Fund, 118 were granted, and of these 118, this is a volume of 155 million kuna. From this European part, 83 individual applications were received, 62 were approved and totald 241 million kuna. Together, when we sum up one and the other figures, we come up with some result of 396 million kuna guarantees issued, i.e. guarantees issued. Compared to 2916, and this is all contained in the report, it is evident that a certain drop in number, the amount of individual requirements, but in volume it is much more generous. The second financial instrument that was established, i.e. which was also established in 2016, started in the implementation of the end of 2016, so in 2017, loans were, therefore, the most expensive sources of financing for investments were the amount of this loan to 50 million euros, and the price, i.e. the cost of the entrepreneur, was actually only the interest which was between 0.5 and 1.5%. The instrument has shown incredible success among entrepreneurs, so we have actually spent the first 6 months of the total allocation that was intended for this instrument, and then we have added to the agreement with the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds twice that amount, so that we could get that loan refund dynamic and then finance further activities from that return. HAMAG and BICRO, apart from this part dealing with financial instruments, therefore guarantees and loans, performs the business of the second level business body, for the operational competitiveness programme of cohesion, so we together with the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts are two bodies involved in the design of the programme, verification of project applications, the negotiation and implementation of all those projects that are intended to finance the small economy. In this way, together with the Ministry of Economy, we worked together on evaluation and contract operations for 5 public calls, and in fact all contracts, which were completed in 1540 in 2017, were implemented. At the end of the year, when we settled payments on the requirements for supplementing the funds received, we reached a figure of 543 million kuna of paid grants in 31.12.2018, we came to a new figure of 2 billion. In fact, when they are summed up in this year, and I had the opportunity and yesterday to represent the activities of HAMAG BICRO on one forum, we came up with an analytical approach and by collecting all kinds of support both in financial instruments and in the part that deals with grants, we came up with a 9.2 billion investment that has been supported by the Croatian Small Economy Agency over the past 2 years. So, in addition to these activities directly funded by entrepreneurs, we are working intensively to develop support and capacity building and our partner institutions, these are all these development agencies, the Accelerator and the Incubators that are registered in a whole range of cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, in 2017, we applied and received a certain amount, so at the level of one million euros as a pilot project, that all of these division of PPIs, i.e. entrepreneurial complete institutions throughout Croatia, should be integrated into a common network, and precisely in order to enable entrepreneurs to have a cheaper and more quality school and to write some project applications and to prepare and implement the contracts that follow. Actually, it's kind of lower, shorter work in 2017. My colleague Marijana Oreb and I are standing at a disposition for any questions after the final debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130886	Thank you very much. We have a replica, a respected representative of the Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130887	Thank you, Vice President HS. The Honorable President of the Board. I have more of a question like this. In fact, it seems to me to me that this report has been well done here and we see that it is not, it is also seen in this report that the Republic of Croatia is not equally developed, it is seen in the activities of entrepreneurship. It seems to me that money has, however, according to the reports of this all in some cases, there are exceptions where there have been more, more than there have been funds, but in general it seems to me that there is still more money than there are people who are, entrepreneurs, individuals who are also legal people who apply. What do you think is causing this? A low level of education or simply problems that entrepreneurs face that they cannot simply apply because of their difficulties in business. What's the reason why I don't have any more of those to tell you about the application and the search for funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130888	The answer of the esteemed President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130889	So right now, to refer in fact to that part of the Operational Programme, competitiveness and cohesion for which Hamag Bicro and the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts are always much more applied than there is planned money. Because, therefore, it's exactly the opposite. So I guess that's not what I'm guessing, but I know the reason for that lies in the fact that the programming of this operational programme was done in 2014, 2015, and it's actually honestly wrongly planned. So, the interest of entrepreneurs is underrated. So we've moved over 300% of our plans on certain items and I know that both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Minister Žalac and Minister Horvat are working intensively on a re-location. These neutral assets, in other priority cases [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to make enough money to pay and finance entrepreneurs [[Intruder: Thank you.]] activities for which requirements exist. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130890	Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will be spoken by a respected representative, Zarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here's how well-respected.../incomprehensible... colleagues and colleagues are, I apologize, Mr. and Mrs. Hamag Bicra, I welcome you all. As the Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment is visible, it reaffirmed its key role in fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship through funding programmes through grants, guarantees and loans with more unfavourable interest rates on the market, as well as programmes to encourage development and innovation research. The report shows that Hamag Bicro in the previous period totalled 7.2 billion kuna investments. Financial instruments in implementation have experienced their affirmation during 2017 as quality and attractive instruments. In doing so, the ESIF is small loans with demand beyond all expectations resulting in the provision of additional funds from those products. From the analysis of your report on page 11 and 14, it can be concluded that Hamag Bicro approved 180 guarantees in 2017 amounting to 396 million kuna. The total amount of guarantees issued in 2017 amounted to 338 million kuna, which is significantly higher than in 2016 when the total amount was EUR 262 million. The average amount of guarantee issued in 2017 almost doubled compared to the previous year 2016 and the volume achieved was significantly above the previous year. As a result, ESIFs are individual guarantees with a minimum amount of EUR 150,000, Hamag Bicro has combined nearly 878 million kunas of new investments through financial instruments. In view of the new ESIF loans set up by Hamag Bicro in 2016 and thus made available to micro-small and medium-sized entrepreneurs almost EUR 45 million, 1315 applications were received in 2017, 1089 were processed and a large number was granted to me, a serious number of 631 loans amounting to Kuna 175 million, which prompted 205 million kuna investments. And I'm not going into this analysis now, although I've prepared myself in a very detailed way, in the last two to three years, Hamag Bicro has definitely set some new standards for financing micro and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, reducing interest rates to below 3 and up to 0%. If we return in 2016 then as Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts, today Minister of Economy, Entrepreneurship and Defence Darko Horvat stressed this fact as one of the key economic measures necessary for the growth of our economy and generally necessary for strengthening its internal but particularly export competitiveness. By insisting on exactly this role Hamag Bicra has shown the way to other financial institutions as well as how I serve the Croatian economy. However, allow me once again a little personal consideration on this whole topic today and on the work of this agency, and other supporting financial institutions that are important for the Croatian economy, for Croatian entrepreneurs and for Croatian craftsmen. To all those who understand the structural problems of Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen, the key challenges in the process of their technological development and the strengthening of competitiveness are generally clear that one of the key, their key problems, above all, lack of understanding and feelings of domestic financial institutions towards the domestic entrepreneur and the domestic craftsman. That is why, and because of the current government's success from year to year, it achieves serious results on the economic plan. We are talking about the surplus of the state budget on the continuing fall in public debt, on continued growth in exports and on the economy in general, on the continued tax discharge of our entrepreneurs, on the continued tax discharge of our citizens, and on the general consolidation of public finances, and we all see this together in never more challenging economic conditions when some of the inherited spirits of the past are unfortunately today topics that the current government must address on the economic plan, such as Agrokor, Petrokemia, the enormous dubios we have in Croatian shipbuilding. However, during the time ahead, I dare ask myself a few questions which are still a challenge and which we have not yet solved to the end, and which Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen are certainly looking for the answer in the time ahead. The question of short, rhetorical for the rapporteurs from HAMAG Bicra to whom I congratulate and commend him, do we have space through the HAMAG Bicra mechanisms in partnership with HBOR even more and more directly encourage Croatian production and Croatian exports? Can the HBOR, to a greater and better extent, meet the objectives of its existence? Can it work even more, better and more meaningfully in the interest of the Croatian economy? We must not allow HBOR to take over the philosophy of classical commercial banks at any time. Its mission should be exclusively to restore and develop the Croatian economy, the Croatian economy as a whole, strengthen partnership with Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen in all branches of the Croatian economy, move any unnecessary administrative and financial barriers, as many operational programmes as possible, and increase the production placement in the Croatian economy. It would also have to be a HPB policy that we should strengthen our commitment to the business of Croatian institutions, public companies, local and regional self-government and is closely placed in partnership with HBOR. The fact is that the growth of cca 3% in 2016 and which we have to date in continuity, for the first time in the history of the Croatian economy is generated primarily by increasing the exports of Croatian products and Croatian services. However, the structure of our GDP embodies that the share of exports to GDP is only 30 per cent as economic practices speak to a successful small economy such as Croatia and similar countries in the EU need to achieve a 70% share of GDP exports. Since a series of public companies such as HEP show us extraordinary financial results and create profits, can we at least transfer some of their success to manufacturing companies that are achieving a new added value of exports to foreign markets and thereby have a positive impact on our balance sheet and on the power of our economy in general. If the cost of electricity for the economy has been raised by 25 to 30%, how do we compensate for the investments that will be employed by our economy, our profession, our engineers, our Croatian domestic producers and encourage them to return to the domestic market some of what they pay to public companies, thereby somehow returning some of the values they themselves created with the goal of being more competitive and stronger in that part of their creation and work related to their export component? In the focus of the work of our economic policy, it must be that all available financial resources that we have invested in research, development, innovation, start-ups, and domestic businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen in general. The fact is that only the newly created product and service creates added value and enables the development of a whole society. That is why personally, and in the name of the economic business community with which I communicate daily and since I come from that part of Croatia that has a local surplus of 50%, means in the area where I come from, 50% is exported more than imports, I appeal that such programmes and such measures that encourage the creation of new values are further created. Only creating new values, creating products that someone on the foreign market wants to buy, is the only way towards a better and better life and living standard in Croatia as a whole. HAMAG Bicro has shown in the past few years the way it can be done. This should be applied further and even more to all state agencies, institutions, companies and in this sense to do everything possible to make Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen competitive on the domestic market and then in its exports. Finally, the HDZ Club congratulates you colleagues from HAMAG Bicra on your work and supports your report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130892	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which they will speak a respected representative of the Goddess Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130893	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vrbanec, the Honorable President of the Board of Directors, with an associate. Well, here's the job of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment is to encourage a small economy. So, help our craftsmen, our small entrepreneurs. The agency has been doing this for over 20 years, sometimes with less success, but it is also developing in step with time and we see according to the data that it is still progressing and is increasingly meeting the needs of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The key activities of HAMAG Bicro include activities from financial instruments and grants, as well as support for the development and strengthening of end-user capacity. The financial instruments shall be supported through guarantees loans with the possibility of subsidising interest rates. In 2017, a total of 5 public calls were made, 1595 entrepreneurial projects were carried out, totalling more than 5 billion kunas, of which the grant is 1.9 billion kuna. What is good is the maintenance of these information workshops because our entrepreneurs really like to come to them, to present themselves to them, but that they can also directly ask questions that are of particular interest to them in their case, not only to be informed through websites, through these various calls, and we support the fact that 19 information workshops and 58 executive workshops have been held and that they get the information of users who have already been through and are involved in the implementation of contracted projects themselves because there are often many concerns. In 2017, HAMAG Bicro approved 118 national guarantees worth 155 million kuna. In 2016, 220 national guarantees or 275 million kuna were issued. We have heard that this reduction is the result of the introduction of a new financial instrument and these are the ESIF guarantees. This is about individual guarantees issued in 2017 with 83 or more additional 241 million so that a total of 396 guarantees were issued in 2017 as we take the ESIF and national more than in 2016 when it was issued 275. We also welcome the introduction of loans, these micro and small loans where the interest was enormous and where additional resources were granted, perhaps the conditions themselves were adjusted so that our entrepreneurs could report, manage, meet the conditions and I think that's really good. The largest number of national guarantees in 2017 was approved for investments in Split-Dalmatia County. Therefore, most of the approved requests were related to the tourism sector where in 2017 there was not too much support, so that is why our entrepreneurs went to loans where they were then seeking certain guarantees. In 2017, the National Guarantee Programme for Farmers was also launched to facilitate access to financing of investments in the agricultural sector. Of course, farmers need help, and anyone who wants to invest in agriculture needs the help of the state. Because investments in agriculture are investments that are not, where returns are not expected in 2, 3, 5 years. These are investments where the return is very long. However, it is very important to see the business plans themselves, the projects themselves, because here we are still witnessing those guarantees that have been approved, which the state has approved for loans, for male cows, for the construction of standings that are now empty. When these business programs were done, they were made on the basis of guaranteed prices and they showed everyone that they would be profitable. However, the situation has changed significantly and these people are in a really difficult position. Banks are demanding returns from them, they are engaged, i.e. they are activated by guarantees given by the state, which, again, is expected to continue to execute the return. I don't know how much you'll succeed because many of them are no longer active. So these guarantees were issued for these loans, which were protested in 2017, amount to HRK 49 million. The most disbursements were made according to the CNB for the reconstruction and development of 22 million kuna. Actually, that's not surprising. Because when these loans were granted it was precisely the CNB that funded and most of these loans approved because the business banks at that time were not so interesting because they were already suggesting a certain risk but the CNB which actually serves to help all the farmers, and so it entered into that story and approved those loans. What was charged back to the State in 2017 is a total of these protested guarantees from previous years of 2.2 million kuna. And really, I think you should see and do an analysis of how much of these loans are still objectively possible to charge for these protested guarantees because I am convinced that most of these farmers no longer work. As far as the report itself is concerned, it's actually made transparent, we can't read it in detail. Even the 2016 comparative, 2017, which we even had remarks when we discussed in the 2015 Report. I believe there will be a report for 2018 soon, so let's see what the situation is not only about these guarantees and the protests themselves,... These guarantees and returns rather than whether or not we have significant progress in 2018. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know that financial instruments are changing, that it's a different structure, but generally, when we take into account all of this together, I believe that this information will be better than it was in 2017 and based on all of this data that we have read from this report. And what else to say, of course the HNS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130894	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is one of the Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130895	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Board of Directors with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll try to say in a few words what our club's position is about this report. The report is well, professionally done, so we have no objections, even more so in the report, to read a lot of diagrams and data and graphics, and then to see more clearly what was going on. The truth is again and again, what we're dealing with is about 2017, now it's 2019. But it's just like that. But not to be too long, not to talk too much about what is seen from the report itself, more perhaps what seems to me to be read and what is indicative especially here for the area of the county from which I come, it is Virovitica-Podravska County, it is one of the 5 Slavonian counties and generally counties that are less developed, developed because we have to agree that RH is territorially not equally developed, that there are areas that are more developed and not. What, and at first to say, other than the report, I had the chance, of course, to be at some meetings of the agency itself. The agency has, someone mentioned it, I think the colleague mentioned it in the previous debate 20 years already 25, it was before, before the Croatian Guarantee Agency. So, in that sense, traditions and experiences are enough. It was, of course, the angry individual entrepreneurs faced it, when they couldn't get the funds, because the people at the agency who did it professionally, when they were ovating, so they said it was just not worth it, at the time there was a certain anger, but I guess eventually these people were saved, if they didn't go into projects that were unsustainable, it's better that way. What's here, let's say what's important to me, is that it seems very important to me, on the page. 61 we see, one diagram, writes, review of newly opened jobs by invitation, e-insuls 2645, competence and development 2159 ICT 1524 etc. It's a very important piece of information, for example. What exactly have we achieved? How many jobs have we opened with our encouragement? The other thing that is harder to read from this report and I asked the President of the Administration and I am glad that the answer was the opposite of what I actually thought, therefore, the funds do not have enough in view of the interest in the operational part, so I think that there is, above all, talk about grants, I think that there is the largest, when we talk about financial instruments, it is still subject to a certain risk and should, despite the guarantees, have, however, an exhaustive project and a special colleague on the previous name of the club said that these long deadlines were sometimes the return of money and there should be quite careful. On the one hand, we have problems with the increase in EU funds, because we argue and the data show that we are not effective enough, and on the other hand here we have the interest of entrepreneurship and the president of the administration, your sentence, when you said that right now, we really need to see that underestimation of this entrepreneurial capacity, everything needs to be done to enable small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to access these funds, because it is important at the end and I think that this is a way to create jobs for the Republic of Croatia. All these delusions and in this House we've heard many times, big investments, some kind of investment cycle, I think the key to a solution to small and medium entrepreneurship, and when we give these people the opportunity to develop, it's going to get results. And according to this report we see two things, I say, undeveloped counties, there are fewer projects and other things we can see, I guess I'm wrong, but I think most of these funds have in those sectors that have problems, which are still low-profit, which have less added value,... the processing industry, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While information communication areas, there are fewer projects and there should be seen what to do, especially this BICRO when it joined HAMAG, that is, if you allow me to say and I was an innovator myself, and I even picked up some gold medals, but I have faced it quite hard, it is hard from the idea to get to the finished product, it is very difficult and in this sense, I think that the agency and other competent bodies, there are incubators, there are all these institutions that, supported institutions, which we have at our disposal, have to make more efforts to bring people closer to those opportunities, that people have more information and that they are applying and that they can't make that approach easier, but not so that there is, when we talk about HBOR that it doesn't happen then that the funds simply don't come back to us, to make the bear service, we can't allow them to achieve their objectives on the market. As regards startups, please, if you can explain just a little bit, it is not clear to me, as it is, is it really possible in the Republic of Croatia, since we are a small country, that we have a small market and that it is made possible only from a country with a large market, such as the USA, China, I don't know, is it really possible in Croatia to make a startup, and that this is not some kind of, that it does not spread to a global level, that, as far as I understand it, is a fast-growing company. We'll support the report and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130896	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude. And we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130897	The annual report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2017 is submitted by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion, the annual report by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2017 is accepted. I find it unanimous to conclude that it was proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130898	We are now going to the next point and that is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Foreign Exchange Act, first reading of P.Z. No. 355 It is proposed by the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the first reading of the law, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, time will be shared by respected representatives Branimir Bunjac and counterpart Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130899	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Representative of the Government, means, today, we are presenting amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act, which are part of a broader package, the main objective of which is to abolish so-called "exploitation". currency clauses in financial transactions. We have handed in parallel with this law in the procedure and the Law on Mandatory Relations, because in fact these two laws are complemented and the first thing we do not understand why today only this part of the law is in the procedure, meaning half of the law, and that at the same time the other half, which is its integral part is not in the procedure. There, in some ways, but in the beginning, how the ruling majority refers to the laws of the opposition, that it is in no way able to read them honestly, nor understand them, let alone show quality to them and debate them. Why is it necessary to abolish the currency clause? The currency clause needs to be abolished primarily for the reason that the Republic of Croatia has its own currency, which is the kuna and we need to seek as much monetary sovereignty as possible, means, as much use as possible of that kuna and as little use of foreign currencies as possible. This is, not only a reflection, meaning our independence and sovereignty, but is essentially a trend within the EU countries because other countries that have not yet moved to the EUR simply give up and rely increasingly on their own currency. I would remind, for example, of the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Iceland, which is not an EU member, but is a member of the European Economic Area, which even has conditions for the EUR, but does not want to introduce it and most importantly, the public is the same as in the Republic of Croatia, largely against, therefore, foreign currency. That currency clause is essentially one of a whole series of so-called. banking products which serve to transfer all the risk of business to one side only, which means that consumers are, and that they are, ultimately, being deceived in a way that they pay more than was initially presented. There is a whole other set of banking tools that the average citizen does not understand, such as the difference between annuity and war, paying in annuities and wars, using a reference interest rate, for example. We have Euribor and the National Reference Rate, through fixed and variable interest, etc., but in any case this currency clause has caused the most evil to the citizens, and we could say that literally hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens and tens of thousands of families have turned black, created a deep injustice in Croatian society that has not been resolved even today after more than a decade of problems have arisen. Of course, first of all, I mean the problem of the Swiss franc, the credit in Swiss francs, and indeed, if the citizens didn't know what they were up to with the Swiss francs, he could and had to know the governor of the CNB, or his assistants who received salaries of about 35,000,00 kn and whose only task was to regulate the financial market. They could and had to know that the Swiss credit fraud had already already been realised on another continent called Australia, where they were also placed and loans in Japanese yen, and of course, ordinary citizens, specifically farmers, who therefore fell into debt slavery from which they could not get away with in any way, and they were threatened by the loss of their entire assets including the properties they lived in. The Australian government, which is much more capable than ours, more spotty and quality, was about 10 years old. to undo all these loans, to restore the situation to the old and to save, therefore, its own citizens from the negative consequences of these loans, it happened in the 1980s. What happened in Australia was copied into the Republic of Croatia and some other countries in Eastern Europe, so in countries where simply people had not had enough experience and then they were forced by propaganda by these loans from, by Swiss francs, which they overpaid multiplely, multiplely, so someone literally credited 50,000 Swiss, eventually had to pay 150 000 Swiss, which means almost 200% of the estimated amount as originally agreed. For those of you who have short memories, I know that Mr. Schucker has a great memory, not for him as former finance minister, this is a 2008 newspaper article. in Free Dalmatia when the Swiss franc jumped from 4.4 kuna courses, 4.00 kn for 1 CHF jumped to 4.8, so it jumped by 0.40 kn or about 10%, and at that point it started panicking among the users of the savings and they crowded into the banks because they had to pay, so 10% more war than last month. At that point, the banks bought, I suppose, a whole series of newspaper articles on the cover, as is the case here in Free Dalmatia, where, here, a concrete expert on the sale of Split Bank, Zvonimir Akrap said that within 6 months the Swiss franc course would return to the old levels and that it was always the currency of refuge and that it would remain as such. So, until the last minute and after it became clear that disaster was being prepared, the banks were through the media, with media cooperation convincing the citizens that it was just, let's say such a tiny side that would come up very quickly. The course of francs, not that it didn't stop at 4.8, not that it didn't stop at 5.8, not that it didn't stop at 6.8, but that the course of francs at one point fully equated with the euro, which means it was about 7 kn and 30 limes. And now you can imagine how someone who took a 4-4 loan felt when that same loan jumped the course to 7.3. Of course, banks have made the situation even more difficult for debtors, which, in parallel with the raising of rates, raised interest and interest. So they also raised interest on loans, by 1-2%, and so simply the debtors who were previously spoken, here in particular this case that the Swiss franc is the currency of refuge, literally thrown on a beggar stick. So they were thrown on a beggar stick and many unfortunately are still on a beggar stick because of these loans. Many, even today, these people are both under the covers and under the blocks and humiliated and without money, and many have had to move out, one good part moved to Switzerland to earn this famous franc in order to repay credit, and unfortunately there have been cases and quite a lot of that, that people are mentally ill, committed suicide or some simply died. So you died of the shock that caused them, I remind you of the case of a young girl, 20 and a few years, Ivana Mandic, who died during the talks at the bank, or right after that. And the simple government was, couldn't glare before these problems and then they started post-festum, so eventually introduce some measures that didn't solve this problem. One was a famous balloon introduced by the then Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, where one part of the capital was paid, and the other part was left for later, but for the other part the principals went to interest and in the end the main part was returned to the old capital, so that people happened to pay for the loan war for 7, 8 or 10 years and eventually did not pay off any of the principal francs. So you paid for 10 years, I don't know 400 or 500 thousand kuna, and in the end you had the same principal as you had the first day of the loan. Finally, a Living Wall appeared, which began to exert pressure not only on the Swiss franc but on the dissuasion, execution, blockades and so on, the very valuable Franak Association appeared, we had protests big, one here in front of Mark’s square, and then somehow before the election, Finance Minister Boris Lalovac was encouraged to carry out the conversion into the euro, but this conversion was carried out according to the state of credit on the day of conversion, and not according to the state of credit on the day of the credit. As a result, citizens are protected from any further problems, but remain at a loss of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of kunas, i.e. 10 billion kunas, which banks illegally, illegally and unfairly have taken away with the great assistance of the CNB and the ruling majority of them. The living wall now wants to solve the root problem with this bill of amendments to the law. And he wants to prevent any new Frank case in the future in a way that credits can only be given in kunas. Pay in kuna and there are no earthquakes that can occur in international financial markets that could cause too much damage to Croatian citizens. A team before the euro could soon become a new Swiss according to numerous announcements. So there is no guarantee that the exchange rate of the euro will remain as it is, it is nice that it is now stable for what, 20 years, but there is no guarantee because we see that the European Central Bank is also printing large amounts of the euro, that the European economy is not fully stable, we see that the change in interest rate policy is announced, and in any event, if that exchange rate or interest rate changes by just a few percent, again Croatian citizens will be in a position not to be able to pay their loans. So, in short, this law aims to protect citizens, protect citizens. Not protect the banks. Because the currency clause primarily protects financial institutions, it's for them, not citizens. So we're going to go after the old one now, and that the citizens are in focus, not that they're in the focus of the bank. So the banks stole 10, 20 billion kunas based on the exchange rate difference, it's now time for citizens to come on their own, and now it should actually be citizens who, not only are protected but possibly those who will even profit from the changes to the law. I would like to remind this particularly Mr. Akrap and all the smart guys who wrote these paid articles, that even today, today, here is the 1st March 2019 course of Swiss franc 6,52. I would remind you that there are still many citizens who have not converted because they still believed that the course of francs will fall and that the worst has passed, but as we can see, it is not. How does the government refuse this law? So we've got the government's opinion that rejects this law. The government says, among other things, you haven't made an assessment of the effects of the regulations. So in this tall home, out of the 100 laws to be passed, 98% of them have no assessment of the effects of the regulations, e.g. The LNG terminal or the Law on Protected Rentals, and then we should have this argument, which means it's not applicable to the laws of the parliamentary majority, which applies to the laws of the Living Wall, which makes this government more ashamed and shows that it's only looking for some kind of excuse, some kind of bureaucratic impediment, let's say that this law would refuse, which would result in the ruling majority being legitimateized as a representative of large capital and a representative of foreign financial interests. For this reason, I call on MPs to act according to their conscience, to serve the arguments in this debate, and in some ways, at the end of the day, to achieve at least that, that this law be properly discussed and go to another reading as such. I believe that you yourself assume that regardless of this wasteland in the Parliament, that the Croatian public is watching you, that 60 thousand families, who had loans in Swiss and hundreds of thousands of other families that have loans in euro, or, with a currency clause, which could quickly come under the pressure of the same families, we're going to say so, the manipulations that took place in 2007 and in the period when 7 banks were giving credits in Swiss. So much for now from me, thank you very much, I leave the word to Agent Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130900	Dear Representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130901	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian people are at some sort of turning point. This turning point means this, it can choose between being independent and modern on the one hand, that's the one we advocate and the other time it's to be addictive, subservient and in the service of some other policy, some foreign forces, entities, etc. Why is this a vital question? The point is that we were convinced all the time, that it is in the interest of our country, that we should submit to the EU. However, what have we received from the EU? We have received a more consistent statute of our Central Bank with the Statute of the European Central Bank and thus we have lost power over the creation of money, i.e. the state cannot be financed directly from the Central Bank. It's the first thing, the second thing is that according to these directives of various, we recognized all the foreign banks, it was the second step in the loss of monetary sovereignty. But the third and key step is to establish a currency clause. It means that loans to Croatian citizens and businesses and even to the state itself are counted in foreign currencies. Such a model has brought many citizens into trouble. All I'm going to do is give an example of a Swiss franc. People jumped credit wars, and then the state tried to sort it out, but it never damaged those people, it was the second pair of gloves, and then the third pair of gloves came. There is now a situation with RBA cooperatives from Austria, which have done business in Croatia without the approval of the CNB, although this is obvious, it seems that, in the end, because of the collapse of the law on the integrity of the credit agreement with unauthorized creditors from abroad, citizens will, after all, appear to be being executed, respectively. What the Living Wall is looking for is monetary sovereignty, we're asking that the CNB has a role, in some way the Treasury, that it finance the state, directly, without intermediaries making money in the state, money from its own central bank, as is currently the case. We also want credits in Croatia to be all in kuna, not in foreign currencies and changes to the Foreign Exchange Act as well as amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, which we have referred to in the procedure, to go in this direction. Why is this law important? Because the goal is to establish the kuna as a currency. If you denominations in foreign currencies, you actually deprive yourself of monetary sovereignty and you take the kuna what it should be, you take away the role that is intended for it and that is the means of paying and subsisting liabilities. Some think that the current status, which kuna has status quo, means what it is today, will remain so tomorrow, however, no, no, not dear people. The Marionite Quislin government's goal was eventually abolished and replaced by the euro. So you see that this time undermining the strict will, the statutes of our central bank, the statute of European central banks, the denomined obligations that our citizens have in euro instead of in kuna, by accepting the jurisdiction of the European Court, which destroys Croatian laws and thus puts, citizens, at the mercy and mercy of the RBA cooperatives from Austria. This system of submission to other people's will, in a way, leads to foreign entities asking us to give up our currency, to give up it, and to actually reject it and take the euro. So by introducing the euro, the final me would say, the final act of one financial drama, which will seduce Croatian citizens into black, because their costs will rise, many things will accumulate, and nothing will be cheap. Of course Plenkovic explains that coffee will collect 2 limes, that is, his interpretation. However, we know that in countries where there was a substitution of local currency by EUR means either German stamps or Italian lira, there is currently a significant purchase of many products and services, even in Slovenia. And with those claims, it's like it's picked up for inflation, look one thing inflation from year to year, but here we're not discussing price hikes with time going on. We are here discussing a sudden rise in prices after the exchange of local currency, foreign currency or EUR. That's what ladies and gentlemen are talking about. Finally, if the EURO is introduced, it is clear that we will lose the right or the ability to manage our own monetary policy or control it. If this law is not accepted, and according to the government not only does it not want to abolish the currency clause on loans, that your obligations are in foreign currencies, it wants to abolish our kuna currency as well. This is the last act of drama, prepared by HDZ authorities for citizens who are not really aware of what is ahead of them. Some are aware, however, that most citizens are against the introduction of the EUR and we are the only political party in this assembly, which openly and clearly says that EURO should not introduce that the foreign exchange clause or the currency clause should be abolished, that citizens should be protected from the operations carried out by foreign credit institutions such as the RBA cooperatives from Austria, that they need to change the executive system in a way that the costs of implementation are reduced, etc., etc. What is a question is what citizens will do on election day, whether citizens will accept this system, whether citizens will support a policy that leads them to ruin or decide to change. The choice is only for citizens, and we cannot bring that choice instead of citizens, but only citizens, and we can only represent their choice. The elections for the European Parliament are actually elections between the two policies, policies of service and obedience to Brussels, policies of losing our country's sovereignty, monetary occupation policies and the rejection of our currency by means of a better currency, our customs and our culture by means of a better culture and customs. By rejecting our system of values and accepting someone else's, by rejecting our language and accepting a foreign one, and at the end of the day, you know for yourself and replacing our products with foreign products at the end, as I said at the very beginning and taking our currency and replacing our currency with foreign currency. It is a programme that has parties that are obedient to Brussels. The living wall has one program contrary to that and it depends exclusively on the citizens which policy will take place in our country in the long run. Since all these problems did not come overnight, it is clear that they cannot be solved overnight. Why? Not because we do not have the political will to do what we want, but because it takes a period of time for the parties that are currently in the majority to be in the minority, and those currently in the minority to be in the majority. Unfortunately, there are many political parties that are represented by the media as an opposition to the Croatian public, but the Croatian public should wonder, if the media represents and pushes these parties and candidates, whether they may be these parties and candidates who promote the service and the elite that is loathing us, whether these parties are actually avoiding or keeping silent about these issues that I have now spoken of for reasons that are obedient as well as those which I am currently saying are falling political power. It is a question that citizens should ask themselves, who is the sincere opposition, who is not the sincere opposition, who is really against the system, who is actually serving the system. I'm afraid of what I've seen that there are a lot of citizens who think they're supersede counter-systems, and they're actually thinking about giving their voice to the options that this same system represents. Repeating the same mistakes will not result in any different results. The people who brought us here where we are can't get us out of trouble, and the system that got us into these problems is not the system that's going to get us out of them. And for this reason, I call for a change in the state of mind, to support the voters of the Living Wall in the European Parliament elections for their own good, because if this policy continues, the price will have to be paid, and that price will be very expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130902	Thank you, we have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130903	I thank the Vice President here is just for the public's sake, maybe I'll say another medal for the story, so if we really did cancel the currency clause, for example, if not so much in the history of the late 1980s in Yugoslavia when there was no currency clause, too, when we were in '89. They had over 2600% inflation, and when citizens were doing their own business at the time, they did everything possible in German brands. So, apart from removing the currency clause would collect loans, so they would directly disable citizens and collect loans in kunas, we certainly for a country that has foreign reserves in euro, which has 75% of these savings citizens, so now you're saying that 75% of the citizens are fools that are saving in euro, 60% of the trade with the Euro zone, so Croatia too would work to bring in practically one... Position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130904	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130905	Mr. Curaj, you've said a lot of things illogical, but since the Rules of Procedure is such that it limits me to the possibility of answering all the three thesis that you have presented, I am now asking that on behalf of the Proposer I speak for 5 minutes and actually explain what is controversial, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130906	Of course you have that right. Here you go. ... There is another replica before my colleague Pernar will speak, and the replica will have a respected representative, Grozdana Peric, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130907	It is important for the public to say that 83% of citizens have savings in foreign currency, so mostly in euro. What it means is that such a bill would also eliminate the preservation of citizens. That's the other side of the medal this bill doesn't talk about. If we are talking about the foreign exchange law itself and the decision made by the CNB, then it is clear exactly what conditions can be done and done in foreign currency. What about workers who are employed outside, who are also receiving foreign currency, pay, what about foreign exchanges, what about agency services and tourist traffic is very important? So you have to look at it completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130908	Thank you. Would you like to answer? No, I don't. Then he'll be on behalf of the proposer. ... No, that was your replica. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] There will now be an opportunity to express his thoughts, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130909	Dear Representative Curaj, you said that if the currency clause was abolished, there might be a major inflation. However, in order for inflation to occur, two factors are needed. One factor is so-called. foreign exchange imbalances or that Croatia does not have foreign exchange imbalances, for example Exports are twice as low as imports, i.e., exactly, that our exports are much smaller than imports and that we do not have foreign exchange revenues from tourism at the same time. So if we had a situation to get out of Croatia a year, say, 10 billion euros and 5 billion euros, then there would be the possibility of inflation. Another thing, if there was the possibility of inflation, i.e. If the budget deficit were very large, it would mean that it would be 50, 100% or whatever. However, what we have in Croatia, we have a foreign exchange balance because the deficit in the external trade exchange compensates for the revenues from tourism, so we have a balance on the one hand, on the other hand, our country's budget is relatively balanced, so when you look at the revenues and expenditures of the budget, then you will see that the deficit is negligible and there is actually no need to print some enormous amount of money that would create a lot of zeroes on the bills. The other thing you said was that if a foreign currency clause were lifted, foreign currency savings would be abolished. That's also a lie and here's why. At the time of Yugoslavia when loans were all in domestic currency, in dinar, then people could save in foreign currency and it was called foreign savings. Why? Because no one is defending you if you have 200 euros to put 200 euros on the bank. And that 200 euros in the bank, you stored your money there, and if the bank wants to lend you credit in the time of Yugoslavia, it wasn't the bank in those foreign exchanges that loaned you the business bank of the Yugoslav People's Bank, and then it gave you the dinars as a loan. You understand? So, the source of money for lending in Yugoslavia wasn't the currency savings, it was the dinars from the National Bank of Yugoslavia. And why am I telling you this? Because in your mind, perception is next. That loans come from deposits or that people save money, and then they give credit even though the truth is the other way around, that will explain to you any person who deals with monetary policy, the first thing that comes from these loans is by abolishing the currency clause on loans or the currency clause in payments. That doesn't mean that you won't be able to have a foreign exchange account and that you won't be able to have an inflow from abroad into your foreign exchange account or that you won't be able to send money from your foreign exchange account. We are here exclusively talking about the business of entities within the state and that entities operating within the state of their obligation, meaning I am talking here primarily about the loan, about the payments of services, they can, or on our proposal, have to be expressed in domestic currency. That's the point of the whole story and you're going to make a transaction from one foreign exchange account to another inside the country, that's a whole other thing, what's key is that the accounts are in kunas and that the loans are in kunas. There's no fear of inflation. Fear that if there is no currency clause on loans, there is no savings i.e. that a man can't have a foreign exchange account and on it's armed money, he's also a fake and you know that interest on you are currently on savings in a foreign currency near zero, so the bank that money de facto only keeps and shows that your fears are unwarranted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130910	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130911	Here's to be clear, it can go backwards when I talked 85% of the savings in the euro, my colleague said 83%, in general foreign currencies, I referred to the introduction of the euro, so it means that citizens are against the euro and 75% of the savings are right in the euro. When we talk about inflation and Yugoslavia at the end of the '80s, it's already a prose example where we had what you're proposing at the time, and I was saying first of all that by this law, if God didn't give it to us, first we have a euro-covered currency, it would have to change, there are huge risks, secondly, the price of money of these kunas and risks would go to heaven and citizens wouldn't be able to practically lift loans and the whole system would have fallen and then it would have been that you wanted to print money and by printing money increased the number of monetary units compared to production services and led to inflation in the most frequent case of hyperinflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130912	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130913	You, Mr. Curaj, are saying that if the currency clause were to be abolished and monetary sovereignty was established, that interest would be raised on these kuna loans, that citizens would be in debt i.e. to make it harder to borrow, to be the problem of actually over-indebted, etc.,... However, in order not to be in debt etc., the truth is the other way around, in the meantime when such a system was, when loans were in dinars, citizens were able to borrow without problems, interest was not interest, after 10 years of repayment of the credit was not twice as much as they were in the beginning, but rather, the citizens were only then actually able to repay their loans without any problems and there were no problems about the lack of knowledge, high interest on over-indebtedness, precisely this system as you advocate has led to all the problems that you are referring to. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130914	The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130915	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pernar, how can you say that when we introduce the euro when we have our wise Prime Minister who said that prices will rise by 2 June? So it will not be such a blow to Croatian citizens as you expect, so coffee will cost 7 kuna and 2 June instead of the previous 7th, despite the analysis made in Slovenia these days, which shows that the price of coffee has jumped 48% since the introduction of the euro and the price of bread around 50%, the price of beer, etc., and the Slovenian citizen despite all the increases he received by staying in the EU, today he can buy 800 coffee and before the introduction of the euro could buy 900 coffee. So there seems to be something wrong with it, or Slovenian analysis or the Prime Minister's imagination, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130916	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130917	Dear Representative Bunjac, so I think that actually our Prime Minister Plenkovic is working out of all of us fools, to convince us that it's black white, white black, it reminds me of his time founder of Jesuit order, I think that Ignacija Loyola, he said even if the wall is white, if the Pope says it's black, I'll believe it's black. And that's one blind faith to the authorities, and what we have in Croatia today is a semitronic relationship with the authority where if some authority from Europe tells us or let's say the governor has no congregation, everyone will simply repeat after him that there are no gatherings, although we all know that the collection will come in such a way and that we, as a society, are going to face the fall of purchasing power, or are in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130918	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next club and that's the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of whom the respected representative Dragica Vranjš will speak. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No, I don't. Then does the representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and the first to take part in the debate will take part in the name of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the esteemed representative Ivan Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130919	Thank you, Chairman. Today we have this law in the debate, he's connected to another law that a colleague used to talk about, and I'm sorry that the one who brings the agenda didn't realize and recognize that he didn't even care that it was one package but it doesn't matter. In addition to what was said earlier, two cases should be distinguished, one is when I bring 100 marks or euros into the business bank and put it on savings and after some time I get 250 marks and the bank pays me 250 marks or euros in stamps or euros. And the second is when I bring in, say, 1,000 kunas, so I tie it to a currency clause, and then as the exchange rate changes, that's how it affects my deposit, and then after a while I get some amount back, but not in foreign exchanges, but in the same currency that I gave. Also, that money, that 1,000 kuna I could tie to actually anything, I could, I don't know, put at the price of oil if someone would offer me either with the popularity of HDZ or anything, it's just a matter of mathematics. So that's two cases where we bring the stamp, we get back the stamp, where we bring the kuna, we tie it to the stamp or the euro or something, and we get back after a while our currency kuna. The same thing was with the Swiss. If someone raised 100,000 Swiss people, or the franc of credit, how many francs were there in the story? Perhaps 10 thousand of these francs were generally not, these francs were generally not, behind them stood the kuna or stood the euro to the most extent, only to a lesser extent entered the actual franc. These loans were only tied mathematically, the formula for that currency, could be so linked mathematically to anything and then according to that formula, the war, the anuity, but everything else that goes into that story. So these are two things that are often mixed, which should be distinguished and that our citizens have largely, as far as saving, saving in foreign exchanges, brought in foreign exchange and, one day, when raised in savings, they will receive a foreign exchange. This has nothing to do with the clause, only a small number of savings are related to the clause and are subject to the deposit clauses. The clause also refers to loans, which is the opposite process. We had a timely warning from Mr Rohatinski, there somewhere in mid-2000 that the currency clause was extremely harmful to the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian economy, Rohatinski, I do not have a good opinion at all about him, he is one of the undertakers of the Croatian economy and monetary sovereignty and if you want a bank agent, but in that case he said a good thing, that at that moment we had a position to go very slowly with the process of Kunization, to reduce the influence of the euro, however, the Parliament did not recognise it or acknowledge it, and you can look freely at Mr Rohatinski's testimony on the Assembly Committee for Agrokor, where there, he repented and admitted that it was and why it was. When we talk about the currency clause, first of all, we talk about modernity, about expanding a little story, sovereignty, that is, control over our own territory, over our own country, that is, making decisions in accordance with the opinion and attitudes of most voters, i.e., the people, is the basis of the policy of the Living Wall. Who controls our money today, the Republic of Croatia? Unfortunately, it is not controlled by either the Croatian people, nor its representatives, but as regards the CNB controls this narrow click, around the governors of one and the other and the third and his advice, they are involved in writing their laws on the CNB, we have seen today, about the Law on the State Office for Audit, which will make it even more difficult to see what is going on inside, which will further reduce the transparency of that institution, in breach of the constitution, by putting a private audit, which works under orders for money, above the State Audit, which actually, whose head is appointed by this Parliament and which should provide us with analyses of how and what it does, business, so that we can make the right decisions and policies. As far as the monetary story is concerned, as far as the credit story is concerned, we know that about 95% of our banking market, I'm talking about business banks, they're holding foreign banks, but from Austria, Italy, Russia, that is, if you want Hungary, so we can't, we don't really have where to finance our policies. Ask small Croatian craftsmen, ask Croatian farmers, ask entrepreneurs, under what conditions and how they can obtain credit. It used to be a nightmare, and today it's very difficult, that's how she recognized HDZ, so in time we'll start a agricultural bank, AGRO bank to pump money into agriculture, there's nothing without investment. Agriculture will not rise on its own. Someone has to invest money or the Croatian government through subsidies or AGRO bank via some credit or HNB in a number of ways, unfortunately, it is forbidden or foreign investor, someone has to put money in that system, so it can develop. However, we know of agriculture, or AGRO bank will be nothing, it is one HDZ pre-election lie, i.e., spin of Mr Plenkovic, just before this point we had a report by HAMAG BICRO on the burden of financing agriculture using micro credit they have transferred to HAMAG BICRO in a much smaller amount than it is necessary and, of course, too late because the mild passage through Croatian villages, speaks in which state we are. So we have no control over the money, nor on its creation, nor on its distribution. As far as the media is concerned, the strongest media is just under control, i.e., owned by foreign corporations, we don't have media modernity, if I'm not mistaken, there's even law in Canada, let's say only 20 or how many percent of strangers can own a particular medium. In Croatia we haven't thought at all at that level, as far as energy is concerned, and we are at relatively low branches with a decline trend, several times already tried the attempted privatisation of Croatia's electricity industry, with this trend going on, as HEP is likely to be shifted to LNG losses. We know what's going on with the INA, it's recently under the cover of the European directive, or regulation, passed law, that we're actually giving up all the rights we had in INA, and that we haven't been covered by it for 10 years, Mr Orban is making energy policy, then, asphyxiating our INA, with the goal of making it an ordinary branch. It is a Croatian plan, and that is their plan, and the Croatian plan is obvious to help them. As far as legislative sovereignty is concerned, we are also on the smaller and lower branches, while once the Croatian Parliament, said Mr. Tudjman if I am not mistaken that there is only God above him, or if you want Croatian people, today we are in a position that this is in some way a theater of absurdity. According to Mr. Seks, decisions are made outside, and we were formally able to hear that two-thirds of the decisions actually come from Brussels, which we are discussing here, but even if we vote negatively, they will apply. There are also various lobbys affecting Croatian sovereignty, not to go into detail now. As far as information infrastructure is concerned, we do not have our own national information infrastructure, or communication infrastructure, we have handed it over to German HT and now some small money is being paid on the basis of the right of service, and they are playing with that money as they wish, so they are pulling it out in Luxembourg, Montenegro, they are constantly moving the headquarters, paying the management contracts, while we pay very expensive services, while many people from that company are firing, while they are not investing in the infrastructure, at the same time, we are starting Europe in this digital development index. So we're also very weak in that field. The question is, in a few years' time, are we going to decide anything or anything in our country? If this trend continues, of course we won't, and that's why this policy needs to be brought to an end. As for the currency clause itself, which is one of the pillars of this story, because whoever does not control money and money mass in his country, or its key part, does not actually control anything because, without money, we have very weak levers at our disposal. We do not control the CNB, we do not normally control credit institutions, except, for example, Croatian banks and HPB and a little HBOR which is not a business or investment bank. In that position, our policies are being tailored and implemented by corporations and foreign governments. In the context, therefore, the introduction of the euro also raises the question of the currency clause, so the question arises, which when the new crisis comes, the new economic crisis, and they come, regularly come, are economic cycles in the existing financial system. Will Europe, or the EU, or the euro zone survive such a crisis? The last crisis in 2008, let's remember Mr. Monty's statement of that time, we have three months to save the euro and so forth. Let's look at today's state of Europe and the euro zone, one project that, in any case, has at least crossed its peak and is falling in a trend, if not close to its end in absolute terms or at least in the form in which we know it. And the recognition of this is five possible ways to develop Europe that Mr. Junker made some year ago. What happens to countries that have the euro in case the euro zone collapses? Who will accept responsibility in that case? Has anyone asked that in the Croatian government, the CNB? No, that's not even being discussed. But it's one-sided and biasedly pushing that story as it's going to be better for us, and here I am listening to Mr. Prime Minister's statements yesterday, as why the euro is, because it's a big world currency, as it will be better for the financial system, it'll be better for the economy, and so everything stays on some kind of general thesis, on the flossulas. Well, in any context, anything we can say is good for the economy. That's good for the economy. And with such marketing aspirations without a proper public debate, no entry into the essence of these key decisions is made. Since I'm only two minutes away, I'm only going to take an example of the Dubrovnik Republic. We can ask ourselves whether this glorious part of our country was rich for centuries long in that position and in that glory because it was rich or because it was free. What's the cause here, and what's the consequence? Was Dubrovnik rich because he was free or free because he was rich? Dubrovnik was rich because he was free. Just out of freedom, from focusing all the strength on your strength, on the people around you and on the well-being of yourself and the people around you, that's exactly what all progress can be on. Based on other people's power centers, relying on other people's money, on other people's infrastructure, on other people's energy, means that we're addicted, so we're not asked about these issues, or we're asked very little, or we're only formally asked, and whenever you're looking for a strong state in history, a prosperous state, you'll always find it's a free state, that it's a state that has sovereignty, not a state that has entered any alliances, associations, not thinking about its own interests. Croatia has clearly been repeating its mistakes since Stjepan Radic, Pacte Conventione or as much as we want to go on in the past. Being a small, small country, both with surface and population, is a fact that we can't change or very difficult to change, but being insignificant and addictive, that's a choice. And that's why we've put this law in the process to end this addiction, to focus on ourselves and our strength and to develop our economy with our money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130920	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative of counterpart Vranjš will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130921	I thank the Vice President, thank you to the proposings and respected colleagues and colleagues and in the name of the HDZ Club, since we have opened up in this debate for an hour a broad range of topics, the most important thing about the currency clause that has hit a large part of our citizens, ourselves, our families at a time of crisis, because, of course, with the rate of payment or the return of credit has been felt by the vast majority of citizens, and since we went so broadly to talk, I would now love here and for the sake of our citizens and for the position we want to present in fact this law, its essence, what is it about? It is, therefore, one page, meaning, the Law amending the Foreign Payment Act and that proposal amending this Foreign Payment Act has 3 articles of which the third article refers to transitional and final provisions which state when these amendments will enter into force. Since we have enough time to do so, let's say essentially two articles to bring them out to both our citizens and your colleagues, I would also like to say what is in them. So, in art. 1. Proposer, here, means, Live Wall and I don't know if any other club is with them, so they suggest that when you pay and charge in foreign payment funds, Article. 15th amendment and not authorised, means that it is carried out in foreign payment means, and between residents and non-residents, as well as all transfers of funds to the Republic of Croatia are authorised in cases of prescribed law or decision of the CNB and that part is unclear as the applicant wishes and leaves a legal doubt about which types of payment the CNB is authorised to regulate by means of a sublaw of this payment. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2. it is said that loans in foreign payments between residents should not be granted and that other residents are not allowed to grant loans to each other in foreign means of payment. We were also at the club, and my colleague Pernar was in front of the club, he was just us, members, not at the club, but on the Finance Committee, he said he was against the currency clause, but we explained what he wanted to do with this postic, we did not get, and this law has no effect on the rules that can be very negatively affected by our citizens, especially the economy, on legal persons who use the possibility of raising foreign currency credits. And also, by implementing, we would literally ban this law from, for example. Our sailors receive salaries in foreign currency and we are not simply clear what this is trying to get at, although the proposings mention and specific problems that our citizens face and various problems which are now facing both the economy and the Republic of Croatia and which are particularly ruling, the challenge, but this law of 3 articles without evaluation and regulations can, in our opinion, be much more harmful to citizens than to benefit and what we hear from most citizens and what we represent is that they want these payments in foreign exchanges to be simpler and cheaper, to enable them to take the risk if they want to pay in kunas, that if they want to pay in loans, if they want to raise in foreign currencies credits or to raise in kunas, of course, they themselves take the risk if they happen, given that, because the currency clause is not included immediately in the start and then the credit is cheaper and, of course, that they are not all of course, that the euro has been taken from the right to be expensive, and that the right to the right to the right of the right of the people that they are to be, and the right of the right to use, and the right of the right, and the right of the right of the right, that they are the right of the right, and the right of the right of the right, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the people, that they, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the people, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the people, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the people, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the people, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the people and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the people, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right What most citizens want, wants the possibility of free choice, what they tell us that they can pay cheaper, simpler if they want in foreign exchanges, even one big part, especially in this area where I come from where tourism is, is that as much as possible to pay in foreign exchanges for the tourist season, the great tide of tourists, so this one, and that's something we're considering, but we're just being asked to give as much freedom in this law as possible, not to limit it in this way. Here, that would be all in the name of the club, the HDZ Club, this proposal changes these two, three articles does not accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130922	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of that CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130923	I thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, just really a couple of things, I tried something in replicas here a little bit, a few minutes more, some facts and what it is right now, which, I'm not even going to talk about the consequences that would come from something like this, I think it's important that we know where we are, why we're here and why the currency clause. I would only go through history when we talked here, of course, that there were extremely great risks when we talk about Swiss people, that a lot of our citizens and at the change of rates and at the change in interest rates, lost practically that after 5 years of paying off credit they were more obliged than at the time they raised it. I remember, looking around a bit always and researching there in 2004, perhaps in 2005, there were even announcements by the Minister of Finance at the time, I think he was a colleague of Shucker and the Governor that they had warned about the risk of Swiss people etc., but it was very easy, easy to pass, it was easy to understand and I think there was more to do with one thing where people were not aware of all the risks and borrowings. We do this when we cancel the currency clause, of course, we watch when it was the last time. The last time it was in Yugoslavia, especially in the late 80s, during the whole 80s, until 89s when inflation was over 2600%, it was then simple, then you could get a loan, I don't know who could even get a loan at all then, and if, then, if I'm not mistaken, the lombard loans and watch out now this lombar credit, so it's more or less that some deposit in movements or values of movement, mostly money, can gold, etc. There was such one for one. That means you had to, but be careful what, you had to give the bank 10,000 marks to get the equivalent of 20,000 dinars, if I'm not wrong. So even when it was, he was running to a safe port, in us very well-known currency, and today citizens when we talked about VAT introduction, today, about introduction, the euro, today citizens are just saving in that same, almost the same practically currency when the mark has changed in the euro, everyone has changed that and with us all prices, especially in the real-estate business show up in euro. ... Yeah, here, the vice president said something about what we're here... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then, in the '80s, the interest was, say, and the colleague said it on crafts was 25%, 25% interest on the Lombard loan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's something everyone's gonna love today. I don't really believe it, I don't think anyone could be able to borrow any more today, what that would mean for the economy, exactly the part that would lead to inflation, so it is, and of course I don't think we have to say anything at all, so it would happen to us that people are moving out. So as far as the euro itself is concerned, two are the main ones, since that's where two of the biggest ones got through, let's say inflation and the cost of conversion are concerned. And that is, inflation between 0.2 and 0.3% of price growth, 0.23, I think that's how I kind of saw the average in all the countries that did it and in the last countries that did it. Conversion at 0.5% of GDP level. It's something that absolutely doesn't need to be easily understood but it's something sure that's much less than what we get. We get, of course, the elimination of exactly the currency risk, what we're talking about here today, the introduction of the euro is no longer a currency risk. What is being achieved by this proposal, when there is no currency risk of what is happening? The risk, appreciation or depreciation of the kuna means that every investor no longer has to count on it when looking at investments, that means that the very height of the interest rate is less because, of course, one of the important factors in determining the interest rate and the risk and transaction costs, of course, there is a margin etc. Today we have an average of 3.9 in Europe 1.9. And the introduction of the euro would certainly reduce that interest rate. So borrowing would be cheaper, that would certainly mean a bigger economic moment for our businessmen and, of course, for our citizens. Because I remember in the '80s, and I remember that my parents as lawyers couldn't really get a loan to solve their housing issue, they just didn't because they didn't have a certain amount of marks to turn it into a loan at 1:1 ratio. And she needed some fat relationship, obviously, that's what you get, and the question is, what other interest. That's it. That's what I'm going back to. I think it's safe that we can sensitize ourselves, and I can say the same thing, and I support all court proceedings as far as the Franak case is concerned, and I think that no one and in the far line of the previous government intervened and froze the course, and I think there should have been a solution. We can't make someone give money away for free, they won't, and we need to be aware of that because it's their private money. We can set the rules of the game in which we have to protect the citizens maximum. That's monetary policy, too, says we're losing our monetary independence. And we have monetary independence so that all our currency is covered in euro. So what if something euro happened to me today with the kuna? Nothing. To transfer these euros to kunas and hold foreign exchanges, or reserves in kunas, to me, what kind of risk is that, and then who would answer? What if we had another galloping inflation, then what would we do? We'd have had so people wouldn't have anything to eat on the streets, God forbid. Of course, those are the blackest scenarios, and that's certainly not going to happen. We have to be responsible, we have to be safe, and there we can agree to do everything that everyone needs to do, that risk is minimized, that there are no more extra profits, that there are no more unfair commercial practices, that there's something that's clearly not said what the risks are. And that's what we all support in the end line. To go to one extreme, to be abolished, to stop the possibility of people getting credit, to solve housing issues, to start their jobs. Because de facto you won't be anyone else to borrow money on these terms because people will be too risky. Now we are certainly not here and we must be responsible for explaining such things in the end line of people and what it means to introduce the euro for our country, which is as much and as much on the euro as it is, that it is only a matter of macroeconomic and stability and all those parameters that we need to meet, and that must be the goal and not just the introduction of a means of payment, that is, the aim must be what needs to be met and done that this euro can be with us. And surely it will then lead to a new congestion of the economy and a new same stability, especially at interest rates and the credit debt of our citizens themselves. Here, of course, the HNS Club won't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130924	Thank you very much. We will now welcome the gallery of pupils and students of the Upper Town High School from Zagreb. So the next one will speak on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130925	Thank you very much, Vice President. Representative Curaj, you are essentially proposing the same thing as the politicians of the 19th century who were prone to co-operation with Hungary and Germany who were called Unionists, an interesting name, would be applicable today. We might as well call you Unionists who advocate... All right, unionists anyway. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I would like to ask you whether Croatia is in charge of the country or not, are you personally in charge as a Croatian citizen or not? Yeah, all right. So tell me what you're asking me to do before we pay off our debts or take them down to some normal measure to accept the payment of Greek debts. So at this point in time, while we have kuna, we don't have to pay Greek debts the moment we introduce the EUR-o we'll have to pay the debts of Greece. Slovenia pays the debts of Greece because it has EURO. You're not saying that the introduction of the EUR will cost us 10 billion kuna, 10 billion kuna, that's your official assessment of Mr. Vujčić, not mine. Starting with not knowing how to adjust the legal, administrative, accounting, making the bills ourselves, we will have to transfer one part of the reserve to the European Central Bank, etc. You say, you say, when we give our currency to Europe we will be safe from currency, from currency risk, yes, but we will no longer have independence. Are you a man of your own, if I take your wallet now and keep it with me? If you're independent, you're not, I took away one of the main elements of your independence. You don't say, you don't say, you can replicate me this is the presentation of the promoter, this, you don't say that by introducing EUR we'll get higher prices, here's an analysis of the Slovenian Institute where Slovenes could buy 900 coffees before joining the EU, today with a raise of salary can buy 800, which means what a salary increase means to you, if your prices have gone up. Which means I don't know a 100 kuna raise, if the current gets me 200 for example. Furthermore, you do not say that by introducing the EUR, we will get new taxes, new taxes. No monetary policy can be conducted with different taxes, and the EU will go to equalising fiscal policy and, above all, the introduction of real estate tax, which your party of the HNS is open to the most. So you want to introduce that real estate tax, you've taken over the Department of Construction and you're always working on that tax on the small and large doors of this. If you're against that tax, I ask you to say it, but say it honestly, not as Minister Maric who says one thing today, and then after a few years, the same thing, he denies it. Therefore, Croatia's currency, its own currency is an excellent tool for economic development. I repeat, you have an example of Iceland once again, you have an example of the Czech Republic, you have an example of Poland, you have an example of Romania, you have an example of Hungary, which all during a certain period of crisis simply brought their currency into a realistic course, to stimulate exports, and to reduce imports and thus raise GDP. Look, Romania has grown to you one of the last quarter of 8.5%, 8.5%, and they don't have a EUR-o, nor are they going to introduce it. See for example. one Turkey, which was an inflationary pressure, designed of course from financial circles to weaken the lira, but did not weaken, did not weaken. Turkey is today a member of the G20. What is the member of Croatia? Croatia is a member of the dump 20. And that's, unfortunately this is your policy where you simply want to destroy this little bit of what's left. To send these young men to go, to where they go, and to stay here you from this side of yours forever in power just for the sole purpose of power. So we are going after that we are not Unionists, that we are not subjects, that we are free people and that we can create a good society without the EU and the EUR, as much as we can create a country in which Europeans will want to move, move, not a country from which people will just want to move out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130926	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130927	Here I thank you, esteemed colleague of the Bunjac, I ask you this regardless of the extent of your proposals, I have never said anything publicly ugly, bad, or you personally, or your party no matter what nonsense you have come out of. It's your right. As for real estate tax, look at some newspaper articles. In the government with the SDP and the government of the HDZ, who stopped that tax? HNS. Why, we're about to work out a whole property tax solution, not punish people who didn't save money in real estate, so now we're going to punish them. So we don't have it today, not the other way around. And let me ask you the end no matter what we don't have, do you know what the price was in some MacDonalds hamburger index in 2002 in Croatia? Three kunas, what's seven today? Is this about the EUR? It is in 15 years, in 15 years which was the average salary, which was the minimum salary, below 2,000 kuna at that time, is nothing to help us. So even when the EUR-o comes it won't be.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130928	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130929	Thank you, Agent Curaj, I've never gone against you personally, it's something you've misjudged. In contrast, unlike you who only care for your party members to prosper in society, we in the Living Wall want all people to be happy and so do you. So we want him to be happy and Mr. Curaj and Mr. Reiner, why not, it doesn't matter that you're not in our parties, there's no connection that our opinions differ. But your opinion is that you can only be happy if we disappear. That's, that's the problem. So you go after it, you reject this law aprior as soon as the Living Wall says it's no good. Here we are today defending amendments 1,000 times we have defended amendments to any law, never one, absolutely none of them have passed. And I guarantee you that we are part of the ruling majority to get through to the last one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130930	Dear Representative Curaj, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130931	In Article 238, a colleague demeaned an MP about my personal experience of happiness and linked it to the Living Wall. So absolutely no problem with your party, and let it be ruling if these citizens choose it then probably we deserve it no matter how terrible it may be. So I'm asking you just to warn him that he's not insulting the other MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130932	All right, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now, we'll move on to an individual debate, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative, Ivan Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130933	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am sad that the subject of the currency clause on loans, or monetary occupations of our country and putting our country in a dependent position on a foreign source of money, is interested in such a small number of MPs. However, it does not surprise me because in our society there are always some topics of which there are no breads, some kind of worldly topic that is much debated and in reality nothing changes for people's lives. Now that it's debated whether loans with a currency clause or not, there are now no distinguished ladies and gentlemen, at least a large majority of them. What I want to say is this, MP Curaj scares the public by saying that if a currency clause is lifted on loans, if kuna is the only means of paying in Croatia that extreme poverty, social breakdown, economic breakdown, etc. may occur. However, I would like to remind him that at the time that Croatia was in Yugoslavia, that and such Yugoslavia as is portrayed as a bogeyman and a scarecrow, people were not able to get loans that they were returning, but they were getting apartments, not one, not one man. Who got an apartment from the company today? I don't know that man. And I can say that my aunt got an apartment that wasn't a party member, my grandfather got an apartment, and he wasn't a party member, and they got a lot of other people who weren't party members. I can testify that my parents who weren't party members didn't get an apartment but they got a loan that was fed by inflation. That's what it is for you, and then they bought themselves an apartment with that loan. This system of people you feared was such that the ratio of workers and pensioners was 3:1, it was a system in which it was produced, a system in which there was enough money, a system in which there were no blocked citizens, a system in which no water and electricity was excavated for debt. A system where people could build cottages at sea and inland. A system where people weren't afraid of the FINA, of the performance, a system where they weren't afraid they'd lose their jobs tomorrow. It was a system where the doctor could find a job. Today my own wife who finished dentistry is looking for a job for a month and still can't find it. You're talking about expertise and education here, how good and ideal this system is. So here's if the system is good and ideal how is it that my wife who's a good dentist can't find a job? She's done college, she can work teeth, huh, no work? What am I trying to tell you? That this system is not that it's not good, not that it's not successful, it's proven to be bad and proven unsuccessful. You can see that by how many bad loans there are, by how far the companies have failed because they couldn't repay the loans. How many people got accounts and real estate and movables because they couldn't repay the loans. And you're saying that, yes, like then in socialism, not everyone could get a loan. Oh, is it, Mr. Churay? And what, now anyone can get a loan? So you think if you as a parliamentary representative can get a loan that others can get. So try to get a loan, or try these people with blocked accounts, ask them how much credit they'll give in the bank. Ask people who work seasonally or for a minimum of 3000 kuna how much credit they can get in the bank, ask them. Ask them if a man with 3,000 credits or a woman who works in a bakery can get a housing loan. And then people in socialism were getting apartments and loans. And those loans they paid back in a few years, not ten years back, so after 10 years, they were as long as they were in the first place. Well, this system is cheating, don't you see? So is it possible that the Croatian people lost their collective memory, that there was collective amnesia and the syncope of the type Modric, Horvatinčić, that they no longer remember anything? Isn't it possible that he doesn't remember that there used to be a lot more jobs, that there was a lot more production, that there weren't holes in the pension fund, that there was peace, that there wasn't living in fear of when the loan war would come, so do we have credit, are we going to have food? At that time, the farmers who were engaged, who were not afraid of who they would sell the fruits of their work, were not afraid that import potatoes, import carrots or import apples would be cheaper than theirs. And why weren't they afraid of it? Exactly because it was a weak currency dinar, precisely because it was a real relationship power domestic and foreign currency. And it was cheaper for everyone to buy homemade food, of course. Of course, why would someone buy importeds when it's domestically cheaper? And today it's the other way around. Look at the Borov example, look at how many Borovo people used to hire, how many jobs they're hiring now, it's been shut down by giants. See how much milk was produced in that and such Yugoslavia and how much milk is produced today. Look, compare the numbers. Croatia used to feed others, now it cannot feed itself with this system. And now I would like for the sake of young people who will one day find themselves in this chain of circuits where the credit system with the central bank has pushed us into the exchange room, because of them we want to explain what is actually going on with the central bank. If our central bank of CNB were to lend loans to business banks and then these business banks further to us, then these loans would be in kunas because it's the source of these loans in kunas from the central bank. However, if domestic business banks borrow foreign exchanges that only exchange kunas in the CNB and then these kunas place it with the currency clause because it is covered for their external debt, rather than in kunas from the central bank, then it is clear that the central bank is a currency exchanger not to play the role of the central bank. But the most banal and simple way to figure out why the CNB exchange office is next. What determines tight interest rates? At the interest rate of the HNB or at the escontaneous rate, i.e. by Euribor, Libor, and whatever. Eh, interest is no longer determined by the tightness of the HNB rate... than they say, Mr. Currius prescribed legally. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He says yes, and what does that mean? Well, that means it doesn't matter exactly what the Econtaneous rate of the CNB is. And why is that? Because the CNB does not play the role of the central bank, it is therefore totally irrelevant what this econtamination rate is when it is clear that it will always be such that business banks will be cheaper to borrow euro than in the CNB kuna. This system you created, you can convince your colleagues from the HNS that it is correct. But I'm sure you can't convince these young people at the gallery that this system is good and fair because it's neither good nor fair to them nor to their parents nor will it be to their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130934	We have one replica of the respected representative Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130935	My dear colleague, you're a Yugoslav, and you don't know what it was like at the time when specialization waited for a decade, when there were many shortages of gasoline, powder, coffee, when the car was coupled, so you advocate everything that was in Yugoslavia that we lived through and survived. And these young people are alluding to something they actually showed, you've shown that everything that's been done to create this country is worthless. Well, that's scary, so many of their parents actually died both ours and that way they could talk about some former system. We must create a better state, better conditions, more just for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130936	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130937	Mrs. Peric, you say that the system that was created today is better than the one that was if I understood you well. This system that was, it had its faults but look how many inhabitants Croatia had then and how many now. See how many children were in schools before HDZ came to power in the '90s and how many children are now in schools. You're pulling your head and shouting is not true, but you know what's true, you know that there's been a rapid decline in the number of residents, a rapid decline in the number of students and a rapid decline in the number of employees, and that's why the pension system doesn't work, and that's why pensioners dig in the trash, Mrs. Peric. That's why they have blocked accounts because they don't have money to pay the directors. You can lie to a lot of people a lot of time but you can't lie to all people all the time. And today your lies have come to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130938	Thank you very much, thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Goran Aleksic, gone, losing his right to speak. So finally, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative of Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130939	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to close by and look back at a statement by Agent Curray that the governor has warned people that credits are dangerous. So he was acting like a meteorologist. So I warn you that tomorrow will rain, that there will be a storm at sea or, say, a parishioner in the church, I warn you that you need to obey 10 of God's orders, and if you don't respect them, that's your responsibility. So it's not his job to warn, it's his job to work, he has a salary of 36,000 kuna to regulate the financial market. And if nothing else we managed to achieve this law and this whole affair with the currency clause then at least we managed to achieve that now after 10 years the governor finally came down from the cloud and realized that he had to act and he did it just last week when he banned cash loans of up to 300 thousand kuna. This should have been done long before with loans in Swiss and with a number of other toxic products such as RBA loans, etc. And that's why the Living Wall came out with this initiative, and in some ways it's a result now, a concrete result of our actions that, in the future, whether the governor sleeps in his ears or how else such problems would never happen again. And you just keep leaving the currency clause and tomorrow when the citizens are in trouble again then lie down with your shoulders and say you didn't know, that you couldn't, etc. I think it is necessary to act, not to warn, lamentate, and conduct a debate that is more like a barter than serious state-leading. So much of us, so here's what I'd like to say if this law doesn't pass, I'd like to say in the end that the Living Wall has already achieved something and certainly the main problems, we'll solve the key problems on the day that we're able... In power, that day this law will certainly come to life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's our main message to all those who have suffered the consequences of the currency clause in recent decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130940	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Ivan Pernar, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130941	Honorable ladies and gentlemen, once the earth was enslaved by force, once by weapon, people were dragged into slavery. Today people are enslaved with loans, today people are enslaved by debt slavery, today they are managed by debt. Today, the believers are in power regardless of who the debtors vote for. The point, i.e. the consequence of such a relationship, is the suspension of democracy, the suspension of the people's will and the fact that today is completely irrelevant to what the people think. Why? Because it's gonna end up the way the creditors decide anyway because it's the creditors who actually have the real power. That's the problem of today's day. We live in a time of debt rule, in a time of creditor rule, in a time of religious rule. Such a system did not come from itself, someone created it and it was not created for the well-being of 99% of the people who are debtors but for the interest of 1% of those who are believers at the top of the pyramid of power, who privatized the process of making money and who actually made those who have de facto real power over the countries. Our Law on the Elimination of the Currency Clause on Loans, that is, our goal of abolishing it through amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act and the one on mandatory relations, is a step on the road towards economic, or monetary independence of our country. Those who brought you, or those who have brought us into a state of complete destruction, cannot get us out of trouble. Those who have brought our society to the brink of poverty and the policies they have implemented both monetary and economic can't get us out of these problems. In this separation of the company that the credit system is working, in this division 1% of the elite and 99% of our other extreme poverty is an inevitable phenomenon, extreme poverty is impossible to avoid. Because if on the one hand you have enormous money and enormous wealth, and if money is a debt it is clear that on the other side of that spectrum somewhere there must be enormous debt, enormous unemployment and enormous poverty. This system in which several people in the world have wealth as well as 2 billion other people makes it clear to you that it is necessary to reform the monetary system and that without reforming the monetary system there will be no change in social relations. This system will do everything to convince people that evil is good, that lie is true, that black is white, that failure is success, that hell is paradise. And that what can't work today or has worked in the past will work successfully in the future. The economic system that existed before the '90s had its faults, but all the flaws he had together did not lead to the number of residents of our country rapidly falling, that the relationship of workers to pensioners 1:1 was that we had a rapid number of school crashes year by year and that we as a society, as a people, were disappearing. What is not being done in Yugoslavia is the euthanasia of the Croatian people today is being done by the ruling caste, not because it has something against the Croatian people, but because it is being placed in the service of foreign entities, foreign centres of power that trample through people like corpses. The Croatians live on a case in Croatia, so the system is trampling on us Croatians. But in every country, that system exploits the local population. On this occasion, I call on the Croatian people to rebel but not a rebellion against one party or one person, but a rebellion against the system that holds them in slavery, represented by almost all parties other than the Living Wall, unfortunately. I urge them to rebel against ignorance. And rebellion in order to seek the right knowledge, the knowledge that is not in schools, the knowledge that is hidden from the public. That knowledge that the public must not know because if she knew that knowledge, they would make different choices in the elections. Unfortunately, as long as voters vote for those who favour creditors, for Brussels, the laws will be written by creditors and Brussels. As long as citizens vote for those who watch the interests of 1%, it is clear that the interests of 99% will be pushed aside. And don't fool yourself, people of Croatia, don't believe in a lie that it's possible that your country is in debt slavery and that you're free. Don't fool yourself, people of Croatia, that our politicians are puppets and you'll be able to do what you think. No, no, no, no, if the top of power is managed, you too will be managed. If the country is in debt slavery, you too will be in debt slavery. If the country is in a subordinate position, you too will be in a subordinate position. If the system that governs our country is unjust and our country is wrongly managed, you too will be the victim of injustice. If the system generates enormous wealth and enormous money from Croatia, it gives out every year to pay off more than 35 billion kuna, if we still give 4 billion more for EU membership and if billions more banks are coming out of the country through the so-called. So ask yourselves, O peoples, what will be left for you? They draw more than 20 Peljek bridges annually from Croatia, and instead of living in their country, you are forced to abandon it. Croatian people, wake up. It's time for a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130942	Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will finish today's work and the session will continue on Wednesday 13 March at 9:30. A schedule of discussions for the week from 13 to 15 March will be delivered during the next week. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. The session was interrupted at 14.51 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-01-0.u130943	Proposal for a Law amending the Foreign Exchange Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 355. The promoter is the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, no proposal for a Law amending the Foreign Exchange Act is adopted, please vote. I find it unanimous, 80 votes for, to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. And we're moving on to the agenda. First point: - Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2018. The applicant shall: Chief State Auditor pursuant to Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Government delivered an opinion. I would now ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation of the report, respected chief state auditor Ivan Klesic. Here you go.
