ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134962	This brings us to the end of free debates, so let us now move to the agenda, the first item has A and B: (a) The proposal for a decision on the resolved president and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education (a) The proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 8. The law on quality assurance in science and higher education. And I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is Branka Ramljak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education Science, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134963	Thank you, well-respected President-in-Office, distinguished MPs and MPs. Article 8(2) of the Law on quality assurance in science and higher education, stipulates that the President and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education shall be appointed at the time of 4 years. Paragraph 3 of that same article of the Law, the President and 7 members of the Governing Council shall be appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. Both presidents and two members, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, one member on a proposal from the Rectorial Assembly, one member on a proposal from the Council, a university and higher schools, one member on a proposal from the National Council on Science, one member in charge of higher education. And a member of the students' class, on the proposal of the Croatian Student Assembly. In addition, paragraph 4 of the same Article of the Law, it is prescribed that the Agency appoints and resolves one member of the Governing Council from the ranks of its employees. At its meeting on 26 October 2012, the Republic of Croatia held a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Governing Council, the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The President and members of the Governing Council were then appointed to expire on 26 October 2016 and the Ministry of Science and Education developed a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and members of the Governing Council, and a proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in its parliamentary procedure on 6 April, which has not yet been completed. Given the flow of time, the ministry referred the government to the motion for a decision again. At a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, held on 28 February 2019, the government established and referred the Croatian Parliament to a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President-in-Office and members of the Governing Council of the Agency, as well as a proposal for a decision to appoint a new President and members of the Governing Council. She would remind herself that with this decision, she would propose a discharge of Professor Mile Djellija and the next members of the Governing Council, Professor Aleksandra Deluka Tibljas, Professor Damir Markulak, Professor Ljiljana Pinter, Professor Slavica Ćosović Bajić, Professor Damir Ježek, Dr Slavka Pericu and from the class of fellow students, Andrea Mesanović. In the next meeting of the Governing Council, the proposal is to appoint Professor Diana Vican as President of the Governing Council, and to the members of the Governing Council, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Professor Drago Subaric, Professor Krešimir Rotim. At the proposal of the rectoral assembly Professor Branko Matulić, at the proposal of the Council of the University and High Schools Professor Vlatko Cvrtila. At the proposal of the National Council of Science Professor Gordana Rusak, at the proposal of the National Council of Higher Education Professor Marko Petrak and at the proposal of the Croatian Student Assembly of the students Nediljko Jerković.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134964	Do we have a replica, please? Comrade Zekanovic, you have a replica, I don't know, I didn't get you. But you didn't, when did you get up? ... All right, well, it will be then, here's your colleague, Zekanovic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134965	Dear Secretary of State, I am sorry that there is no minister here, since this is about Diana Vican, and you know how she ended up from the place of the special expert commission for implementation and strategy and action in the field of science and education. So she was really shaking and trying to get Diana Vican out of that place, and then here, there's a little bit of a concession to HDZ as a coalition partner, and yet Diana Vican gets one comforting reward. And the consolation prize is this place. I'm glad to hear it. Vican to be in this place, however, I must say, that this is actually all very funny, and in its place he would not give credibility to either your ministry, nor Minister Divjak, nor Andrej Plenkovic, because as Andrej Plenkovic has submitted to her, our Prime Minister and Minister Divjak, did not deserve to be at the head of this committee today, although I consider it to be a top expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134966	Would you like an answer? No, I don't. Then we're done with the replicas, I'm sorry, then we have a colleague of Lovrinović's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134967	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been listening very carefully to your presentations, Mrs. President. State Secretary, it was said that in 2012 the elected members of the Governing Council, 2016 expired and from 2016 to today did not mean a new Administrative Council with the President and the rest. What's he saying? It says that science and higher education, not in the interest of this government and this one, means the trade coalition, it has been waiting 2-2.5 years, as a colleague said a few years ago, looking at who he's going to put in, who's like, who's not like him, who's suffering science and higher education. In addition, it is not just waiting on the agenda, you see, since 2017, there has been no report on the work of the CNB. why are you avoiding putting that point on the agenda, so I repeat again The characteristics and the highly educated are neglected... [[Intruder: Time's up, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134968	Time has passed, I have explained to you many times why this point is not on the agenda, because you have filed a request that does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, so we do not have to repeat each time at the beginning of the session. Would you like an answer? You don't want to. Thank you. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Education and Science and Culture want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134969	Thank you, Mr. President, ma'am. State Secretary, fellow MPs. Before us is the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and under b)The proposal for a Decision appointing the President and members of the Management Board of the ASC. The Agency for Science and Higher Education, a well-known AZVO shortcut, is a quality assurance agency for higher education and science, based on an example of EU countries' practices. The European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education and ENQA, as well as the inclusion in the European Register for High Education Quality Insurance Agency, was confirmed in 2011 as a European agency authorised to carry out quality assurance procedures throughout the European Higher Education Area. What I was saying, meaning what might sound a little abstract, quality assurance, actually means that AZVO is the agency that conducts the accreditation process, i.e. giving permission to launch new study programmes in the Republic, starting new studies, higher schools, universities, etc. So it is an agency that is extremely important and in this professional respect is doing this job, which for the future of Croatia, our youth, our children, and new generations, is extremely important and therefore this agency is important and therefore, I think it is good that the more it discusses and its role in the Republic and society in general. Therefore, the ASC is independent and independent in performing tasks in the field of demarcation and jurisdiction established by the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, that is, a fundamental law governing the field of science and higher education and the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. In this sense, the AZVO has that role that universities once played in terms of professional recognition of qualifications, so if someone has achieved a degree outside the Republic of Croatia and wants to work in the Republic of Croatia, it must also pass the recognition procedure which is under the authority of the Agency, meaning one very, very important institution of the Republic of Croatia. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). ed.st. 1. The law on quality assurance in science and higher education has been found to be governed by the ASC by the administrative board of presidents and 8 members. They are appointed and resolved by the HS and by the president and 2 members on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and by one member on a proposal from the Rector's Assembly, the Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, as well as one member from the student class on a proposal from the Croatian Student Assembly. The ASC shall appoint and resolve a member of the Board of Directors in the order of its staff within the meaning of the provision of the Article. 8th century four quoted laws. The president and members of the board of directors are appointed on time of 4 years. Since the term of office of the President and members of the Board of Directors of the ASC expired, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a resolution of the President and members of the Governing Council at the meeting held on 28 February 2019, and the Government also identified the proposal, meaning the new President and the two members who proposed the Government and also forwarded a list of those members proposed by the relevant institutions. I would just point out that this point should be discussed and voted last week, but unfortunately because of the exhibitionism of some parliamentary representatives and some political parties, we are only today discussing this important issue, but good, which is, there it is. I'd just like to say a few words about the candidate for President of the Governing Council, which is also mentioned here in the debate. So Dijana Vican graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, 1984. The same institution was completed in 1991 by a post-graduate scientific study from andragogy and obtained a degree of master's degree in science, and in 2000 the degree of doctorate in the field of education sciences. At the post of assistant at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zadar, then part of the University of Split, today it is the University of Zadar, which was employed in 1987. At the same institution, scientific training was achieved. Today she is a scientific advisor, most called, and a regular professor in the scientific field of social science, field of pedagogy, branch of general pedagogy. The scientific professional teaching work has been realized in several pedagogical disciplines. General systematic intercultural pedagogy, educational policies, andragogy, entrepreneurial education, inclusive education and teacher education, I think, which is one of the most important topics, especially in the context of the reform of education that has been talked about here and something that the absolute state needs to work on even more than it has done so far. The teaching work includes the beginning of employment in the study of pedagogy and other study programmes. It has contributed to the continuous innovation of the study programme of pedagogy at the postgraduate and graduate level, as well as the development of a doctoral study of pedagogy. Dijana Vican's scientific work was achieved according to the legal requirements of scientific activities, by publishing scientific papers, reporting and conducting scientific projects, participation in joint scientific projects in the country and abroad, programme and organisational committees of scientific conferences in the country and abroad, memberships in the offices of scientific journals in the field of pedagogy, reviewing affairs and the development of young scientific staff. It has also been developed scientifically and professionally in the country and abroad, and this way I would only mention the United States, Finland, Scotland, Slovenia, Denmark and Germany, as well as other countries. She held a number of functions at the university outside the university and was a member of a series of working groups, commissions at national level. I would especially like to mention those who were involved in Croatia's EU accession negotiations in this area of education. Of course, it has made a special contribution to its participation in the establishment of the University of Zadar, as the first pintegrated university in Croatia and its development to date, and I think that certainly the entire academic community in the Republic of Croatia should be extremely grateful for this important role it played in this segment, this 1st October 2018 President of the Rector's Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. So, I think we have very good candidates, especially the candidate for President of the Governing Council, and I believe that's one thing that we can reach consensus on in this House, which is unfortunately not a common case, but he thinks that up here really in competence is the reputation of the candidate, no one can in any way suspect, though. So I think we should really get together, I think we should all agree on that. Finally, as far as the agencies themselves are concerned, I would point out that there have been a lot of objections in the past, about the number of student programmes to be opened, whether they are monitoring the labour market, whether they ensure quality in an adequate way, accreditations are granted to those who need them or those who do not need them, etc. However, I would like to point out here that the criteria have certainly risen quite a bit over the past few years and that, in this sense, the AZVO has contributed to raising the quality of science and higher education in the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, I would also point out one thing that is extremely important in this context. So today we have a situation for the agency to carry out a professional accreditation process. So we have a commission that comes to some high school, estimates from a professional perspective whether this program that wants to be accredited, which wants to get a postcard to meet quality criteria, whether there are enough teachers, what is the attitude towards students, etc. In this commission there must always be some foreign member, which I think is very important because we know that we are a small academic community where they didn't want everyone connected in some way and it's very good for the whole procedure that you always have someone outside who can give a more impartial and objective judgment on new student programmes that are being launched. However, when the whole procedure is carried out by the commission and then ultimately the accreditation council, we have the situation that, after all it's been implemented, it's not the one that makes the final decision, it's the final decision, but it's the minister who makes the decision. And we've already had situations and some proceedings in front of the administrative court where the question of what is the role of one, what is the role of the other. And in that sense, I know that this is about legislative reforms of the entire system of science and higher education, which includes quality assurance, and I think that this dualism should sort of be resolved. So one suggestion was that maybe the agency itself is making a solution to accreditation, that's one option, there are other options, but it's certainly something to think about, and what maybe a little bit more should be discussed, see if this duality can be better regulated in some way so that there are no concerns that have arisen in practice. Here, in short, I'm glad this point came to the agenda, I'm glad we're discussing it. I hope that the debate will be argued, that there will be no politics and use of such a serious topic for the collection of cheap political points, although some MPs have unfortunately gone on the trail, but well that is their choice, voting on it in the next election. And in that sense, the HDZ club supports this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134970	Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134971	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. We have before us a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and a proposal for a decision to appoint a new president and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. This is all formal, legal. The Croatian Parliament must appoint on a proposal from the Government of the President, i.e. the President and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, in the manner prescribed by the law. And it is quite clear that the criteria were respected here, which is that the president and two members are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by one member of the Chamber of Rectors, by the Council of the University and the High Schools, by the National Council for Science, by the National Council for Higher Education, by representatives of the Croatian Student Assembly and by the last member not appointed by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and not by the promoters or by those proposings that I have pointed out, it is one member of the board proposed and elected by the Agency itself. However, the deadlines are pretty far apart. The logical question arises as to why the government of the Republic of Croatia and then the other proposings, although I suppose the problem in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then, indirectly, the Republic of Croatia's parliament took as long as 2.5 years to fulfil its legal duty. In view of the fact that the term of office of the President and the members of the Governing Council expired on 26 November 2016 because they were appointed in 2021. This approach shows, at the very least, no concern and irresponsibility towards the system in this case of science and higher education and a very clear fact that unfortunately to this government for these or those reasons in which we can now and discuss the system of science and higher education is not high on the list of priorities. Because if she did, she wouldn't put the old president and the old board members in a position to actually stay and be head of an important agency so much as 2.5 years without real parliamentary legitimacy. What I wouldn't go into right now is the names that are proposed. I would not enter for the reason why here can be debated and whether there are people in the Republic who are more capable of taking responsibility, such an important responsibility, I think that even if we put aside party membership because we see that there have been some political trades, because it is not by chance that some members, or members, are actually proposed from one club, specifically by Milan Bandic, not by any other institution, so there is really nothing by chance here but it is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to stand behind these people. However, what I am convinced is that if the Croatian Parliament votes confidence to the President and members of the Governing Council, one thing I am sure will not be easy for them. It will not be easy for them because this agency will also be a polygon over which various political trades, political tricks, disagreements within the ruling coalition and a completely unclear concept will develop a system of education and education in the Republic of Croatia because we have long deviated from the strategic document for the development of education, which is a strategy that was adopted in this Croatian Assembly. Why am I saying that? Because at the moment when we propose to the Croatian Parliament the name of the new president and new members and members of the board of directors, the Ministry of Science and Education sends to the procedure concretely, in public consultation with the interested public, an assessment of the effects of the new law on the new agency which should not only be called otherwise but also have a completely different part-round of our work which we know nothing about at this time. And the forms of assessment of the effects of the regulations, it is not clear why we today appoint a new administrative council of the Agency for Science and Higher Education when the Ministry plans to establish a new agency or rename an old one but I am afraid that it will not only work on renaming and consulting is the law or assessment of the impact of the rules on the law of the Agency for Quality Insurance in Science and High Education whose content we do not know anything, the only thing we know from the form that is on public consultation on the impact assessment is that this amendment and this move is not the cause or reform processes of the Government because it is one of the items there, whether it is in accordance with some reform processes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, means some strategic decisions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the answer clearly standing there in the form is not. So, my people, what we're talking about, who's running and ruling the education system in the Republic of Croatia, whether there's an agreement about it within the ruling coalition, whether the largest party within the Coalition, which is HDZ, which is the ministry headed by the non-party minister of the HNS quota, and what's actually going on in these 2 years in the Republic of Croatia. He doesn't know what the left hand is doing, and I don't mean the left hand in the House, but I mean the relations within the ruling coalition for which I am clearly assessing and saying that they are unhealthy, that they are conditioned by some other interests that have nothing to do with the general, public interest, that they have nothing to do with the strategic documents adopted in the Croatian Parliament and that they will be devastating, not fatal in the sense that they will destroy the system of education and education in the Republic of Croatia, but they will certainly reverse it, I had to mention it. So I don't even care about these people that much, and now we've come to the fact that the shadow of this irresponsible approach to making certain decisions from the Ministry of Science and Education where we don't really know what those decisions are conditioned for, because the strategy is not, who makes those decisions, is the minister getting up one morning and deciding here, now we're going to do it and who advises her and what kind of politics it is. What I also want to emphasise is that they are and are related to this topic, this is an approach to the general approach of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards not only the appointment of this Governing Council where I say that it comes before the Croatian Parliament for 2.5 years of delay, I want to point out there also 2 very important facts and appeal to the President of the Croatian Parliament but also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to enable us to do our job and to enable the education system to have all predisposition and all key bodies that function in the way that the Constitution should function in order for the way it was designed to be, circle. I'll just remind you that after two years it seems to me that we haven't appointed a new composition of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. There was also one good part of the members that expired, however for some reasons, I suppose the reasons for the inability to agree between HNS and HDZ, we still somehow completed, a structured body that is extremely important both in this segment and for the work and the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which is the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. I would like to remind you that since the beginning of 2017, it means, for a little over two years, the Republic of Croatia does not have a National Council for Education and Education, or it has a mole, without a president and without enough members to have a quorum to make decisions. Who is in the interest of not having or not to operate a roof strategic and expert body that needs to monitor the quality of pre-terative education and worry about the development of national documents, to whom is it in the interest? The government and the ministry that they can do what they want, that instead of curricular reforms, they can conduct some kind of experiments on children called School of Life because this is exactly what the National Council for Education and Education should be professionally, advisoryly and strategically, or it has been, so imagined, so it says in the law it passed, monitoring the quality of education and giving its opinions on key national curricula, we see what is going on, something is going on ahead, I don't call it a full curricula reform because it is not, some intervention in the system of education is happening, but it has been deliberately eliminated or disabled in its work this roof national body. And the third agency that's mutilated, and she's threatened to die is the Professional Education Agency. So that agency a month and a half ago was the Ministry of Science and Education, and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia put in a situation that there was no principal or director because her mandate was expired, but there was no administrative council to be elected by the new director or director. So, the agency, which depends on one 80% of the funds or money from the EU funds, we brought on appliances, bread and water, and then we quickly appointed, not us, but the government of the Republic of Croatia, because these members did not have to go through the HS filter like these members of the board of directors, then the minister wisely thought that the person from his cabinet, a member of the HNS, would head the Management Council of the Professional Education and Education Agency, I guess that she could be more painless and easier to put out, which will be done very quickly because here we see a public consultation a month ago, a full month ago, is also an assessment of the effects of the rules on the establishment of a new, Law on education, general and vocational education. So, the Professional Education Agency... However, we could have expected this because in that strategic document of the Government, on the rationalisation of agencies, the institutes, they are of all the agencies that exist, of all the institutions that exist, to decide to actually shut down or destroy exactly the one that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the minister says will be a key segment of investment in the Republic of Croatia in the coming period, which is vocational education because if we have problems anywhere and if we are anywhere in the performance indices with other European countries, then it is certainly a system of vocational education. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry that we got to this, I'm sorry that the government led us to this, the only thing I can say at the end is, get together, but really, not only taxively and in the words, the education system, science into priorities, name the bodies or ensure that all roof agencies, all roof agencies that are extremely important for the functioning of the education and education system work, don't make them look like this, don't make it impossible for them to work through the delaying procedures of appointments of members necessary for decision making, and these people who are likely to be chosen I want a lot of happiness because I want them to need it and I want them to remind themselves of that, perhaps I'm a utopian, maybe I expect too much, but calling on the profession and believing in the expertise of these people, I call them, regardless of the party colors, to read the strategy of science and technology education, that I don't allow myself to implement the parallel education policy and to insist on the legislation that I have been adopted by the Croatian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134972	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives GLAS, HSU colleague Vesna Pusic, please welcome colleagues Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, this document, which is before us, and the motion for a decision to appoint the president and members of the board of directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency, I have experienced and we have experienced complete infidelity. I can't believe we were sent here and I'm only gonna talk about people because I think it's crucial here. In the first place, I'm going to talk about a proposal for the president of the Science and Higher Education Agency. Is it possible that someone who is due to general rebellion was not good enough to be at the head of the bodies they implement and in practice articulates the curricular reform and not by heart, but because some basic or basic objectives of that reform tried to reshape them to be their own opposite when they were implemented in practice, therefore, to counterfeit what he claimed to implement. And since she is a colleague of Vican at the head of that body, she has repeatedly tried purely politically not to be fooled because this is an absolute political issue here, it has nothing to do with science, so she simply politically tried to transform some progressive ideas from curriculative reform into reactionary and put them into school. It caused such a riot, including the ministers themselves, that in the end, the prime minister took over the post and put himself on the head of that body precisely to avoid all the inconveniences and problems of falsifying what was said to be carried out, so the curriculative reforms you said were being implemented, began to be falsified, in order to prevent this forgery and in some ways put aside is in this way to say so. And now the person who was evaluated by the minister herself, because she was directly in conflict with the subject, that she was not good enough and unable to implement curriculative reform in practice or translate what were the general rules into practical policies and concrete decisions, was waiting for a place to be found to move away. And watch what was found by the Science and Higher Education Agency, in other words OK may still be seen in schools, but science and higher education are also some there small, small circle of people, the agency as much as will really influence or have, which are the competences of the minister, and what the Agency's competences are quite mixed up, so we'll put it in English to kick up, so we'll push it to sort of get rid of educational reform and implement educational reform. It is simply not a relationship that science and higher education deserve. With this claim, I have a certain reserve, but I'll come back to it later. So science and higher education may not be something that daily in, in the debates, was among the citizens, not something that if people were asked maybe they'd put in the first place, but de facto quality science and investment in science and quality higher education and investment in higher education and the concept of higher education that understands that this is our main instrument of economic, social and any other development. We will not become an industrial force, we will not become a political great force, but we can become a smart nation. We can become a nation that has quality education, invests in science, and that gives us a comparative advantage, but for that we have to put really the best people. And we all know about who's best, and we all know who's not the best, hand to heart, because we're a small community, and we know exactly what this is about. And therefore I am also convinced that among HDZ members and HDZ sympathisers, if you want to use that criterion, there are scientists who are more appropriate and who would say give more weight to this institution called the Science and Higher Education Agency. So, who wouldn't have been the result if they hadn't been good enough for secondary and primary education, they were now transferred to higher education and science. And among your people, you have better people, so put one of them at the head of that agency, and not really turn it, when you look at the composition and the person you're proposing to be at the head, you'd mostly say, thank God they don't have any jurisdiction and I hope they'll never have any jurisdiction. Because really the scientific and academic community would deserve better. And that's where my footnote comes in, and I was really, really revolutionized when I saw this situation, and I thought, that proposal, and I thought really our science and our higher education really deserved better than that. However, looking at this in the context of a proposal for Honorary Doctor Bandic, who came to Zagreb University, may not deserve it. Thank you very much. We won't support that proposal after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134974	Thank you very much. We'll continue the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club, counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134975	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished State Secretary, here are on behalf of the HSS Club a few words about this motion on resolution, appointment of members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency. Everyone stressed the importance of this agency for the development and monitoring of the quality of science. This agency, in its description of the action, is to monitor science and higher education and to direct flows with its activities, and it is not good that there was a delay that we had not received this proposal before, it is not good that it was too late, that this agency could not have worked because the proposal did not come to the assembly and it was not the opposition's fault, but the competent ministry and the government, if it had referred to the procedure earlier, would have come into debate earlier. Just as it is not good for you to propose in the election year laws concerning election processes, we had here, in the Zeit note of the Law on the financing of election promotion, we had a number of other examples where you were late, and then you blame the opposition, it's not our fault, it's up to us to question, propose and ask, and it's up to you to refer in time to the drafts of the law in accordance with the procedures and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this HS and it's certainly important that the Agency for Science and Higher Education function, as it is important or that we constantly point out that more resources are allocated to science and higher education and all kinds of education in the Republic, and we will constantly point to that. And what I want especially to point out here is that I want this agency to really work well and that the administrative board is very good at handling this agency because one of the activities that the agency needs to do is to preserve academic standards and the credibility of qualifications in higher education. And then, in the context of this, when you take a comparison of the universities of our universities and universities in European Member States and you see that among the first 500 if I speak well, there is no university from the Republic of Croatia on that list of quality universities in the European community. And what still needs to get us all together to discuss, so the amendments to the law and greater separation for science and higher education is that the diplomas that our young people receive in our higher education in the Republic of Croatia when they go out often cannot nostrate, are not accepted and are then forced to do some work with medium professional training. What we do, here we are, and this is one of the issues of HSS, which we do to change that, to get our young people who finish higher education, get diplomas in the Republic, have a chance to get a proper job with that diploma in EU member states if they are forced, and many are forced to leave because they cannot find their bread and their job in the Republic. I don't think we've all put together on this plan, and we need to invest more engagements and more resources to change that. It is also important to cooperate with universities, universities from EU member states, and it is good that our university, there is autonomy, and colleges, to have this cooperation, we also have a quality exchange of students where here we get certain skills, our students participate in many scientific projects, which is good. However, we have not opened up to this end, why not encourage this agency to amend the law to allow if a university or a university from EU member states wants to open some study programme in the Republic of Croatia for which they are interested, to enable them to do so. Is that possible or must laws be changed? I think that the same thing should lead to debate and enable our people because one condition or surely we should ensure our students have equal access to higher education, and then when they get a higher education, that diploma has equal validity, equal validity in all EU member states. I think that, in this way, if any study programmes or colleges or universities from the EU opened their programme in the Republic of Croatia that we should not stop it, but even more so if there is already cooperation and there is cooperation between the colleges, that this should be shared and made possible. And what is even more important for this equal availability of higher education to all young people in the Republic of Croatia is that this agency also accredits some new study programmes, so it probably accredits some new universities. I stress this because new study programmes need to be opened, especially in areas where young people do not have the possibility and universities should be opened and where legal assumptions exist. And since 2015 there has been a legal assumption that the University of Slavonski Brod is being established. And what was done after that? The same rector of the university, Prof. Dr. Damir Boras referred to the Constitutional Court the Law establishing a university to assess compliance with the Constitution and last year, at the end of January, the Constitutional Court said that the law is good, that it is not contrary to the Constitution and that it remains in force. For two and a half years we lost, it is more important to assign some honorary doctorate to the Mayor of the City of Zagreb than to take care of young people from Slavonia and Slavonski Brod and wider surroundings to get the opportunity to study in their town to have a university. More importantly, for two and a half years, he put a stop to this proposal by the Constitutional Court in its assessment of compliance with the Constitution, stopped the University of Slavonski Brod. But what happens now? After two and a half years of adoption of the budget for 2019, 2020 and 2021, funds were provided or planned for the initial start of the university's work and nothing was happening again. Why do you do this to young people in Slavonia? Is that part of the Slavonia project, too? Of course, it is necessary to strengthen and strengthen the University of Osijek, but also young people in the Ship-Posavina County, the Bosnian Posavina and the wider area must have a chance to have a university in their city when the law has already been passed, when the Constitutional Court has confirmed it and the budget has been planned and nothing is happening. And the mayor of Slavonski Brod last week sent a letter to the Prime Minister and the Resolute Ministry that why is nothing happening again on this plan? Is this a message to young people in Slavonia, Slavonski Brod, Novi Gradiška and the wider area? You're not important to us, you're only important when it comes to voice, and now here's the vote for representatives in the European Parliament, and when it comes to the University of Slavonski Brod and their chance to enter some kind of study program where they'll get knowledge and skills and tomorrow be easier to employ on the labour market, to stay and work in their town, to stay inside the Slavonia area, we're sending them a message no, you wait a little longer, not all the conditions are ready yet, so until more? From 2015 to today, here is almost mid- 2019. So when's he gonna get a chance? When will it be able to enroll the first study programs, when will this agency accredit the first study programmes for university schools in Slavonski Brod? I think we need to change that, that we have to give everyone an equal chance for the availability of higher education and the cheapest for parents and also for the state to study in their city, the lowest costs and then the greater probability that if they acquire knowledge and skills in their city, they will stay there because there is certain that there is a link between the engineering college and Đura Djakovic for more than 60 years and that there has been a series of staffed out by top experts in this area, let us give a chance and some other areas that, through the University of Slavonski Bord, young people acquire these skills and stay alive and work in this beautiful Slavonia, in this beautiful Croatia. Will we ever be all equal in the Republic of Croatia, will Slavonci and Brodjani ever have the same chance with the inhabitants of Zagreb, Rijeka or Split? Of course, the University of Osijek needs to be strengthened, but it should also give opportunities to young people from Slavonski Brod and wider surroundings, here's thank you very much, and hopefully this agency will encourage it to speed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134976	Thank you, too. Let's welcome the students and students of the medical school from Karlovac who have joined us, good afternoon and welcome. We continue to debate on behalf of clubs, on behalf of the club of representatives of the Club of Independent Representatives Marko Vučetic, please welcome colleague Vučetic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134977	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Today, we are discussing something that is almost in the best possible way to stage what is waiting for us, which is that science and politics are not at the same time because if science and politics were at the same time, we would discuss this agenda point in 2017 and that politics would be able to contain science, then science would cascade. Fortunately, that's not the case. This political problem of ours and this political failure and our inability to be politically modern has not paid for science nor has the Agency for Science and Higher Education, Higher Education. What we are discussing today is not names that we will judge at a personal level but the names behind which a certain professional career stands and behind which certain certified knowledge stands. When it comes to proposed candidates and candidates for the President of the Governing Council, the rector Diana Vicon, who comes from the University of Zadar, who marked the day of the university, is the oldest university in Croatian space founded as a philosophy and theological school, which was then the dominant humanist social direction as it is today. I would like to discuss this proposal in this way, which is that we are at a historic one-off, one point in which modernity comes to us, and the future that will be marked by artificial intelligence, biotechnology, bioethical problems, and then in this House we will need to discuss at the level of knowledge about these technologies and these problems, then we will not need insomnia to be politically visible, then we will not need to send the laws in the last day and discipline ourselves with the party discipline of MPs, to let them go into the world because this release into the world and this discipline and that insomnia will not enable them to be known. What will enable someone to be known is what this agency and this administrative council are dealing with, and this is a meeting between knowledge and society, a meeting between knowledge and ethics, a meeting between knowledge and the market but not in a way that the market determines science and higher education, which would and should be because then this education and that science would not be science and education but would be just one discipline within the economy or within the market. A social and humanistic area and a crisis that can affect social and humanistic areas or deny that social and humanistic areas are valuable to some societies and can result in a threat to democracy. I've already quoted Nussbaum several times in this House but it seems to me that it's always not enough, so I'm going to do it this time, and that's when the economic crisis took place in 2008, with which all the countries have come to an end, although it took Croatia a little while longer, but we've come to an end, too, and we're just about to catch up with this new crisis that's coming to us now. However, a crisis that does not have such direct effects, a crisis that is almost at the level of some kind of ontological fact, which is a crisis of education and a crisis of higher education or a crisis of science. If there's a crisis in this area, then there's a break-up in the entire human horizon. The crisis of education will result in us having less and less democracy, that increasingly ignorant politicians exist, that all the unskilled decisions are being made and that this impoliteness is being built on not only a party structure that has no harm but that the unskilledness is being built into both social structures and institutions. When we have a lack of democracy, then the more powerful influence of political and state bodies on democracy, when we have developed a high democracy, then we have this influence beyond political and out of state structures, which is the structure of truth and what enables something to develop, that is, those structures that motivate scientists to work on scientific work, these are the structures that motivate the artistic genius to accomplish something in the world. When a crisis in school and a crisis in higher education occurs, in higher education, then comes the crisis of the night of the world and the night of a society. That is why we also need humanistic disciplines, not only science that we observe will enable us to develop that life of technical comfort or knowledge, but we also need knowledge that will lead us to become citizens of this world, knowledge that will train us to be civil, we need knowledge that will train us to market and we need knowledge that will train us to live meaningful lives. Because if someone took away our civic dimension, they took away our freedom and took away our ability to be visible in public space. If someone took away our ability to work and manage the market, he took away our ability to participate in this creation process to time ourselves in some sort of work process and to be creatures that make life possible for ourselves and for our own and those beings that we create or our family. However, when someone takes away the meaning of life, when we do not discuss the meaning of life, we have tried nothing in vain because everything we do is meaningless and negative towards our humanity. Humanity, humanity, is methodologically embedded in humanistic disciplines. So far, from my experience in the accreditation process that this agency has conducted for postgraduate humanities studies at the University of Zadar, this agency is aware of and aware of the values of humanistic sciences and what value comes from humanistic sciences, links between humanistic sciences and meaningful society and meaningful social process and meaningful development, by doing so. Because we can't only bring a man down to a pool of utilitarian or utilitarian economies, we're not pools that can be satisfied with economic or profit activities, but we're the ones that satisfy meaning. The Agency for Science and Higher Education also deals with such areas, areas of humanistic science, areas of normative and this normative can also be evaluated in the accreditation process and seen what is the role between society and the processes that take place within humanistic and social sciences and within humanistic and social disciplines. So, we as the Independent Representatives' Club, I hope, because I haven't overly consulted my colleagues, and we will support this proposal on the appointment of the board of directors for reasons that we can't reevaluate our views on someone's biography which is valuable and which are in favour of the Agency's development and in favour of the development of science, also in favour of bureaucratic or political verification, that what is happening here is truly and valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134978	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is counterpart Stjepan Curaj in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134979	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, ma'am. Ramljak, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, I think there's a short material here, so we have the appointment of a board of directors, meaning not the director of a board of directors who are more or less aware of the conducting system, so we know exactly who is who he appoints in front of which institution and of course we have 3 proposals in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself. The agency itself, just to repeat what we are talking about, its tasks are diverse, above all, it is a body that provides external quality assurance in science and higher education, provides support to strategic and professional bodies in the system of science and higher education, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, the Council of Schools and Higher Schools, parent committees, etc., applications for enrolment in higher education programmes in Croatia and recognition of foreign higher education qualifications. Why am I saying this? Because this is where the thesis is going, and it's about the president's appointment, where we actually want to tell you what it's about. So that, first of all, we felt that, and we have nothing against the Prime Minister proposing the president of the rectorial assembly as an expert who has already been elected by someone to be president of this governing council. That we didn't think that person... to conduct... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] reform, that's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's pears and apples. You've seen what this is all about, and we understand absolutely the Prime Minister's decision to make that decision. When we talk about curricula reform, then it's another pair of gloves, but here we've heard various, maybe qualifications that aren't appropriate, where children are called their own test rabbits, and we need to know that we just today, when we're talking here, have ensured the implementation of curricula reform in all schools since autumn. The school for life that was mentioned, which started since the autumn of last year, means that 74 Croatian schools are being implemented and are not children of experimental rabbits, these children have received the most modern classrooms, they have received what they could value and the way of the new education system, which is constantly being invested, complemented and certainly not the end. We had something that was a curricula, 15-20 years old, and the world changed from minute to minute, year to year. And that's what we want to do, we want to secure that future for our children. The biggest teacher's education in Croatian history is under way, over 32,000 teachers are educated and teachers, and the European Commission itself praised education reform and called it one of the most ambitious reforms. More than 200 million kunas from EU funds have been provided, for both the state budget and the support of the European Commission for the implementation of these reforms. So the funds were extorted. Last year, 25 centres of competence have been appointed throughout Croatia, which will contribute to more quality vocational education, but what is very important in linking education with the labour market, so, above all, economic growth, and thus also demographic restoration, if we produce a fit that will leave school immediately tomorrow and know its work and be able to work immediately and remain there and to that end, a billion kuna for EU funds' vocational schools has been provided, competitions are ongoing, which means new equipment for those centres of competence, new capacities, for students, teachers and above all work on what I said first, a school for life, a school that needs to give competence, knowledge, and not be the purpose and paper as we have been used to. And it's not about having paper, it's about having knowledge, and that's what we want to do. That when children, people, young people, come out of school, that they have knowledge and skills, they get involved immediately in the labour market, not paper that guarantees me something, that they can report to a competition or something when someone asks for a certain waist. More than actually, I think it's very clear, that I'm not counting any further now, because there's been a lot of talk, in a way, that's almost 2.5 billion kuna from the EU funds, over the past year and a half in the Ministry of Science's portfolio. And when we look at it, then all these other stories fall into the water and when I go back to this topic today, where exactly, who in front of whom is appointed and proposed, so somehow it makes sense that some of them, I can understand that logic and diameter, that then the person who is the president of the rectoral choir be also on the principle of the governing council that deals with precisely high education. There's no greater function, if we follow something. And the other functions were represented by students, employee representatives and all other institutions, which we heard in the proposal now not to mention. And linking it to the curricula reform, we may be politicizing. And say, look, you were against that person for the curricula reform, and now like you, you support something. Yes, we were, because we think that everything I've listed is certainly what was important to us, important to these children, important society and should have been done as soon as possible. And anyone who couldn't contribute... in some opinions and accepted all those different opinions, but of course that was our goal and the main asset. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here we're talking about something else, and all of this really has nothing to do with it, because we sure as hell are going to keep working on this whole thing, which so far, on these great successes, no matter how bad it may be for someone or trouble, but I think the most winners... are our children and the future to whom we provide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134980	Thank you. Individual debate, first colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the present representative of the ministry. This is the occasion today, meaning that in addition to the appointment of members of the Board of Directors, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, I say in front of the party let's change Croatia or how many words about the state of science and higher education, problems. And right now I have to say, I don't agree with my predecessor, who said this is a minor formal thing. It is known who is proposing individual candidates and that we here in the Parliament just have to vote. If that were the case, then that job, that formality would have been done in 2016 or '17. Almost 2.5 years have passed since the date on which the term of office of the still existing members of the Governing Council, meaning 2.5 years, this government, this coalition has not launched the procedure, has not clearly proposed candidates and that the Assembly accepts them or rejects them. The key question arises, why has it waited nearly 2.5 years, if this is a transparent, clear work and process, why it has waited 2.5 years, to propose candidates for this significant body, such as in the Administrative Council of the Science and Higher Education Agency. If it was waiting for 2.5 years, then it means that there were very different interests present and above all there was the interest of the CNS because it was seen exactly when it came, supported this government, to remain most, not to fall apart, then different combinations started, different proposals, and therefore waited 2.5 years, so we still have members from 2012 of the Scientific and Higher Education Agency. Dear citizens, wherever we touch and lift something, you see that everything is consumed by political interests, trade policy, and therefore suffers, unfortunately, the system of science and higher education. You know well that, in addition to being a politician, I am a university professor and just in my first term in 2002-2004, a Bologna reform was introduced, it was introduced with a position of political power, it was introduced by force so that we could neither turn or know the deeper process, it was simply imposed. Now, from this position because I work daily at the university, I teach, besides being here, and I know well how the situation is in the academic community and in the field of higher education and science. At the heart of the Agency for Science and Higher Education is and must be the quality of education and science and research, quality. Everything must be subordinated to it. But how do you ensure quality? How do you measure it? How do people stimulate in the academic community, in institutes to work quality? Now these are the real questions that need to be discussed. And that's what he's talking about, and we don't have occasional reports about it, so there's no discussion about it in the Parliament, at that required level. You see, as far as higher education is concerned, quality recognition has been established so-called The NCTS system, a credit system where each individual credit, the amount of credit, speaks about it according to the forces of what the burden, the fund of hours, the ratio of the lecture, etc., etc. so let's say, therefore, one progress in recognising quality especially in EU countries. However, we have other problems that have opened up, which is that we have to look at after 14 years, we need to look at where we came from with the Bologna reform. I've already seriously advocated it, I've said it several times in this House, we need to do an analysis of the implemented Bologna effect reform and we need to fix what didn't turn out well. What's one of the things that's not good? Predominantly, student grades are given, so they are based on almost exclusively written examinations. What's the consequence? The consequence is that our students are getting weaker orally, they're getting more and more nervous. They can complete a five-year program to fit only two to four orally, you see. There's this trap of Bologna reform and we need to do a critical analysis of it and we need to change it. And to change that, the university and the university leadership means the academic community must be on this side to speak clearly and show what should be done and to work to increase quality. We can talk about quality, we can talk about it all the time, the university is in that place and so on. This we know how you can come to more places, to lower places and ultimately, different ways of measuring, there are various publications where you publish your works but what is important and what else should be said? The relationship of groups, the size of groups in the socio-Communist sciences of students and in natural and technical sciences is a completely different story. And we don't have to slave to that extent. What I would particularly like to stress here is that the subject of the agency's dealings is not only public high schools, colleges and universities, but also private universities, and it's not adequately treated, but there are aside from good examples but there are all kinds of things, there are too many businesses in that segment, and it needs to be put to the end of such an excessive commercialisation. Here, of course, and within this House there are several people who will immediately throw trees and stones at me because I know that they defend the interests of their companies in which they work, but I have not noticed that in these universities someone has to start talking about it, so there should be competitions, there should be private colleges, etc., but there must be criteria and transparency and it must be. I haven't seen any conjecture or case of anyone being sanctioned as an institution as far as it's concerned. What do you say next? This government has made one decision that threatens, what? The motivation of people in the academic community to work more, the quality of which is that it has changed the tax treatment of authors who have been worth years and years so that if someone in the university participates in the design of a project, you see, it is treated automatically as a personal income and it goes to the common register and is distributed to everyone. It is nothing more than destroying the simple position of the university and universities that their quality experts who are otherwise qualified to do so, that they can further earn both the university and the university and themselves and it is very clear why, so that it is opened to private consulting firms who simply harass Croatia, that they are the only ones who can do it. So you can't ask the academic community to achieve quality, to lift it faster if you don't work out in terms of the motivation of those people who work there. When I was talking about the effects of the Bologna reform, why do you see it? So let's stop being kids, go to Germany, Austria, you have two systems there, you have a Bologna, you have the other one. You can finish college, graduate college to get the title of Master of Science, and you can also be the one that your people still don't understand to get the title univ.spec.oec. You see, we've been for years and we've been trying to explain what it means, not even the labour market, and especially people who aren't there don't understand enough. What do I want to conclude in the end? Without science and higher education, no society can, it's absolutely the most important segment of everything because that's where we educate people means for the rest of our lives, and that's the foundation of every development, but we need to remove mistakes, we need to bring the standards into line, and first of all we have to motivate people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134982	Thank you, too. On your show we have 4 replicas, a colleague of Vlaović, a colleague of Lenart, a colleague of Sokol and a colleague of Bedeković. The first one's a colleague of Vlaovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134983	Thank you, Vice President. Kolega Lovrinović, agrees with you, without investment in science and education without quality control of the system, has no development or economy in the Republic of Croatia and it is not good that the policy interferes with the appointment of members and members of the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency and the fact is that it has interfered and it has lasted almost 2 years of the appointment of members and it is a bad message to the outside and what I want to highlight, we are not dealing with what is important and it is young people, students and students because here is because it is a little isolated for science and education, there is no pay for teachers and professors, but rather it is for the EU projects that allows them to earn more personal income, now mainly teachers and teachers are competing to write who will write the project, who will participate in projects, and it is forgotten to work with students and thus that we certainly do not get students and students with highly qualified skills and employees on the labour market and are also not satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134984	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134985	Dear colleague Vlaovic, I am quite clear, I agree with what you have said and what you are asking me. You see, politics is getting more and more like that, wants to include in one unfortunately bad way in science and higher education, we have witnessed it these days when these days you intend to see the mayor will give some great recognition for his regular work, honorary doctor of the Zagreb University but Bandic said something honest, he said I don't need that doctorate, reward but rewards need me. What did he mean by that? Well, all those clients need something, they need me, so look, they want to give me something. Watch where we've come from. Well, the academic community must be well fenced from it, but if we want to save the university, the academic community, then this kind of thing can't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134986	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134987	Thank you, dear Vice President. Kolega Lovrinović, a cancer of Croatian society's wounds is infatuation, putting people who don't know their jobs in the leading places and cancer is in Croatia, and undermining science in politics instead of being the other way around, we see that our scientists who unfortunately in Croatia because of the pressure around their necks and the strands of Croatian politics and Croatian authorities were unable to express themselves, they came to terms only when they left Croatia and when they got the conditions and when the policy of the countries where they went realized that these people could and the society could provide much if their conditions were created and if they were not put into politics. Here you have mentioned Bandic, I think it is a shameful example, and as long as there is such a skill, as long as everything is done just to get elections and votes and thus sacrifice the science and education of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134988	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134989	Dear colleague Lenart, you're right, we underestimate ourselves very often so we're talking, we don't know high school math enough, so they don't know physics and so on, but what's going on? When our people go outside, only words of praise come. Not just athletes, not only, they're innovators, they're our children who compete, they're our students. When I come to the hall among my students to teach, I'm a happy man. These young people have passed numerous selections, since primary, high school, college enrolment, hundreds of exams have achieved so far in life. In addition to what we teach them, however, they must have one certainty in this country that they are the same under the law and that they know that tomorrow without mediation and relationships they will be able to get a job. That's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134990	Thank you. The next replica of fellow Falcon, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Lovrinović, I'm not going to be lurking on you, but in 95% of the things you said I agree with, I'd just like to say, especially this part about oral exams, yes, the fact is that we really do have situations that in some of the oral exams are almost gone and it's not good anymore. In law school when I was in law school, more than half the exams were oral and now, unfortunately, they're almost gone and it's not as good as they said about oral expression of students and future generations. In Leven where I've mastered, for example, all the exams or most of them, the open book, and you've been the hardest, so I think we should definitely do that and that going to the written exams is not the way to go. As far as quality assurance is concerned, I agree that quality should be the main criterion, but I wouldn't single out private ones here. You've got a lot of public high-schools that were also seen through their fingers, so I agree, raising quality but equally for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134992	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134993	Well, I'm glad that you and your colleague Sokol agree with 95% of what I said, and that may be the beginning of some better cooperation between you and us in the opposition because you criticize us and step on us, etc., from the boycotts in the media, etc. But to focus on this. Law school, economics where there's a lot of speeches, so these people can't finish their colleges just on written exams, but that's the hoax that we've uncritically accepted and I've never heard at the university from any rector or the agency that she pointed her finger at it. Change that. I can't get our kids out of college so they can't speak and that didn't happen. Because Croatians and our students, young people, be maids, be drivers, cleaners, chefs, they don't have to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134994	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134995	Thank you very much. My colleague Lovrinović, and I will refer to that part of your individual debate in which you spoke about the relationship of AZGO in the re-accreditation and accreditation of student programmes in relation to private and public, and remind you that the Agency for Science and Higher Education, according to everything that has been done so far, has absolutely the same criteria for one and the other, and I will remind you that over the past period, the re-accredit of all the higher schools and studies programmes in Croatia has been implemented, and that, therefore, the impact of AZGO has had on the effects of re-accredit with the work of ten higher schools and thirty studies programmes in Croatia, including these ten, four private higher educations that have been extinguished, and between thirty study programmes, twenty-seven programmes that have been shut down in private higher schools, which is in addition to the fact that the Agency for Science and Higher Education has the same criteria and Public and Public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134996	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134997	Dear fellow Members, it is clear to me that you stand up for your institution in which you work, which is exactly the high school, but we must rise above it, because here in the Parliament we are thinking of, in general good, on a global stage, national level. The fact that ten institutions have stopped, it's a small number, it has to be rigorously analyzed by all private universities, I repeat, I'm not against them, but there's a lot of things there. Croatian society also doesn't care about young people that if they fail at public universities, colleges, that someone rips them off across the road or further down the road to finish something, just so much that they don't know what their parents are going to do with them. The quality criterion must be respected, and such a report has not come, and we must discuss it one day, and we will discuss it when we participate in the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134998	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Maras Gordan. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u134999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This topic is impossible to process and comment on, and not to involve the cruel Croatian reality that speaks about the low standards at Croatian universities, protectionism, the use of public money to build a cult of personality and a distorted picture of our scientific officials at all, I primarily think of the Zagreb University and the rector Boras, who humiliated all those who live first in the City of Zagreb, the second one went to the University of Zagreb, won their calls, doctorates and so on, who persistently pushes the doctorate of the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, Milan Bandić, under the assumption that the man deserved it with the construction of the Music Academy. And now man would wonder if he really built the Music Academy mayor of Zagreb, Milan Bandic, or Zagrebers who were paying their money, their taxes, and so on into the budget, and who made it possible for the City of Zagreb to build a Music Academy. Should every citizen and citizen of the City of Zagreb receive an honorary doctorate according to that same logic? Or should Siniša Hajdas Doncic receive a doctorate of honour, too, but should be proposed by the Transport Faculty in the City of Zagreb because he improved very much during his term of office infrastructure, and road, and railway in the Republic of Croatia? I expect Siniša Hajdaša Doncica to propose the Faculty of Transport for Honorary Doctor of Science, although he is already a doctorate, a doctorate and so on, but may be, he can be even more honored at the Zagreb University, because he has earned much more from the mayor of Zagreb, Milan Bandic, to receive a doctorate. I can see that with the smile and approval of that, the HDZ colleagues agree. It would be good, it would be good, it would be good, apart from the smiley offer and concrete action, which is to be fenced from such things, to send a clear message to the Zagreb University, the Rector, and the Senate of the university that it is simply not right, that protectionist management of the University and the City of Zagreb cannot be done, and that in this way, the money of Zagreb and Zagreb is provided by someone with certain benefits. Now you're all wondering why Gordan Maras here is talking about when it comes to the appointment of President and members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency. In addition to science, it is quite a wide topic, it is important to mention that this trade, which we all detest, has been involved in in the Republic of Croatia. When you pay attention to the Council's composition, it will come to you in one name, which is a very prominent name in the Party of Labour and Solidarity 365, although I honestly don't understand why it is called work and solidarity, because the mayor shows almost no solidarity with his fellow citizens whose money is unloved, and this is Dr. Gordana Rusak, known for changing three, four parties in a year, starting from the Most, through Prgomet's party, and then she split up with him, eventually ended up in Milan Bandic's party, de facto in the embrace of HDZ. It also shows that in this Governing Council this is how it works, that people are proposed according to political and not exclusively professional references and that they are very nicely monetized by the Mayor of the City of Zagreb Milan Bandic. And on this side, when we are already proposing a board of directors, I am wrong because the minister is obviously behind this proposal because there is also a secretary of state who defends this proposal, and it is declared as saying that he is not inclined to assign the Senate of the University of Zagreb, to assign, whose member she was also a member, to grant this honorary doctorate to Mayor Bandic. And then you realize that as long as we have such false criteria that are promoted by HDZ and some colleagues who advocate European values, and they push us, I will not even say to the Balkans now, because it would offend some countries in the Balkans that hold to themselves in science and in certain situations, but to quite one another, another level that I had hoped we had been through long ago, means that we will never return to standards. And then you look here at people who advocate European values, and promote and support such an unworthy policy that all they recognize is the trade below the table, arrangements, non-transparency, destruction of reputation, and I would say everything that we want to achieve in Croatia. It is amazing to me that Mr. Sokol, who will probably be a candidate, says everyone in the European elections, calmly looks at and smiles at the mayor of Bandic, so I would be uncomfortable if I were in his place if I were in such a society as a doctor of science. So I would raise my voice, I hope he is among the signatories of the 1,000 that have signed that Mayor Bandic should not receive a doctorate. Or he doesn't care and he turns away from it, pretends to be for some European values because he studied outside, and basically supports the policy promoted by Mayor Bandic and HDZ. Or maybe he's afraid, maybe he's going after Prime Minister Plenkovic's example, everything's only allowed to protect himself, so we're going to save Žalac, we're going to save Marić, we're going to bring thousands and thousands of people back to the road, thousands and thousands of people unfortunately in Ulanik and May 3, it's important that we save Minister Žalac, Mr Sokol, Zdravko Marić, we don't care about that, and thousands and thousands of people who are looking at us in Pula and Rijeka right now don't care about them at all. And that's the policy and the double values that the HDZ represents, what's good for us, I guess that's good for everyone, that's their logic, and that's totally false logic. And what's good for the citizens, if it's good for us, if it isn't, then it won't be. And on the other hand, that's what citizens need to know, there's a huge difference as thick as the Chinese wall between HDZ and SDP. They adapt and they represent Croatia to themselves as they are the only ones who have the right to see Croatia and in the way it suits them, and we are struggling to make Croatia different, and it is indeed a country of European values from which people will not leave and who will not be ashamed. Yesterday in Zagreb, several thousand people were ashamed to be able to watch the proposal at all to grant Mayor Bandic an honorary doctorate and to go or still work at the University of Zagreb. It would be good if there were so many consensus in this assembly that together we all say, we see that some HDZs have raised their replicas, so say that it is not normal, that we should not work in this way and try to fight together for some European standards that, which should be valid in the Republic of Croatia, and not only use it when it suits us, or when HDZ suits us, then we are all Europe, and when some things that are not acceptable to Croatia also correspond to HDZ, then shut up, glare, etc. Let's try to make a real country the way it should be, where work will be appreciated, where reputation will be appreciated, where contributions will be appreciated, not mired under the table, and in some ways everything that should not be honored to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135000	Thank you, we have six replicas for your presentation. She is the first colleague of the Glasovac, followed by her colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135001	Comrade Maras, we are obviously living in a society where everything knows the price and nothing of value. However, it is devastating when the system and the cancer of the wounds affectes and education. So now we see that it hasn't just become a Croatian reality to buy diplomas, buy certificates, start shopping in some way and honorary Ph.D., I'm foaming you for maintaining the cold drive of the university, and you're treating me with an honorary doctorate. We'll also see you from the boards of directors, but good here, at least after 2.5 years, they've been able to agree, or rip out, there's a national council for education and education and national councils in science, high education and technological development where you haven't been able to agree on HNS and HDZ for two years, or they don't manage to tear up, and we don't actually have those two roof bodies that need to be carried out. its function in the education system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135002	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135003	Thank you very much, colleague Voter, unfortunately it's all a store. This government of HDZ and HNS turned our state into a trade in all areas of action, from the Croatian Parliament where voters were issued overnight literally at 2.3 a.m., voters who voted not to have HDZ in power were issued, until now one by one was collected through Bandic in some strange coalition, where the only condition to vote for Andrej Plenkovic was. Look, I'm proud to be elected on the SDP list, which is 13500 people voted for me and as a candidate in these European elections every vote you give me won't go to HDZ, that's what my greatest value is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135004	Thank you. Replica No. 2nd colleague Vlaovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135005	Thank you. I agree with you that we must strive for EU achievements, especially when it comes to science and higher education, that there should be no policy in the appointment of board members and the Agency for Science and Higher Education, but unfortunately this is because here we see that it has waited more than two years while they agreed to put their party friends in this agency, but here I hope that they will do their job correctly. However, the bad message is that it does not respond to the honorary doctorate of Mayor Bandic, to ignore more than 1,000 signatures in the petition, to ignore more than 1,000 people who are mostly highly educated, professors at university, who protested against it, says it is democracy, can be protested, everyone has the right to their own opinion, and the Senate has its own rules of work. Well, since they already have their own rules of work, I suggest that then Mayor Bandic is named for the Nobel Peace Prize, because he promised his little chips peace to this government so that they could pass laws like this. Although it would be more appropriate [[Intruder: Thank you]] Nobel Trade Prize [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Time...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135006	...time, thank you, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135007	Thank you very much. Col. Vlaovic, it would be good if it were politics, but normal politics, meaning, the policy people believe, which is built, which is democratic, which respects the fundamental values of our society, that such a policy is involved in creating administrative councils, that would be normal because people would know what to expect, but this is not politics, this is trade, trade doctors Andrej Plenkovic, Milan Bandic trading with our votes and our money, that is what people are disgusted and what we need to leave in the Republic forever. I say once again, never, but he would never betray his constituents, nor leave them, but rather leave politics, than betray his constituents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135008	Thank you, too. Next is fellow Sokol, and after him, colleague Karlic, please welcome fellow Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135009	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Well, my colleague Maras, you really don't have to, either you or anyone else to save me, I didn't live on politics before my parliamentary term, unlike you who are practically dependent on politics in any way or I'm an employee of the University of Zagreb, so I don't have any interest in the whole story. As for the very subject of your presentation, it has nothing to do with the topic of debate, there's something called university autonomy, read it, it says in that document that you probably didn't get into your hands very often, and it's called the Constitution of the Republic, so I really wouldn't interfere with the decisions of the university, but if I wanted to, then I could ask you a question about how people at the Faculty of Philosophy get fired because they don't belong to the dominant left political option that governs the university council, if we were going to go that way, but I don't think we should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135010	Thank you. Here's your answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135011	This shameful statement by fellow Falcone almost shouldn't even be commented. So, the man here says if there's something wrong, and by the rules he's responding to HDZ, then he needs to keep his mouth shut. I don't think we should keep our mouths shut if those who usurped the Zagreb University are doing the shame of the City of Zagreb and the University of Zagreb. And to you, Mr. Sokol, it's obviously appropriate and that's the HDZ I'm talking about, adapts everything to yourself, adapts the rules to yourself, does everything that suits you, if Sanader is good, is ours, that's what I'm talking about and that we're the two worlds and we just can't go into the same sentence at all. Me and when it's by the rules if I think it's immoral, I say it, and you keep your mouth shut and you look at the floor. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135012	Next replica, colleague Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135013	Mr. Maras, I understand your frustration with Mr. Bandic because he insists on beating you in Zagreb with over 50%, so it's no store, but it's victory because the citizens of Zagreb want him as mayor, not you or one of your own. But as far as the chips are concerned, that's all I'd like to look at, these chips don't come from HDZ, they come from a machine called SDP, they fall out of it and just walk away from Bandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135014	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135015	Thank you very much. I can see that some jump like a man said something that's good and commendable. So, you mentioned the chips, so you're laughing, and people are disgusted, so you should be ashamed, you should be ashamed that people who are elected on the other list, we're not just talking about some who have left the SDP, we're talking about the HNS, people are chosen not to be HDZ in power, and they're voting for your government, so what are you not ashamed of? Why are you laughing? Why are you laughing at people's faces? To all who are watching us now, here is the HDZ, laughing at you from Vinkovac, from Varazdin, Sokol, I am glad Bacic is not laughing, but he is probably laughing at you too, so you are laughing at what people who hold them in power are chosen by your voices. Don't ever give that voice to people like that again. Never I am. I repeat again [[Intruder: Thank you]] I will never betray you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135016	Thank you. So I repeat, today we are discussing a proposal for decisions on the resolution of presidents and members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency. Thank you. We continue with the replicas, colleague Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135017	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Maras, on several occasions you mentioned Dr. Bandica. When you think you saw everything, then someone always surprises you and in this case a quite serious surprise came from Zagreb University. There are at least three reasons Dr. Bandic could not be a doctor. First alumni of individual universities don't exist. The second reason is that an honorary doctorate is not given to an active politician, and the third reason is that you do not receive an honorary doctorate because you are financing the building of a building through the budget of the City of Zagreb and you continue to finance it. So, when you think you've seen everything, then you're always surprised, and the rector, the role of the rector is to put the position of the Zagreb University, something better than it is today, because as Croatia is by all things when we have a certain place at the bottom, so the university, deeper and deeper down, this is just another stone That's how it goes. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you, colleagues, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135018	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135019	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dark Taritas, you are absolutely right, since Bandic did not build an academy in the City of Zagreb, as he did nothing personal, but he did it with taxpayers' money. Well, I just said, so how many doctorates do you think Sinisha Highash Doncic should get? He prepared the project of the Peljega Bridge, secured 85% of the funding of the project. Well, he should get a doctorate, but an honorary doctorate, not just a Splitian where he has it like this. Both Rijeka and Osijek and Zagreb and Dubrovnik for good, now we will not, University of the North, etc. Well, Sinisha should leave with five PhDs under her arm, if you don't mind. Bandic deserves this Zagreb. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, colleague, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135020	Thank you, colleague, for your time, here you are, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Maras injured Article 238, but falsely accusing you of being responsible for building the bridge, when we all know that Mr. Doncic stopped building the bridge and intended there to introduce two ferrys between Briest and Konavle. Well then, by protecting your integrity, Mr. President, I think you should have warned him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135022	Thank you, colleague Doncic, here's another two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135023	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Article 238 was injured, while Bačić had a bad and ugly dream again, as he dreamed the other day, that he and his colleagues had stopped Gaženica during SDP's power, and openly, there and his colleagues were now dreaming again and that you had stopped building the Pelješki Bridge. So please, if you have any awakening pills to use.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135024	A fellow Maras, a violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135025	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić is likely to have been in HDZ for a long time, since Sanader, and Kosorica, and Kramarka, both now and ten times the foundation stone, for the Pelješki bridge, so he is probably sure that someone stopped it. Because when you put a rock foundation before the election ten times, then you think someone stopped it. And it's not our fault that Mr. Bacic put the cornerstone on ten times, and Mr. Doncic made sure that... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135026	Thank you. So, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, now let's get you fellow Bacic one more time, then there's two of us, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, as he falsely accused you, has now falsely accused me, so no stone founder, Mr. Maras, has set up, but the fact that the government in which I started building the bridge, that your government had stopped him and you should have known that because you were part of that government, stopped him and that now this government of Andrej Plenkovic continued to work. So I'm asking you to be truthful, when you're not already in the topic, which is the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135028	Thank you. Now you're going to have more damage to the Rules of Procedure, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135029	Dear Vice President, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. 236. You didn't give a warning because of the abuse of the Institute of Infringements of the Rules of Procedure,... Used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135030	Thank you. I'm liberal for days, so there's no warning. Here you go, buddy. How? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135031	I'd like a 10-minute break on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, to make one conceptual detoxification, because I see too much rocking is mentioned, the university is in a negative context and one serious one, which has been delayed on the agenda. We, with our political objections, are making it even more serious. And that's why he would ask for a 10-minute break and ask all the other clubs, when the debate takes place in this direction, the boy's playoff, who's on which meadows, set up a cornerstone, to ask for a break to restore conceptual detoxification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135032	Thank you. So a 10 minute break, we continue at 12 o'clock and 35 minutes and 15 seconds. It's 12.25 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135033	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.36 HOURS]] So let us welcome the students and students of the Society of Students of History from the Croatian Studies who joined us in the assembly. Good afternoon and welcome. ... We can keep going. [[Applause]] At the presentation of colleagues, Maras, we have another replica before this break was made. That's Mr. Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135034	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Maras, you attack the doctorate's award to Milan Bandic and say there is a Chinese wall between HDZ and SDP representatives on this issue. However, it seems that this Chinese wall has recently become very stable and reduced so that it essentially jumps very easily. Today, almost on a weekly basis, a SDP representative skips over to the Milan Bandic Club and gives him support. Now you have already been able to top even the HNS by the number of MPs who fled Milan Bandic and Andrej Plenkovic, starting with Saucha, and here to the last Mr Varga. And I'm asking you, how many more of you have any skills and careers left in your party? How many more of those chips are there to jump Milan Bandic into his camp and clap his doctorate every time he swings a whip? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135035	Here's your answer. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135036	I would like to introduce my esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and my colleague, Bunjac, Article 238. I am Sinisha Varga independent representative in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135037	All right. Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135038	Thank you very much. I can tell you that your remark goes to the people who did what they did. As in your club, a few people are also in the ruling majority. So people need to know that there's so much to say a polluted political system that even these saints who try to introduce themselves to the Living Wall have initially given up a few for the ruling majority. So isn't this entrepreneur what Mr. Entrepreneur is called? Muscle yes. So isn't he elected on the living wall list? Seems to me like it is. And in the beginning you pushed from the Living Wall not to give God a little bit of praise to Andrej Plenkovic you pushed one of your own. So take a look at yourself, walk away from yourself, and then give others lessons. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135039	This was the last replica. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here's my colleague, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will use my 10 minutes of individual debate to return the debate to the essence and to return the debate to the topic, because, unfortunately, after the break, we did not return to the essence and on the subject, which is the Agency for Science and Higher Education, but we continued to politicise. My view is that science and higher education do not need to be politicised, but that problems in this area should be talked about from a level as much as possible of professions and arguments as possible. And I will therefore, in my debate, draw attention to everything that the Agency for Science and Higher Education has done in the past years of its work as an independent body and to all activities that it has focused primarily on ensuring quality in the system of science and higher education. And I will mention that I came to the Croatian Assembly from a higher school which is a public, high school founded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a higher university that has passed initial accreditation in its history, a reaccreditation 5 years ago, and which is precisely the next readjustment tour that will be conducted by the Agency for Science and Higher Education in the next 2 weeks. And when I advocate quality in science, then I never put myself on the side of either the private or the high public higher schools in the Republic of Croatia, but I always put myself aside, on the side and on the side of quality assurance in the system of higher education and science, and what is even more important is the cultivation of the culture of quality by the system of science and higher education. So I repeat and stress by not putting myself on either side or the other side because we are aware of the fact that in the Croatian higher education system we have both good and bad, both public and private higher schools. We must also be aware of our joint efforts towards ensuring quality in the higher education system, regardless of what sector, public or private. I will repeat that the Agency was established, the Agency for Science and Higher Education was established in 2015 and that the conditions for harmonising the Agency's work with the Council of Europe's recommendations from 1998 were made available to the Agency in the period when, in 2009 was adopted, the Croatian Assembly therefore passed a law on ensuring quality in science and higher education and in my court since then, from 2009 to now, we can indeed talk in these past 10 years about the right and concrete work of the Agency for Science and Higher Education which, therefore, is, that someone already belongs to the European family of related agencies today and is set up by example of related agencies for ensuring quality in higher education which are gathered in the European Association for ensuring the quality of ENQ and in the European Quality Register for ensuring the quality of the EQ, and our agency has since 2011, in this family since 2011 when they have implemented their first so-called international accreditation, which is relevant to ensure that the key quality of the right of the security of the right of the system and the right of security of the European security of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the quality of the quality of the quality of the system. And of course when we talk about our agency, so in the past 10 years our agency has passed two international accreditation procedures conducted by ENQA, the first in 2011 and the second recently in 2017. These procedures confirmed compliance, so agencies with European standards and guidelines, achieved membership as I told ENQA EQA, and what I believe is important to stress once again is the confirmed credibility of the Agency's work and the necessary conditions for the exercise of the right to full membership. And of course what is more important is further confirmed credibility and recognition of accredited, therefore higher universities in Croatia and, of course, easier recognition of higher education qualifications acquired on the European labour market. I already noted in one line that the agency had re-credited, so a whole circle of all high schools and study programs. In front of us, there is a new round of re-accreditation process that started in 2017, and I must stress this on the improved model of European guidelines for ensuring higher education and, of course, all the reports that have been carried out, so the results of all re-accreditation are publicly available on the Agency's website, which once again points to its independence, but also to its more transparent, more transparent work. I will remind you that before completion and reaccreditation of postgraduate doctoral studies, which is equally important and is launched in order to improve doctoral studies whether, since this particular segment has seen the importance of this need for improvements, and of course it is an incentive for insurance for development, therefore the internal quality assurance system at each of our higher schools. I will remind myself that the AZVO and the scientific evaluations and evaluations have been completed over the past period, so the first centres, scientific centres of excellence which I consider to be very important, have been implemented, as this enables a more significant withdrawal of European funds intended for this purpose. I will remind you that the agency is also implementing the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications, so far here is one data solved by more than 10,000 individual requirements for the recognition of foreign qualifications, and I will say that here is the AZVO with its work so far has really pointed out as one of the leading European agencies, which is also testifying about its quality, and what I think is important to highlight exactly in the context of everything that the agency is waiting for in the future is the fact that the Agency is trying to expand and continuously work on it and beyond the Croatian borders, in order for here to begin the evaluation of the study programmes by using the tools of our Agency for Science and Higher Education and that is one of the reform measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The aim is to better integrate education with the labour market and, of course, that in this light, it is necessary to enable the agency to work smoothly on further work and therefore respect and reach all the standards that the agency needs to continue to work as an important, important and independent agency in the system of science and higher education, in order to then ensure conditions for, therefore, promotion and development of a culture of quality in Croatia's higher education and Croatian space of science. And, of course, it is expected that the new legal regulations are also particularly related to the Law on Quality of Science and Higher Education, which this Assembly is likely to adopt when the time comes. That this legal solution will therefore contribute to the prevailing I would say the constant dualisms that have happened to us in certain situations when it comes to the competence and independence of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and the competence of the Ministry of Science and Education, but here we will discuss this when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135041	Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit, a colleague Maras, a colleague of Sokol, a colleague of Babic and a colleague of Greece. He's a colleague of Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135042	Thank you very much, ma'am, I don't know if it's normal for you, but I'd like you to comment on how politics interferes in this way and in this administrative council where it is shared not only by professional references, but we see that Mrs Gordana Rusak here is very active politician in front of Milan Bandic's party nominated to the administrative council. And when you say we should return the topic, it is impossible to return the topic to Croatia when we have a Croatian reality and when we have what happens every day in Croatia. So if the situation is that in these administrative councils politics is traded in this way, that there is trade in Parliament, that in the City of Zagreb trade is impossible not to mention it. Tell me if it's normal for you that Milan Bandic has a representative and in this board... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135043	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135044	A colleague... to answer your question because of the fact that you insist on turning the subject around and turning away the essence of today's topic, which is to discuss quality assurance in the system of science and higher education. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You continue to return this topic, turn and try to place it on the level of daily political bickering, and also in the context of your own frustration with the City of Zagreb, the situation in the City of Zagreb and your own failure to enter certain structures in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135045	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135046	Thank you very much. Article 238 of my colleague, Bedeković, is injured, does not know that I was never even a candidate in the City of Zagreb, and that I am as dissatisfied as the great majority of Zagrebans with the power we have in the City of Zagreb is certain. So, I'm sure people aren't happy to trade with their money, buy MPs, move the chips over and over. With this they are not happy the large majority of Zagreb and Zagreb, so I am not happy and I am proud of it and I am sure that in the next elections the citizens will welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135047	Thank you. You used this as a replica. So the Rules of Procedure aren't hurt. We're moving on with the replica. Next up's a fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135048	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Bedekovic, you said we shouldn't be politicizing. I fully agree with you here. The fact is that the debate went one way, which is not good because of the personal frustrations of some opposition colleagues towards Mr Bandic. It would be better for them to settle it in the election, than for everyone here to be harassed by it. And as for politicization, I would just point out, in our system of science, high education, I would say that politicization is present, and the strongest thing to do is go there somewhere when certain SDP MPs tried to attach to those student protests at the Faculty of Philosophy to get a few more political points. And after that, we have more and more political interference, unfortunately, from all sides to the academic community, which I don't think is good. One of the results is that at the Faculty of Philosophy people do not extend their employment relations because they do not belong to the left political option. So it is true, but indeed SDP and colleagues from the SDP are the last ones who can teach someone about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135049	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135050	Thank you very much, colleague Falcon, for identifying what I wanted to say in my debate and agree with you. So all personal frustrations of each and every one of us can, and we should and the place is to settle in elections. All those who consider themselves dissatisfied, frustrated, anything to go to the polls, let them get votes from the voters, and then we can talk from the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135051	Thank you. Please welcome the representatives of the Competition Protection Agency in Montenegro who joined us today for the debate. Good afternoon and welcome. ... Replica number 3 of my colleagues, Babic, go ahead. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135052	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. True esteemed colleagues, instead of talking about the quality of education and going back to the topic, we politicise these things, and this is, of course, the predominant SDP in the person of Mr. Gordan Maras. He is deeply bothered by this decision regarding the honorary doctorate to Mr Bandic, but he does not mind, let's say, the grant of a doctorate to one James Blažević and we know why Vladimir Bakarić, Josip Broz Tito. And I believe in the way Mr. Maras performs, and so can you, that because of their credibility, I'm sure I'll ask for the recall of these honorary doctorates just as much to be credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135053	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135054	Thank you very much. A colleague, who, of course, would be awarded honorary doctorate in the history of the Zagreb University, can be discussed and, of course, I agree with you that such thinking may also give thought to the impeachment of certain honorary doctorates if someone has a need for it. That's right, there's a need for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135055	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation of colleague Branko Grcic. Here's a colleague of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, according to the Parliament, there's already a joke that this honorary doctorate is actually plagiarism. But let's get back to the profession. I just wanted to say that in the public it has been very often spoken especially of by students who study at different higher education institutions that I would tell traditional institutions students study semesters, and that at these newly founded students who have not yet reached that level and are still very expensive because they are private to study in wars. So the students count the wars until the end of the study, the payment wars, I mean the tuition, right? Therefore, our interest must actually be to be semesters and where wars are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135057	Thank you, fellow Greek. Here's your colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135058	Thank you colleagues for this replica and thank you for channeling the debate back to the culture of quality. I agree with you, and that's what I've been talking about and for as long as I've had time and talk. Again, I underline and underline, in the Croatian higher education system there are good and bad, public and private higher schools, a very serious approach by the Agency that must be independent and must remain independent of everyone, we can solve this problem. We can't, and we can't solve this problem overnight, we're dealing with a systematic approach, we're doing the same criteria, we're doing it for the public and for the private higher schools, and I personally want to believe that in due course we're going to achieve quality regardless of what sector it comes from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135059	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next counterpart is Hrvoje Zekanovic, since his colleagues are not in the Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, he loses his right to participate in the further debate on this point. After counterpart Zekanovic, at a low start, counterpart Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135060	Yes, thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here, today we have heard from certain, of all colleagues in fact, we have on the agenda, although with a delay of two and a half years, a proposal to resolve the existing and old members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education and its president, and a proposal for a new president and appointment of new members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency. This is a really important, important agency, it is closely connected with the European institutions, it has set certain standards, where this kind of hard core of its activities is, in fact, a quality assurance primarily, but it is not only there in its area to actually care and worry about the implementation of the Law on High Education and Science Security, it also cares about certain items or items of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, as well as the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications. Now, the Administrative Council is one of the bodies that manages and works throughout that system and ensure quality, accreditation, recreditation, this part of the establishment to a higher level of science and higher education systems, recognition of foreign educational qualifications, and so on, and so on. In addition to the Administrative Council, we know which other bodies are there, but I would like to say something today, take advantage of this debate, in fact no matter who are the new members of the Governing Council, if there is an old director, present-day director, or will the Administrative Council give trust to someone, someone else, no matter how functioning the other bodies of the Agency itself, we must ask ourselves how effective is our quality assurance system in the Republic of Croatia? If we see, I have looked at the law on quality assurance in science and higher education, then we will see that the definition of quality in science and higher education represents it in fact, I will quote: "a multidimensional and dynamic concept in which the emphasis is placed on meeting the generally accepted standards and expectations of society as a whole, with a tendency to continuously improve all processes and its outcomes". Now, if they are, is our system of science and higher education, in fact, is it consistent with the expectations of society as a whole so that we can say that we have secured quality? Whether our educational or enrolment policies that do not exist, I think there are but I will say more about them later, whether they are actually adapted to the needs of the labour market, but not only to the labour markets, that we do not only come down to the fact that the education system should be a servant of this concept, the concept of work, but it should also be a generator of the development of a society, and in that humane sense we must not ignore this extremely important segment, and therefore I am opposed to it, not that STEM is potential and investment in STEM, but that I am the opponent of focusing solely on STEM area, and that we are neglecting this humanistic dimension which is extremely, extremely important to work and is actually a lomotive whole, entire society. Why do I ask that question, if we've met the needs? So we see that our actually registration policies and production, so let's call it human resources and human resources management, is actually not satisfactory, and we can see it without any research, but at first glance, to educate some people, we spend a lot of money on education, not just us from the state budget, but also from parents, and to educate children for the Employment Service. On the other hand, our labour market, our society is crying out for some other employee profiles, but it does not deliver, our higher education and science do not supply a sufficient number of such profiles and human potentials to meet these social needs. On the one hand, we have children, young people leaving the country, looking for jobs and their happiness in their own dams in some other countries, and we will have to import labour from some other countries because we simply do not meet these needs. It's not just a problem of higher education, it's a problem and pre-tertial education. But the fact is, there's something wrong with that. And one part of why this is wrong is the constitutional category of autonomy, which gives autonomy to universities and universities in its development projections, in its personal maps to position themselves according to the strategic plans of the county, the regions in which they operate, but this autonomy is very often misused in terms of what you, as a state, Ministry, County, will decide how many economists, lawyers we will be entering, which you will even question whether this is necessary for our society? There's a problem. There's no law on science and higher education, there's been attempts here and there's a minister... and Jovanovic's passing the law under the Croatian Parliament, he did not pass. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We all know why. We all know why. There was a strong barrier, and it didn't happen, did we in high schools subsidize the profit market, where it's important to enroll students, take admissions money, take money for study, and send these kids consciously to the employment office tomorrow. If our universities need to succumb to this profit society, then I wonder if we understand what we should be the role of the university, the role of higher education, the role of science, or we have completely missed it. When we talk about external evaluation, so there's some research, here's the last magazine... list... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for 2019 Unfortunately, there is neither further among the first 500 universities in the world, there are no Croatian universities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Splitski broke through as the first Croatian university, there is a scale between 500, I think 600 and 800 places. Zagreb between 800 and 1000. Research... International research in the quality of student life also says that Croatian students are not satisfied with what they get at Croatian universities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's something we also have to consider, I don't have that much time right now, so we're going to elaborate it all now, but it's something that we also have to consider, when we're talking about quality assurance and how much we're saying that quality assurance is raising standards, but also meeting some social needs, which are very complex, whether we're satisfied with it and what we can do to actually improve it. However, I fear that as long as universities are, or the impression that they are their own purpose, that the profit is that which has become one of the key motivators, their foundings, which is the existence of individual study programmes, while the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which is responsible for granting a license, for opening new universities, new study programmes, but also for re-accrediting existing programs, does not fully control along with other stakeholders, a network of higher educations, that it really fits the needs, to achieve the satisfaction of students, that what they study, that when they go out to the labour market, they feel ready to do what they have finished. To make the employers happy with what was delivered to them and not to have an empty walk, not to throw the money into the wind. As long as we don't answer that question to ourselves, why don't we do it or why we don't do it to an adequate extent, we can't talk about the success of work or the Agency for Science and Higher Education, nor about quality assurance. As long as the new law on science and higher education in this House is facing strong resistance, we will also not make more important steps. And what is asked is, how is it possible for the Ministry of Science and Education to put, I say, in public consultation, an assessment of the effects of the prescribed law where it changes the name and jurisdiction of the agency that will no longer be the Agency for Science and Higher Education, but rather the Quality Insurance Agency in Higher Education and Science. And on the other hand, in parallel with that, there are no changes to the Quality Insurance Act, which defines both the Agency and the Part-Corruption and its governance, I wonder what kind of approach it is to work, as firstly possible, to pass some governmental decisions, reform processes, one such law, to the first degree of procedure, I know that it is... where it's being examined whether it's supposed to go or not, but why didn't it go in a package with the Quality Insurance Act, because it's the only logical, only normal solution and I'm going to end up there and there's no more time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135061	Thank you we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135062	I just wanted to say that we're coming back to mention this profit, as a goal we've been coming to that thesis I just had. Anyway, there's something else I wanted to mention especially in this context that my colleague Sokol just said, that at some high school state institution, there's no progress, because I don't know, there's a left current in some kind of college structure, so it just doesn't stand. So if we have a really designed system like we're talking about here today, and that means that it's getting better, it's getting stronger, it's getting more and more that quality is promoting, then what can't happen. Because fellow Sokol, people at universities and colleges are making progress, at a time when an independent parent's commission gives them a salary that they can advance, not college administrations, or some lobby or some kind of rope structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135063	The answer of the esteemed MP, Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135064	Thank you, Greek fellow, for more than one way you referred to a fellow Falcon, but I agree with you in this part where you say it is not smart and it is not good to talk about structures not to talk, but to practice at all that there are some left and right currents and structures at individual universities. As long as our higher universities in the education system have negative selection and as long as employment, promotion motives are not only of the best quality and that we have the best of the best, so long as we will unfortunately talk about the system of education and science as the best export product of the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately the product with which we in Croatia do not know how to dispose and which passes through our fingers like sand. And unfortunately, we won't have anything and we won't go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135065	The next replica of the respected representative, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135066	Thank you very much. My fellow Glasovac, I am pleased that you mentioned the problem of defining registration quotas and enrolling students on various study programmes, which are also motivated by profit. You worked at the Ministry, you have this lot of experience, you remember that historical study category for personal needs, where in fact, in many public higher schools, therefore, this category of students, used to make extra profits to higher universities, I hold that the attempt to make certain provisions of the quality and existing laws, and then hopefully also new ones on the ratio of teachers and students 1:30, this problem should be solved and therefore continued, just to make it impossible. Irrigating profits in this way to high schools. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135067	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135068	Thank you very much. My colleague Bedekovic, it's not just that so-called problem. at the time of study for personal purposes. The problem is systemically. I mean, we still have a class of regular and extraordinary students today. For exceptional students we can tell, although it is unfortunately not worth the rule to us, but they should be the ones who are employed and for some personal professional reason study with work. It's something parallel to them. And regular students should be the ones who, in fact, study for study, are not employed, study to get into the labour market. However, what I was talking about is the determination of quotas, that is, the need of the Republic of Croatia for human potentials in this part of the regular students. I know it's painful, that it's some cut that hurts, it's gonna hurt a lot of people, but we're not so rich, we're not so rich, we're not so rich that we can finance such a system. Not us, not the parents of those children. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135069	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to try to sum up the debate so far and look back at some of the things that have been said here so far. First I start with my fellow Greeks. So he says he's the parent board for the final instance, which is correct. However, in order for the report of a committee that assesses someone's scientific work, if we talk about choice in scientific calling, to get to the parent board, the college council must pass, and the Faculty of Philosophy must pass through the competent department of history, philosophy, which is already, etc., so that there is one thing and unfortunately there is also room for revote to make decisions that are not best. In addition, additional chaos in the system introduced so-called. the greening law of 2013 adopted at the time of the SDP which, the rules that existed for the extension after 65th has been amended in a way that has created chaos, that there has been a legal gap and that today the competent institutions do not know how to interpret these rules. As for concrete examples from the Faculty of Philosophy and this has been exploited, so some people who have met the legal conditions have not received this extension, and how it will end, if it will get an epilogue in the competent court, we will see. But if the chaos in the system was started, then it was started at the time of the SDP Government, specifically in 2013 with amendments and additions to the then Act on the Scientific Activity of Higher Education. Next, what, colleague Glasovac mentioned social humanistic science. And I agree that they shouldn't be cut off. I will only mention this way that precisely because of this discrimination of social humanistic sciences, the Constitutional Court abolished the rule, again from the time of the SDP Government, which was adopted in 2013. A rule with conditions of choice in scientific calling, which was then brought by the National Council, which was, in which dominant people were then associated with power, that is, the fact, we cannot ignore it. So I am pleased that my colleague, Glasovac, is stepping down from this policy that the ministry was then conducted and I absolutely agree that social humanities should have their place, that the criteria for the elections in the titles should be adapted, means when they are seen next to the databases, that these are not the same ones seen for STEM area, natural sciences, technical, etc. So I say, I'm glad that at least some of the SDP's representatives understood the mistakes of the policies that were being implemented at the time. Next, the candidate's question for the board president. So Vesna Pusic, a colleague of Vesna Pusic, had an ad hoc attack on Professor Vican, but without even one expert argument. So she didn't say at any point what elements in the resume's résumé of Vican made her in any way inappropriate to be appointed to this function. And that's the worst part. So, she used to take some arguments about curricula reform here, but like someone said, it's pears and apples, so that's two separate things. And indeed, in this case, they have nothing to do with each other, but they didn't give a single argument, scientificly, means about scientific work, teaching work, institutional work through the establishment of the Zadar University and its contribution to why, why wouldn't the Rector Vican act like that? I'd like to point out that rector Vican became President of Rectorski last year because of the Republic of Croatia. So obviously not even the university's rectors that's not the problem and they recognize her references, as references that absolutely have nothing to object to. And we, on the other hand, have political attacks here on the other side of the assembly that show about who's actually politicizing here, and that discusses both the criteria and the quality. What was also mentioned was a general policy towards science, higher education, etc. I would only mention here again, that the Croatian public knows, the biggest investment cycle in science and higher education in this millennium, and even if we look at several decades in advance, it was launched at the time of this government. Just to mention, 373 million kuna for Centre of Excellence from the Regional Development Fund. A billion kuna for scientific infrastructure, two large projects that are together about a billion kuna, means Ruđer Boskovic and Srebrenica, which are at the final stage of production. An increase of 163%, yes, you heard well, 163% for the Croatian Foundation for Science from the State Budget. Which I'm not talking about European money. Here we are talking about funds that have been increased 2.5 times to keep the best young scientists in the Republic of Croatia. That's what this government has in store for. If I may say so, I am the Assistant Minister and Secretary of State Gluncic and we contributed when we agreed on the budget, among other things for 2018 while we were still in the ministry, but that is what we should say. On the other hand, at the time of the SDP government for 4 years, you did not have a complete break in the flow of new young people into the system. So young future means young scientists simply because money couldn't progress, they couldn't go to the polls for the docents etc., because SDP's government education was one of the last holes on the playing, so there were no new jobs for the new and best students, persons, the most qualified young scientists had to go out. If someone stopped, if someone was working to prevent the departure of young scientists and the best young people abroad, this is the government, the figures show that. And it's important to emphasize when we talk about what the priorities are and whose criteria are. As far as the agency itself is concerned, as is said, we've even agreed on a lot, we've set a high degree of consensus, quality rises, criteria rise, we all agree that they should be equal for everyone. So they should be equal for both public and private, it is prescribed by EU law. If a private person does not meet the criteria, you know what to do next. But it also applies to the public. So non-quality programs exist on both sides and on the other side, and there's no need to and the Priors say that they're better and the other ones are worse, I think it's the wrong message. Given that I think that the agency is doing quality work, that it is doing better and better, that it is a member and relevant European associations, which is why I think that it should not only survive in this present form but that it should be strengthened. And here I agree with my colleague, Voter, that it doesn't turn out to be just a fight, I think the agency needs to be strengthened, that it needs to remain an independent institution and I say, through new legislative changes, through a new legislative framework, it needs to be seen and it needs to be strengthened as much power as possible. Here I have given one concrete proposal, or possibility, and that is the question of who brings the final solution, which are legal medicines, etc. So it's just one way that the agency and its role could be further strengthened, in which the waist could be affirmed and thus actually constantly work to raise quality in the system. And here I would just end up saying, and I'm going to finish there, the system of science and higher education and education generally doesn't tolerate revolutions, it can't stand changes over the knee, big reformers behind which dust and ash remains, but it needs to work to keep the criteria rising, to rise gradually, that nobody gets hurt, that you don't have whole segments of the system that will cause damage, and then we can safely see long-term progress. And in that sense I think that it came to the agenda well, I think the proposed composition of the governing council is good, I don't see any professional reasons why any of them wouldn't be appointed, that someone is related to some political option or has certain political views so we can't ban people after all, but the list of them and the scientific qualities of the proposed candidates shows that they're really good for the function they're proposed for and I believe they'll be chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135071	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I could even agree with you fellow Falcone that there were some clumsy decisions at the time that Mr. Secretary of State against which I personally was like a man from the university because it was important to limit the prosperity of young people at the university but it was a situation when there was no money, you know, but now what you're saying that you were able to run, of course it was coordinated hard with money, it was just that. If you have money, you can improve anything you want, of course set priorities before that. However, it continues to happen next. So you have a man, a 65-year-old teacher who retires, left behind a coefficient of 3.5, 4, so that's the money. Very often at this point, it happens that college executives and higher education institutions can't take advantage of it and that's where problems are made. I don't know why. Here's a question, of course, for the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135073	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135074	Thank you very much. So look, as far as money is concerned, there's a certain amount of it, but also the fact is here, for PhDs and post-doctorates of the Science Foundation, the increase is 163%. So it's so much bigger for them now than it was in 2015 and the state budget hasn't increased by 163%. So here we're not talking about growth that corresponds to the growth of the budget due to better charge, etc., but we're talking about growth in percentages, and there's certainly a growth that shows that it's more of a priority than the amount of money it's about. As for this second one, here, in general, I agree with you, I think that quality should be crucial, the law defines what the conditions for extension are, so that's the need to determine through the number of norms, hours, etc. and that is the scientific excellence that is also prescribed, the criteria exist in the law and that should be followed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135075	The next replica is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135076	Comrade Sokol, you've done a lot of foreigning, you've dealt with all the previous speakers, and just here's the information, you're as young as I am, when we're talking about rector Vican, who I think is doing a good job, you're saying that what she is. Pusic made for Zadar University. In 2002, you know the Zadar University came out of the corner of Split University and became an independent university. I was still a student at the time and you were away from the university, Mrs. President. Pusic was one of the actors, so yes, Zadarski was one of the actors who contributed. And secondly, when you talk about Mr. Secretary of State, we may have made mistakes but it did not occur to us that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests says that in some way we have abused our duty as secretary by awarding money to magazines in whose boards of directors you are sitting in Mr. Gluncic, the Commission decided in April 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135077	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135078	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Glasovac, you've been a bit of a joke, and I won my first dean award in 2002, so I've been at the university alone ever since. As for himself, not in Zadar, but I was at the university, no, Zagreb, in that particular case. And as for the Zadar University, okay, I agree, I think it should be done then, it should be supported, all specificities of its development should be taken into account, and that state should certainly contribute, among other things, to the politic development of Croatia that we talk about so much. As for the conflict of interest, I happen to know something about this case, I mean there's really one formal mistake, but okay, the commission has determined what it found, that's the case, but it's really not something to call someone for because really no state, no state budget, no one else has suffered any harm in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135079	The next replica is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135080	A colleague of Sokol, related to the unargumentation of the attack on Vican or the inappropriate or false arguments related to the proposal for her to be president of the Management Board of the Science and Higher Education Agency. I will only read from its CV of some of its functions so far, so, the chairman of the Management Council of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, the chair of the Council for the Ministry of Science and Education, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education, the member of the negotiating group in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, Chapter 26 of Education and Culture, Chapter 23 of the Justice and Fundamental Rights, member of the Committee for the Development of the Croatian Qualifications Framework in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Sectoral Council for Education at the Ministry of Science and Education, if these are not arguments that Vice-President Vican will be president Science and Higher Education agencies, then I don't know what they are. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135081	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135082	Thank you very much. My colleague Bedekovic, I'm so glad you counted those functions, and you know why? Because at some of these functions was appointed by the government, which was also a colleague of Pusic, so now, here I am going to be maybe a little rough, and I'm going to say who's crazy here and who's the foreigner here, who's politicizing here, who's using this High House for personal accounts, I think the public sees it, and you really don't need that kind of stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135083	Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will now speak the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135084	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, first of all, I have to commend the end of this debate, as we started, it didn't exactly go in the direction of either the agenda, nor the essence, nor the core of what we're discussing, it was more of the use of the various political attitudes, the reckonings, and even again the classical of that folklore, we're not going to tell the difference, but not who was the 91s, but what who did it two, three years ago and who went to the election. However, what is certain and what should be repeated is that we are here today talking about the board of the Science and Higher Education Agency and I have listed in front of the club which, one of the most important of their tasks, which we actually see is the thing, now that I am not repeating them, the professions, that the thing that this, this debate, went to the end, is certainly not a matter of politics. Here the thesis was made that given how we disagreed with the views of the rector Vican about the curricular reform, now look, she's coming somewhere else. Yes, this has nothing to do with the curricula reform, and we can and can, or we understand the view that in the Governing Council of the Higher Education Agency there are people in front of the institutions of higher education, and the president of the most institution or president of the rectorial assembly, we accept this proposal as prime minister, is it a matter of profession, it's not a question of curriculative reform, it's not a question of everything we've talked about today, and it's, in my opinion, let's just say, we can understand that logic. By the way, all these appointments are just ahead, except in front of the government, it goes ahead of the rectory choir, councils, higher schools, so, the National Council of Science, the National Council of Higher Education, the Croatian Student Assembly, we heard it going in front of the workers, so it's more or less handled by who suggests where and I mean it's not a pain in the ass, as far as I remember, it's since 2004. If I read correctly somewhere, there is an agency, the last time we had the appointments in 2012, and also of course that then politics has appointed its two members and presidents, which is, of course, the right of every government and every policy, and that there is absolutely no, of course, leading to exactly the criteria that should be guided here, and that is, first of all, expertise and let's say, that's the principle of representation, or that you really represent something in high education itself, that you come from it, and not that you fell as our people know to say, who from Mars. Now when we put it aside, I'm saddened that it went back to politicizing, which I can't tell the public, it's such a tough word, but I can see that with some colleagues, I'm sure I might regret that what I've been up to today has been done in the last year, a year and a half, when we're talking about science alone, then there's more than 373 million kuna for scientific centres of excellence, and a billion kuna from EU equipment funds, for scientific equipment and infrastructure, it's just... which I have said a billion kunas for competence centres or reform of vocational education, a kind of reform or promotion, along with all this curriculative reform which are over 30,000 teachers and teachers in education, all of this does, but let's not do that because the one or the HNS did not do it, he just made it possible and put it on the agenda to be a condition... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] that there is no debate about it, that it must go into it, that there is clear support for politics, and that is what all independent or non-party people do. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And because that's exactly what that bitter HNS, the great traitors of the Croatian people put it in, let's now watch what's wrong or actually difaminate it all, and not see what we can do good, better and actually that something really good has been done for our children's future. We will be taking our accounts to the citizens very soon, less than two months are elections, and many times so far and the results are those which we will be guided by, and the results thank God, especially when we talk about this Ministry of Science and Education... The Department of Construction certainly has, so a total of over 2.5 billion funds just agreed by the Ministry of Science, and of course here's the last and membership in Cerno certainly didn't fall out of the sky, so somebody's been working on it, so a lot of these things have been done and I'm just calling for us to continue in this tone as we're here and we're done with this debate, and I think we're certainly going to be much more constructive and bring a lot more good to our children and leave him something better. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135085	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, the respected representative Vučetic will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135086	Thank you. Here in this final debate we came to what we should have started with, which is that we choose the administrative board of the Science and Higher Education Agency and that we need to move away from looking at politics in a one-dimensional way, which is either promoting those we hold to and turning everyone else into a prey. Politics if viewed in this one-dimensional way it falls under hunting rather than social public life. Science and higher education they have a simple task, which is that the world is taking to the future and that those problems that are now happening in the world, and many problems have arisen from this one-dimensional hunting policy such as denial and endangerment of the first woman, children's rights, slave trade, nuclear threat, terrorism, environmental problems all of these listed and not listed and the problems in which we are today science will solve them. One-dimensional policies will create them, and one-dimensional policies are those policies that have no respect for their counterpart. We have also seen this from the system of respect for the interlocutor from these criticisms to the proposed chairman of the board of directors because it was not intelligently read by her résumé, but in a way of hunting with some parliamentary representatives. The unintelligent way of reading the résumé of the President-in-Office of the Governing Council is to consider that it is the rector of the Zadar University. It is about Zadar University that develops, that it is about a person who in his professional career has all the references that are needed and assures us that science will develop and that the Agency will take care of quality in science and higher education. If we lose respect of our partner and if we bring it all down to one-dimensionality... political debates without any argument, but only with the desire to give the opposing team as many goals as possible and to declare ourselves victorious and to choke and choke our humanity in this quack victory, then we will continue with these unintelligent judgments. [[You don't understand.]] Fortunately, at this end of the debate of this agenda point, we kind of agreed to choose the board of the Science Agency to choose people we can think of in a social, political way a lot of things, to bring different normative courts. But when it comes to their careers and their references, we can only conclude that they meet the conditions to be elected to the administrative council of this agency. If they decide to politicise their function, then they have stopped being professionals and will not be able to lead and participate in the work of the Board of Directors of the Science Agency. Until then, we perform as intelligent readers of their lives and perform as those who have a respect for their partners and give them confidence that they will not be blinded, let us give them confidence that they will not be delayed trust that when they are 2 and a half years late we choose them if they need to be replaced and because of the absence of abilities, but first we give them the opportunity to show and activate in the function of the development of the Agency and the function of quality and science development to activate this dynamic, dynamic space of our own biography and lead to Croatian society facing all these problems that have arisen and with all of those problems that we create in this remote way with no argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135087	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135088	We now go to two decisions, under a)The proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President and members of the Management Board of the Science and Higher Education Agency and under (b)The proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Management Board of the Science and Higher Education Agency. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. First, I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of presidents and members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 78 for, 15 abstentions and 4 votes against, have made a decision on the resolution of presidents and members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Management Board of the Science and Higher Education Agency. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 76 for, 16 abstentions and 3 against the decision on the appointment of the president and members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency is in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135089	Now we move to the next point, which is: - Final bill on amendments to the Law on construction products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 601 The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal as a matter of urgency. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning Željko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135090	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, the Law on construction products regulates a number of questions regarding the assessment and verification of the continuity of construction products, their properties, the continuity of their properties, and other issues relevant for the placing on the market or for making available on the market of construction products. In view of the fact that market surveillance operations are i.e. the inspection supervision relating to the application of the Construction Products Act and the regulations adopted in respect of the implementation of that law in relation to the production, placing on the market or the availability of construction products from the Ministry of Economy with 1 April shall be taken over by the State Inspectorate. In this respect, the Construction Products Act should be harmonised, and this is the case with the proposed 3 articles. So please accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135091	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We have one replica, a respected representative of Curray. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135092	Very short. So, on behalf of the club, I can practically just look back on the whole spectrum of laws that we've brought about the establishment of the State Inspectorate which I say once again that we support, if it means more warnings, less punishment, more counseling, less repression, less burden on our entrepreneurs. So, if we have now had 7, 9, 10, 12 specific inspections that have been visiting from tourism of tax from any other sanitary, labour inspection, if this means that now they will suddenly come out more of them and it will be considered that the supervision is done means discharge, more energy, more time for our entrepreneurs to do what they actually did for their company and then we absolutely welcome it, and so this proposal changes this law that just harmonizes with that main goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135093	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. The first reported on behalf of the MoST Club of Independent Lists, Honored Representative Miro Bulj, is missing, losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will now speak for the esteemed representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135094	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Construction Products with the final proposal for a law delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would remind you at the beginning that in December 2017, in the Croatian Parliament, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on construction products, which then accelerated the process of registering the identification of notified bodies to the European Commission in such a way that the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning would carry out the application according to the implementation of the solution adopted by the notified body for the implementation of certain actions carried out during the production of the construction product, not as until then, by the power of that solution, which in a certain way, has accelerated the overall procedure for the certification of the construction products themselves. According to the law in force, the competent market surveillance authority is the ministry responsible for the economy, which means that inspection supervision is carried out by the market, market inspectors of the economy ministry. Today, however, we approach the amendments to this law, given that a national reform programme was adopted in 2018, which sets out measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and improve the business environment, as well as measures to unite economic inspections as a basis for more effective conduct of inspection operations now carried out in the central authorities of the state administration, in particular in the Ministry of Economy. In view of the fact that market surveillance operations, i.e. the inspection supervision relating to the application of the Construction Products Act and the rules adopted for the implementation of that law relating to the production, marketing or availability of products, the construction products of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craftsmen, as of 1 April of this year, was taken over by the State Inspectorate and should therefore be brought into line with this law. The aforementioned national programme identified measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and improve the business environment, including the pooling of inspection services. As is known to be united, inspection operations from the 17 inspections currently formed within 8 ministries are being joined. The establishment of the State Inspectorate will unite related inspection activities in the economy, which is important for the discharge of entrepreneurs. This will remove too much division in the competences of different inspections. The coordination of inspection tasks in the jurisdiction of the State Inspector will also lead to more effective control of the grey economy, thus improving competition for all economic operators. I think it was important to point out. Speaking of construction products and the construction sector, I would say that construction has had a strong impact on the growth of the Croatian economy in the past, and it has now. From the record precrisis of 2008 until 2016, when its recovery began, construction was in decline and stagnation, which certainly had an impact on a whole series of activities with which it is related, such as metal, chemical industry, wood industry, glass and metal industry. The importance and role of construction can be observed in 3 stages. From 2001 to 2008 when the development of construction activity was strong, the second phase from 2009 to 2014 when recession was recorded and the third from 2015 to today when a slight recovery of construction was recorded. What might best indicate the growth of construction activities in Croatia is the fact that 6,300 building permits were issued in 2015, and this year 9,500. Furthermore, the volume of construction works in 2018 was, for example, 2.6% higher compared to 2017. The main sectoral indicator of the construction sector in 2017 and the first half of 2018 points to continued recovery of this activity, which is very important for the prominent. Construction took part in the overall structure in Croatia in the first half of 2018 with 4.6% and was employed by 97,589 workers at the end of June 2018, representing 7% of the total number of employees in Croatia. What is not good in the construction sector is that wages in the construction sector are generally low than in the rest of the activity up to 13.5% below the average. Today, it may be good for the State Statistics Institute to publish data on gross and net wages paid in January of this year and it is clear that both net wages and gross wages are increased by 3.1 when we talk about net wages and 3.3 when we talk about gross wages. Thus, it amounts to a January net salary paid in legal entities of 6,400 and a gross salary of 8,670. Therefore, it is clear that these figures on growth in gross wages and net wages, at a net level, point to the recovery of economic activity in Croatia, in particular, to contribute clearly to the growth in the volume of works in the construction sector, which in itself is certainly an incentivist and promoter of development in the Republic of Croatia. So, we at the HDZ Representatives' Club will be guided by all this information that I have provided, and in particular by the fact that we are obliged to harmonise legislation in a way that, if the inspectorate's affairs are taken over by the State Inspectorate, the Representatives' Club will, the Croatian Democratic Community will support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135095	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is GLAS and HSU, she should have spoken to Mrs., colleague of Mrak-Taritash, she's gone, she's losing her right to speak. The next thing we know, we've had an individual debate of Attorney Gordan Maras, losing his right to speak because he's not here. And then we'll conclude the debate on this point and we'll vote when we get the conditions on it, and then we'll move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135096	Good morning, everyone. First, today I will welcome the students and students of Zlatar High, who are here today with us. One round of applause, even though there's a little more of us. ... Thank you for being with us. [[Applause.]] The agenda today begins with a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Construction Products Act, which is therefore in an emergency procedure. The debate is closed. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the amendment has been submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and a lot. I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. The first amendment of the Committee on Legislatives is an amendment. One, please read yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135097	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135098	So they stay in the proposal, it becomes an integral part of the bill. Actually, the final bill. 2. is the amendment to Art. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135099	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135100	It also becomes an integral part of the law on which we will vote, and the 3rd is the amendment to the article. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135101	Also, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135102	Same formulation as for the first two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135103	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on construction products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 601. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During a statement on the amendments previously made at the meeting, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment committees and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Construction Products. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 97 ZA votes and 3 abstentions have been passed the Law amending the Construction Products Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135104	So we'll move on to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 556 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, the amendments may be adopted, submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135105	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, respected MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Today you are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists, and its draft is at the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 25 January this year, and the difference is as regards the final proposal of the Law in relation to the proposal of the Law itself, concerns in order to improve its provisions in the text of the Final Proposal of the Law in accordance with the observations of the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament during the first reading and the opinions given in the ordinary procedure prior to the submission of the Final Proposal of the Law in the procedure of adoption. As regards the basic issues which are being covered by this Proposal for a Law, I would just like to remind you that in order to comply with, this, existing Law with the provision of a new fifth Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018, this Final Proposal of the Law is intended to bring the Republic of Croatia's legislation in line with the regulations of the European Union. In this context, eight basic issues are regulated, a more detailed national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing is being addressed. The very risk assessment of the party for money laundering and terrorist financing shall introduce a fully new provision on the assessment of the party's risk and on the geographical area, and on products, services, canals and transactions related to oil, weapons, precious metals, tobacco products, cultural artifacts and other items of archaeological, historical, cultural and religious importance. Furthermore, for the first time, definitions of the so-called virtual assets, virtual currencies and custodian wallet services are introduced into the domestic legislation, and legal and natural persons engaged in the exchange of virtual and fiduciary currencies are introduced in the list of obligors and the provision of a trustary service. Furthermore, public access is introduced to the register of real owners of legal entities for the transparency of data on the real owner of legal entities and to reduce the possibility of abuse of legal entities to conceal the identity of real owners as potential perpetrators of criminal parts of money laundering, including tax fraud, and to prevent terrorist financing. In this regard, regarding public access to data from the register of real owners, the legal provisions are drawn up and aligned with the groundwork, with the provisions of the fifth Directive with which this Law is now in line, and in the preamble to point 34, the fifth Directive states that a fair balance should be sought, especially between the public interest to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, and the fundamental rights of subjects related above all to the protection of personal data and the integrity of respondents themselves, we should remind, somewhere in May of last year, that a new general regulation on the protection of personal data is in force in Croatia, so called the GDPR Regulation. This preamble also states that the set of data to be made available to the public should be limited, clearly comprehensively defined, and should be of general nature in order to minimise potential damage to real owners as much as possible. Furthermore, in point 36 of the preamble, Member States should, it is stated, that Member States should be able to require... the registration, in order to identify any person requesting information from the register paying fees for access to that information. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, according to this final proposal of the Law on a specific legal entity, the following data on the real owner would be available: name and last name, country of residence, month and year of birth, nationality and nature and scope of real ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, it is envisaged that, according to this Act, the Regulation, which should be adopted by 01 May of this year at the latest, and that, by the end of the year, data would be collected in the real-estate register itself, it is around 250 thousand legal entities that should be filled in this register, it will be a very demanding job, and the purpose of the fact that in the register itself we do not receive data which, as popularly as it is then called, is garbage, so you cannot obtain quality data from the trash, but that these data are controlled entries, and that the bonds themselves will be able to enter it, or they will bring it in paper form certified by the authorised person in FINA itself, who will then, FINA, based on it, enter the data. Furthermore, this Law introduces the publication of a list of prominent public duties in the Republic of Croatia, whose holders are considered politically exposed. This provision is already in force in accordance with EU Directive 2015/849, but given that this fifth Directive requires the publication by each Member State of a list of prominent public duties, this proposal provides for an update of the description of prominent public duties published by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering on its website. The international cooperation of the Office in accordance with international standards is also more detailed, cooperation between competent supervisory authorities is prescribed and the additional legislation is in line with the recommendations of the Committee on the Assessment of Money Laundering Measures and the financing of terrorism by the Council of Europe, etc. ‘manual’. As regards the very consequences that will arise from the laws of this all amendments and additions, the aim is to continue to strengthen the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system in the Republic of Croatia. The system itself as I believe you know is not only in the jurisdiction of one institution, but it is a system in which the roles of all stakeholders and their mutual interaction and cooperation are legally defined, and it is made up of the bodies of prevention. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'd just like to say it for a second. These are the meanings of bonds, banks and other bonds, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering as a Financial Intelligence Unit of the Republic of Croatia, the Supervisory Authorities of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, the Financial Inspectorate, then the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the Criminal Persecution Authorities, or the Police and State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing through the preventative body that I have just counted has resulted in significant progress in preventing money laundering and financing terrorism in the Republic of Croatia. All the results that the office has achieved over the past 10 years as a financial intelligence unit were freely highlighted in the context of the first reading. But let's just remind ourselves that on average, at an annual level, the average amount of transactions has been processed and reported on average by 2.73 billion kuna. This does not mean that it is so washed up, but that part of the money is so processed as far as the office itself and other bodies involved in the process itself are concerned. All of the above points to the quality of the preventive system of money prevention and terrorist financing in the Republic of Croatia, which is recognised by all relevant international organisations and institutions, as well as by the International Centre for the Return of Funds located in Basel. According to their report last October, the Republic of Croatia made further progress and entered the top 10 least risky countries to launder money and finance terrorism worldwide from a total of 129 estimated countries. It's final. As regards the funds necessary for the implementation of this law, they will not have a significant impact on the increase in budgetary expenditure except in the establishment of a register of real owners where the Ministry of Finance's position in this year provides for an amount of 5.2 million kuna and in the 2020 projections of 1.5 million kuna. Thank you so much for everyone's attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135106	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135107	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Zrinasic, you said at the end of your presentation that over the past few years since the operation of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the fight against terrorism that on average the average is being processed around somewhere you said about two and a half billion kunas of money suspected or suspected of being for that purpose. Can you say more specifically over the past few years how much you have discovered the particular perpetrator and what amount has been specifically concerned and what sanctions have been applied in this case – confiscation, detention? So can we get more specific information about it or maybe nothing about it happened that everything is perfectly clean?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135108	Your Honor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135109	Thank you very much for asking. I've got a series of these here. Of the fact that in a total of 2 thousand 83 cases there are doubts. The office has analysed 55 thousand 560 transactions related to 12 thousand 575 natural and legal persons. The whole of the statistics has therefore already been made, but I would like to point out here that the Office for UskoK and other competent courts of the Republic of Croatia in 2016, 17th, the first half of the 18th, for the crime of money laundering, has been investigated against 71 persons, have been indicted against 70 also one person and judgments have been reached in relation to 23 persons. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135110	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135111	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. So I would like to point out once again that even in the meetings that take place at European Union level, it has been pointed out that it is actually a quality of work and that our Office is very successful and exactly what you have pointed out previously that in the world it is actually the 7th in terms of the success of carrying out procedures and preventing actually money laundering and preventing terrorism. And this should certainly be a guideline when we talk about both the work and the improvement of this legislative framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135112	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Dragica Vranjes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135113	Your Honor, I thank you. Here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, this law, in its second reading or amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism, will support the Croatian Democratic Community Club. So for the fourth time in the last period we have this topic at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. What is very important to stress is that the Republic of Croatia belongs to the 10 least risky countries to launder money and why we have these directives or guidelines at all and why we cooperate with other countries, because it is most often money laundering when it is illegally acquired in one country and then washed under quotes in another country. And we are certainly witnessing the emergence of virtual currencies and how virtual currencies would even allow for the role they play in this. So very simply when a virtual currency appears that has no value and someone of course buys it from a certain other state, very easily by artificial decline of value of such virtual currency money can be washed away. And it is very important that we include this segment in these new directives, and that is what is crucial in the amendments to this law, and we certainly support it to show up to this new one to prescribe rules on how to deal with these situations. We heard that over 2 and a half billion kunas are only suspicious, but, of course, the analysis of this amount of money does not determine significant amounts of money laundering means in the Republic of Croatia. Here again, so the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135114	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is one of the MOST independent lists, a colleague of Grmoje should be spoken, he is not, he is losing his right to speak, so he will speak next on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135115	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. So it was just amazing that this was the presentation of the Club of the ruling party of two minutes, which said that Croatia, in Croatia, has no money laundering, that Croatia is the safest country in the world in terms of money laundering. It seems that in this country the only people who wash money are the poor people who forget, I don't know in their pants 20 kuna, so they wash in the washing machine, and this, and then they've washed the money, this, and maybe they should report it to the representatives of Vranesh or the secretary of state, but it seems to me before that the whole of Croatia is one big washing machine, in which literally all the money is washed, and this, this, this Ministry of This, or this is sleeping winter dream, or I don't know why it's getting paid, but in any case nothing seems to prevent that money laundering. Here, to explain to the citizens how, and to the viewers, listeners, how this money is laundered, it is enough to look at the Remorker affair in which former Minister Bozidar Kalmeta participated, where he clearly described how money was drawn from the budget. In fact, the minister organised, at least so says the indictment, do not say that I, a group of 12 people in his ministry and state-owned companies, such as the Croatian highways, then they paid money to the Czech company Remorker who had an account in Austria, then these same people went to Austria with bags and suitcases, there they raised, at least according to what the DORH, 15 million kuna and 850,000 EUR, they crossed the border of Croatia, no one understood how, because every amount of more than ten thousand euros had to be reported on the border, would come to Zagreb and according to their own testimony in meetings that lasted one minute, they shared that money in malls, in cafes and in front of people's buildings, therefore, which they received. The indictment was filed in 2015, should we at all say that we do not have until today, not even a first degree, let alone a final verdict. Should we even say that we will probably never have it, as well as in many other cases of money laundering and corruption, starting with Sanader, Vidosevic, Bandic and so on. How did Minister Calmeta defend himself in court against money laundering? He said it was political ground, it's political persecution, we have a quote. And now you say if it's political persecution, why didn't the President of the Parliament sing a song to Mr. Calmeta, maybe they're Masons, maybe they're Serbs, I don't know which, I don't know that song, but why didn't he sing that song to him? Not only did he not sing him a song, but he promoted him to HDZ structure, he put him as his assistant. Parliament Speaker Jandrokovic placed as his assistant a person who shared 15 million kuna and 850 thousand euros in shopping bags by shopping malls. And such a party is now coming for this pay phone and says in Croatia is the safest country in the world against money laundering. So tell me, people, do you really think that no one in this country has a common sense? Well, it's simple, in no way logical, there's no rational explanation, so you're just not telling the truth. Should I remind you, let's say the Borg case, where some sort of fictitious contracts were concluded for some kind of advisory services, for some I don't know, consultations that were never done, let's just say quite frankly. What consultations were needed by Agrokor, who has 60,000 employees, who have all possible legal services and who has an extraordinary government-controlled administration, under the government's supervision, an extraordinary administration. And they needed to hire twenty consulting companies, watch out for twenty consulting firms and law offices, that's a minimum figure, so that those same consulting companies that never made a hundred thousand kunas of revenue before, let alone a million, would get 20 million kuna for a 18-month job. So some consulting company like Texo Management, where former Commissioner for Agrokor, Mr Ramljak, worked with two employees, two employees, got a fee of 18 million kuna in a year and a half. Please tell me, gentlemen of the HDZ, what wisdom have these two scattered, so are they, I don't know, Jesus, Buddha and Muhammad with their heads, that their counsel is so valuable? Or, I don't know, what are the results at the end of that consultation, what happened in Agrokor? They are, are there any, I don't know, shifts for the better, is this company saved, restructured, anything, wages for workers increased, and so on. Worst of all, all these fees were received by members of a group networked on one e-mail, who wrote the Law in a way that they later paid themselves to stay on that e-mail, I don't know, which amounted perhaps to a maximum of 10 or 20 hours. And then what do we have in the end? Then finally, we have a situation that when all this is revealed, instead of being arrested for money laundering, then the Prime Minister comes to Bulgaria, watch out for him coming to Bulgaria, and I think the advisors should return that money, from Bulgaria tell us that the advisers should return that money, 630 million kuna, in total. It was not returned 63 June, not 630 million kuna. For 630 million kuna gentlemen, 63 schools could be built, 63 school halls, we could give all textbooks free of charge for five, six years in a row, and that's no problem for anyone, that's no problem for... He says money laundering, I don't know anything about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're the safest country, you have to look elsewhere, it should, I don't know, in Germany you need to look for money laundering, Austria, not, not us, so we're honest people, we need them to come to learn, learn how money doesn't wash. We're a bright model, a positive fluid of folk-free action. And on the other hand, we have, this, a report from two weeks ago that in Croatia 26 billion kunas of taxes are being swept away, I didn't say that, please, it's official data. And you tell me now, if 26 billion kuna is stolen and stolen, because tax evasion is theft, how can you say that there is no money laundering in Croatia? That's who you are now to come up for this constituencies and say the Bunyan, the sun is green, and the clouds are, I don't know, pink, and I look up at the sky and I see it's not like that, but you still assure me no, no, that's it. So just as long as, where's the limit of your lies anymore? It's really amazing, it's just incredibly insolent what these representatives from the ruling majority allow themselves, so they're literally allowed to treat representatives and Croatian citizens for sheep. Here, that's their level of communication, instead of coming here and saying some concrete data, let's at least hear some self-critics from them, if they're not already taking concrete measures. They're doing it again, what are they doing? They are fighting the corruption reportedly, the arrests of the former Uljanika administration, an accidental arrest on 26.3. When the president called the euro of parliamentary elections, it accidentally coincided. And then what's it gonna be? Do you know when the former Ulysses Administration will be convicted? Never. I'll tell you in advance. As soon as it passes 26.5, as soon as the elections are over, all members of the former administration will be out there free. And then you will have a trial there until 2027, 2028, then there will be a complaint by 2042, by that time we will all be deceased, no kuna will be returned to the budget, and the defendants will be punished for the work of general good and probationary punishments. Yesterday, by chance, just by accident on the 26th, that 26th day was such a fateful day, however, one other verdict, I know that it went under the radar, but I'm still not going to let it go under the radar, which means that yesterday was finally condemned, condemned, punished for those people who participated in corruption around the MiG repair in Ukraine, 150 million kuna went out of the budget, and this, and nothing. Croatia has no air defence. Do you know how much punishment is given to the defendant, of course not by power? You want to know? One year in prison. One year in prison. Well, you tell me, gentlemen, which one of you wouldn't be in jail for 150 million kuna for a year? Is that punishment? It's not punishment, it's an incentive to steal, it's a message you see how it's worth it, although that one person certainly didn't take all that money, but that's, that's what they were supposed to determine by preventing money laundering and corruption. How much money did it end up in malls, in front of buildings in white bags, in bags, in Remorker's accounts? We'll never know. We learned that some of them there, Josipovic, was not Ivo, but Ivica, whom no one had ever heard of, all the guilt fell on him, and so he got a year in prison. It's in Croatia, this, the situation of clearing up corruption. Why isn't it clearing up, say, the Brodosplit case? You don't know what happened there in 2013? I'll tell you what happened. HNS Deputy Prime Minister and Economy Minister Mr. Vrdoljak signed a sales contract on the privatisation of Brodosplit, to which the state gives a billion-and-a-half kuna to build 14 ships within two years. It's been six years now. You know how many ships were built? Zero. If we've given a billion kuna for the ships, and the ships are gone, tell me where the money is. Where's the money? And tell me, why aren't you looking for that money back? Why don't you cancel the sales contracts, and see, by chance, Ivan Vrdoljak again Deputy Prime Minister. He was in the SDP yesterday, today he's in HDZ. The same fat guy he sold Brodosplit to, he was about to sell the Oilman. So instead of punishing the perpetrator of illegality against whom numerous criminal charges were filed, you still wanted to reward him. Just like Mr. Calmett. There's a crime here, not that he's not being punished, he's being rewarded. As Minister Maric passed for the Borg group, super, the president defended him, the president defended him. As Minister Krsticevic passed, his hair did not fall off his head. As Minister Grief passed, nothing happened to her. So at our place when you're actually doing marifetteluke, let's say it's a ticket to the government, that, not when you're an honest man, a character, and you have a grain of salt in your head. More about the rest of this story in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135116	Before we move on to the next club of representatives, we welcome the gallery of the female general high school Association of Sisters of Mercy from Zagreb. And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj will speak. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135117	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will indeed try to be as brief as possible. It is, therefore, the harmonisation of the European Directives, so the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, to stick to the subject, I will only briefly refer to something said by speakers before me. So, I think that first of all here very well means these transpositions of the directive, I think 5 in a row will result in an upgrade of the existing system for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing and will increase the actual availability of real ownership data in a way that data from the register will be made available to the public in the prescribed law. It's something that's not a small number of times here in the assembly sensed, requested. It's something that brings us exactly the EU may be against some of which some are here. So, you know how it's a lot of this awkward when you say that someone's bad, that someone's wrong, take away sovereignty, but then when that someone says "see here" this is the way you have to make it neatly, then you take it by hand and say you don't know anything to do and how it really needs to be, well that's not enough yet, etc., etc. So, an interesting topic is chosen, when something the EU criticises or the Croatian Commission then we mention all the bells to the European Commission, and when something that may not suit us, then it is the retail devil itself. So, I think it's absolutely clear to all of us that all those currents and all the legal gains that we've incorporated into our legal forms are certainly meant to be, and they're already, to some extent, improving the quality, and I hope tomorrow and the standard of life of our citizens because we're really having a little bit of time for that, it's been almost six years now since we've been in, some things we've incorporated, but some European standard is still waiting for it to happen to us. However, here also means no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, With us a little bit here it gets some other contexts in terms of certain items, and I call on all those who do not take out any speculative information to make it absolutely complete their civic and legal obligation, to report it to the competent institutions. Because whoever doesn't report, and he knows about any crime, is an accomplice, and he's responding to criminal maltenes and prison, if convicted. So once and for all, let's clear up everyone who has, don't throw away any insinuations, and I don't know what, if something isn't right under the law, you're the first to report it. I'll do it every time, first of all. It's not because someone's good or bad, they will or won't mind, it's a legal obligation and there's no debate. As far as this goes on, really briefly not to repeat the opening statement, I think it's a good thing that Article 25 is, as far as the first reading changes are concerned, that the availability of data from the Register of Real Owners to data in the real owners of trust and trust of equalized subjects of real law. So very translatedly, we're getting that property register with this, so there's not as little as possible that part of the spectral knowledge of the origin of the capital when we're talking about real property, of course, everything with the aim of preventing money laundering because that's what's really the point of this opening up any kind of companies abroad, here with the local owners and where there's actually just going to be some transactions. The best possible Croatian public may have had an example of a story about the withdrawal of money if I am not mistaken from HGK I do not know what the name of this affair is now, but then the Croats may have first met with some companies in the Czech Republic, so go back, so the money is spinning, etc., it is quite a plastic example that we want to prevent here with this law. What is also good and additional compliance with the provisions of the directive is that the list of members of the family is politically exposed, which is the statement that we all must first of all sign, is additional for the purpose of implementing measures strengthened by the depth analysis in accordance with the provisions of the law. So, with whom people are politically exposed in a life partnership or in persons with whom they are politically exposed in an informal life partnership and persons with whom children are politically exposed to persons in a life partnership or persons with whom children are politically exposed to persons in an informal life partnership. So there's no husband or son of a woman were formal, informally or ordinary, all of them clearly have to be the subject of follow-up, first of all it's about tracking, because I think if I don't cheat at the amount of 300,000 kuna per current account something that should be further explained according to the, each bank has the right to therefore how it works. So with this law we also allow financial institutions under this law when they know of a politically exposed person to report to the competent institutions or to seek justification for any major transaction and larger transactions in those accounts, meaning, in particular, what it means. We also have a delivery here, so the office is actually authorized from art. 9. The applicable law requires the supply of all additional data and information, etc., I think it is well done. Now I have one question, I just don't get it with the transitional provisions when we're talking about art. 46th Amendment relating to Art. 67.St. 6, 7th of the Law itself, which states that bonds for whose supervision the CNB is obliged to submit reports and information on all issues and circumstances relevant for supervision and, then, to the request of the CNB, to be provided by the CNB. The 7th Governor makes a decision which will specify in more detail the content of the report referred to in Article 6 and the manner and time limits of reporting and we, in the transitional provisions, say that it is time to make it, that rule for 24 months, two years. I don't know why, I'd like to, I didn't get to the replica, I had, I was on the board, I'd like to do it in front of the promoter explain why in the HNB surveillance, so the regulations, which are all in that surveillance section, it takes two years for the governor to pass this internal act, six months to understand, maybe if we look at financial years for supervision because we have in transitional provisions that all the supervisions that started under the old law are carried out under the old law, so that's not the solution, so I'm curious why 24 months, it's kind of got into my eye. And in conclusion, I would like more if we were going one step further to try to be maybe a little ahead of Europe, perhaps by example of the U.S. where there is a private audit institute, so, you know, when tax collectors come to some legal person in tax supervision. Surely, by means of the OIB and the close connected persons with that OIB that can be made in the Tax Administration that have the data, we can already get information about me by listing all of our ownership at least some obvious disproportionate of income in some lifetime or in recent years I don't know how many years compared to at least the property shown and reported. Here we're talking about where we want to hide this property, that we have tools, methods of hiding the property, precisely because it's disproportionate to the receipts. If anyone has a receipt of 200,000.00 a.m. a.m. a.m. in 10.m. could get 2 million kuna, if he has 10 property, then apparently some receipts did not report to the tax and they are subject to tax checks and, of course, to the tax penalty above all to be charged by the highest tax as provided for by 40%, etc., to charge it. Very simply, it doesn't have to be a politically exposed person, it doesn't have to be any person A and B, if he was working with cash, he wasn't issuing bills, a craftsman, whatever he was, whatever he was, he had to determine the origin of that property, I would like it to be absolutely able to do it for every person and not do it on the application, but that it could be done more or less in the control of private persons because obviously if some great disproportionate then it could certainly be found links with some legal persons and then come into the context of this law. Of course, the HNS Club will accept this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Here's what I'd like is this explanation for why it's 24 months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135118	Next up, the Representatives' Club is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135119	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, how nice it is to hear the information that we live in a country of dembelia where there are no problems with money laundering and financing terrorism because thousands of suspicious transactions, I mean over 50,000, linked to 8,000 legal entities, 3 hundreds and some orders to banks to block funds worth over 300 seems to me 60 million kuna and ultimately 71 applications, nothing. How and how it will be when we are a wonderful country that is also declared by international structures by one of 10 model countries, among the first 10 model countries in terms of money laundering. I say, it's wonderful to live in such a country and it's very honorable and wonderful to be a member of HS, the highest legislative body, if it weren't for reality to be different, if we, who remember a little longer, knew that in the 1990s, the RH was built on robbery, tax evasion, the scams of the worst species, who had legalized a whole series of illegal practices, money withdrawals, money laundering, social destruction, and later privatised companies, and today as if nothing had happened. Do you remember that businessman who said that management work is like riding a bike where you have to keep spinning or if you stop, you fall. He had over two hundred companies founded so that it looks like a jungle that you no longer know who owns it and that he's spilling from hollow to empty, and when it all went to Honduras, then it turns out how much damage was done to social public capital, reputation, jobs, companies, and so almost all Croatian tycoons worked until the day of today, and even today the question of how they got money for initial capital, how someone who was the son of the most common official overnight without creation, patents, new entrepreneurial initiatives suddenly became a millionaire. Whose money is that? Whose money was in the hands of those little brats who made the caste of the two hundred richest families in the Republic of Croatia? We too witnessed stories about the diaspora collecting funds for the defence of Croatia that did not end up where they ended up, concrete people were mentioned, specific situations, concrete witnesses, nowhere heard of such people being convicted. Well, we remember the story of the fifth mate, what the fifth mate is but a cover-up of real property. This Law does not go to the end correctly in this sense to contain this space because, as you know, the implementation of the European Directive does not go to the end. The European Commission has announced that, in this context, it will strengthen the existing Directive because it has already adopted it, issued its opinion that the availability of real ownership data must be absolute, especially when it comes to journalists or public interest. And what does this Law say? This law says the minister will adopt a regulation that will define, possibly and limit the rights of the public to the availability of such data, and give all the rights to the FINA to charge as much as it wants when someone needs information on who owns the company. So, until today, we don't know who owns some Croatian media, which percentage, from which funds, and that's how it's going to continue. A register that announces real owners is really a big deal, but it's a public interest that he needs to be available. If all the information about us Assembly representatives and our property cards is available to the public, why should we vote for such a single solution that puts someone in a privileged position, which is the reason. On the other hand, we live in a country that has had the biggest money laundering scandals in the last few years, what is Fimi Media but money laundering?, extracting funds from public companies to use a political party through fictitious accounts, fictitious services, so what is it, rather, money laundering. These days it passes under the radar I see, there are many silences about it, in the stages of the Zagreb court there are sentences of a group of suspects, 21 people who are said to have participated in an organised chain of money withdrawal, money laundering and tax evasion, because a group of so-called entrepreneurs who have been known as repairs to all those who need to get money out of the companies and wash them out, and give them cash for a certain fee. And no less or less in the whole group, the first were convicted, in a hurry in agreement with USKOK, four people who were doing a dirty campaign for the president, or then candidate Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic and the Croatian Democratic Community. People admitted, and got sentencing sentences or convictions, they got paroled prison sentences with collateral fines and a obligation to work for the common good. People admitted that in 2015, for the purposes of the Croatian Democratic Community and Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic carried out the worst possible dirty campaign against political rivals, inventing and placing information aimed at turning public change's attitude against political opponents or in favour of their financial employers. A dirty campaign to spread fake news, claims, indigestion. Does anyone feel guilty about that maybe? Why has President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic not shown herself about this these days? Why didn't she tell the public that she was at least sorry that she had people on her team who were the only target they had to black out and destroy political opponents? Is that moral, is that ethical? And to pay them, money was laundered. According to the information we have in the entire process since 2017, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering was not involved, but was involved in the USKOK and the so-called Tax UskoK and the Independent Sector for the detection of tax fraud. I ask and where was the Money Laundering Prevention Office? How could 70 million kuna transactions not have been noticed? Is it possible that the Office of Prevention, the Prevention of Money Laundering, the capital that the political champions of the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia entered in the Republic of Croatia and built, and bought huge properties, and started businesses? Has the Office ever dealt with entrepreneurs from war-torn and attacked countries, who came and bought hotels in the Adriatic in the 1990s? Has it occurred to anyone that there might be money laundering? You ever heard of a case like that? No, of course not. And you won't, so we won't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135120	The next individual debate was supposed to be colleagues of Mira Bulja, gone, lost his right to speak, and the next individual debate would be a respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135121	Dear ladies and gentlemen. It's about money laundering, but the biggest money laundering is legal, and it's actually stealing state money through credit, so foreign banks from Croatia are pulling tens of billions of kunas out each year, while our citizens are digging through containers, tormenting with the payment of directors, all gatherings, etc. But when it comes to the withdrawal of billions of kunas or not billions, tens of billions of kunas each year from our country from foreign banks, then nothing is disputed, then it's legal, then it's socially acceptable, etc. However, when a person earns some change in a blurry way, then all institutions are engaged there. Here, we had an example of that group that was running around the media allegedly 20 million kunas, some VAT fraud, etc. But the problem isn't these con men, the problem is if they are con men so that no one can say it now, everyone isn't guilty until it's proved by a powerful verdict. What's important is that these people, they're being paraded, and the bankers are laughing, the bankers are watching and seeing what this change is, we're pulling billions, nobody's questioning it, and as long as the bankers are being protected, we're going to be dealing with small fish, eventually a few small interest rates, and the foreign banks that are pulling out billions are going to go through the lichen, their directors are going to have enormous bonuses, profits are going to be huge, and we're going to end up with debts, that's what money laundering is about. And as for the financing of terrorism, so look, you know what country created the Taliban, you know who funded the Taliban and armed them. The U.S. government admitted that that's exactly what they were doing. It is also known that America funded ISIL to overthrow the Syrian government. You can also see that various armed groups that took over power in Libya, or rather pushed the country into anarchy, many of which are linked to terrorism, have succeeded in taking positions of power thanks to the Western forces. And when you see the West funding, weapons, military aids, even weapons giving these people, you have to ask yourself, who is the world's top terrorist financier? Is it some anonymous guy who's paid $200, $500, $1,000, or is it big countries, big forces, gathered around the NATO Pact that first brings terrorists somewhere, for example. in Afghanistan to power, and then he says, if we have to get them out of power or let's say we bring ISIL to a position of power in Syria, then they say, if we have to intervene now, we have to fight ISIL or, say, so it's known in Iraq when terrorism appears, it's together with America, until there were no American fingers in Iraq, there were no suicide bombers and other types of terrorism, but as soon as America suddenly comes there and there's terrorism there, and now the question is, who is the main factor that has contributed to the emergence and spread of terrorists in Iraq? Here, think one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, we can make it up to 1,000, 10,000 or million, and I believe Mr. Zekanovic will say at the end of the day, and yet America had the most fingers in the jam. However, American involvement, NATO involvement, including the Republic of Croatia that sent weapons to those countries, no one is considering it to be a financing of terrorism, but here, ladies and gentlemen, the breaking up of Gaza, the killing of civilians, the destruction of the houses of Palestinians, the violent raids of the Palestinians, the system of apartheid, so isn't it state terrorism and no one cares. So, those who give billions of aid to the Israeli state, who finance this apartheid, so none of them will be on the blacklist, none because the state terrorism, the terror that the state does, is considered terrorism. Now, if terrorism were to, say, if one of you three were to sit as legislators, now that you're going to personally give some money to a group, well, we're sorry, you're financing terrorism, but when one country is occupying the Golan High, the West Coast, East Jerusalem, it's breaking up Gaza, it's periodically every two years it's not terrorism, no, then it's a struggle for democracy, for human rights, it would even say that they're beating that state of Israel as the only democracy in the Middle East. However, there is one thing about democracy, that democracy implies the will of the people, the will of the citizens, and now imagine whether Palestinians who can live under occupation, can they go to elections and vote against occupation and here's a word, we want the occupation to stop. The answer is no, imagine that thought. So the Palestinians can't go to elections, say in Hebron and vote against apartheid, against racial segregation, etc., no, they don't have the right to vote. So, you have a country that has banished the original population from its territory, then occupied the rest of Palestine and those people who live there in refugee camps or in their homes, treats them as not actually citizens of second order, but seventh order because they have no rights there, restricting even their water flow, freedom of movement, etc. And they're beating up the only democracy in the Middle East, and the Palestinians, they're evil terrorists. So when Israel kills by bombing Gaza 2000 civilians, it's terrorism? Nim, it's a spread of peace and love, and if a Palestinian kills an Israeli soldier, then it's terrorism, imagine what thought. So if you live under an occupation of Israeli and you fight occupation, that's terrorism, and that's not terrorism that you're terrorizing and occupying people. Also, if America is occupying Iraq and now someone is fighting an American occupation, he's a terrorist, and he's not an American who has destroyed the entire country and pushed it into the stone age of a terrorist, no. And then the question arises when we have answered who are the biggest terrorists in the world, the question is, who are funding them and whether those who finance American, Israeli or whatever terror or terrorism, whether they will ever answer, will not. And by doing so, this law doesn't make sense, this law won't change anything, this law applies, or relates to foreign banks that extract billions from our country, nor does it apply to national terror, but does it apply to some small fish. And then you're gonna show us the tiny fish in front of the TV cameras and then you're gonna say, "Look, these are the bogeymans, these are the evil people, we're fighting the evil bastards, no." And who are we actually fighting? We fight for evil, we fight for America, which I have described as the great devil. And that great devil wants to rule the whole world, enslave every country with loans or weapons, or military, and of course under the story of spreading democracy. And here I don't know who, I don't know if there's anyone here to believe that story? And why do I ask that, because isn't it unusual that only where there is oil they're interested in democracy, say, in Venezuela, the largest oil in the world, in Iraq, in Iran, they would export democracy, and Libya would export to Syria. As it is somewhere to export democracy to Eritrea, to South Sudan what Darfur, Zimbabwe, to Croatia, why not export democracy to Croatia, we don't really have democracy here, so of course they don't care about democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135122	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135123	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yes Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the ministry, so today we're talking about money laundering, so we're talking about how money is spent, and there's no trace of it. [[Intruder: Let's not listen here to all the possible stories of the world.]] Although representatives of the ruling majority assure us that Croatia is safe from money laundering, unfortunately it is not. So, even movies have been made about how money is clouded. You have, say, a documentary showing that the president of a sports club in the Republic of Croatia washed EUR 15 million which were then returned to his family. Very interesting documentary, maybe we should take a look at this little bit for education. Anyway, the money went through 40 bills. Even 40 accounts, and most interesting of all, have passed the entire globe. So he was traveling I don't know from Europe to Asia, from Asia to Central America, to finally end up in cash again in Croatia. And maybe it wouldn't have been so bad if it hadn't been, at least according to one national weekly, one good part of that money ended up in a political campaign, in a political campaign, for the president of the state. Isn't that terrible? That's exactly what I'm saying because now there's a new campaign going on in which HDZ has passed the law that can be spent on 4 million kuna campaigns, but I'm sure they'll spend at least 25. And the question is, where will they finance it? So this particular campaign for the president has shown you where the money can be hidden. And one of those ways is to pay for social media ads on social networks. I have been watching every citizen of this Croatia as a candidate for the President of the Republic on a daily basis with abnormal advertising amounts, pays ads, I guarantee you that at least 1.5 million kunas have been hit in the campaign, I am talking about social networks, but this is not shown in campaign costs, it is not shown. Neither source nor purpose, because to finance yourself on the social network of this anyone can pay an ad for you, neither you nor your client nor this one can be seen, but you can see normally in ads that are constantly in the computer and mobile windows. Therefore, it would be very good and we will address both the DIP and the Ministry of Administration directly on the occasion that advertising on social networks must be applied to campaign costs, it must apply. Another thing you have so-called. Google ads, so ads that go by Internet search engines and you have ads that go by all possible portals, are 1 to 3 cm wide ads that serve as commercials. Again, HDZ literally has 5 ads on each portal. You know how much an ad costs? One week 2,000 kuna. So the ad width of 3 cm is 5 cm long, the weekly publication costs 2,000 kuna. So count on 6 weeks of campaign, so count all the portals in the Republic, how much money was spent, is that shown in the campaign cost, did that money go over the campaign bill? He didn't go over the campaign account. If you think she is then please show me the campaign bill so we can see those funds. That's how money is clouded, how someone in the campaign can spend far more than other candidates who stick to the rules of the game. Here's another case, you have now one party whose representatives are not here, for three weeks now, running a campaign for Europarliamentary elections. They bought hundreds of jumbo posters per RS, advertised their list holder, advertised their party. Whether that money will be shown in campaign costs, they won't, because they'll say it wasn't for the campaign, even though a little kid in kindergarten knows it was for the campaign and nothing but the campaign. Will you gentlemen from the State Department ask that these funds be presented as campaign costs or that someone will be able to have a 10 million kuna campaign again, and others will be able to have a two-year-old. If it falls into campaign costs, let's say a waste of state money to get this particular round of voters. Why is it that just before the election, the government has forgiven 700 million kunas of debt to senior Croatian soldiers and I don't know those who have been raising the loans of the development fund, I don't know exactly what it's called. It's the same campaign cost, it's not allowed, it's not supposed to be done a month, two before the election, it should be banned. It's all an invisible cost to you, it's a cost, it's clear what purpose it's spent on, but it's never shown as a cost, but it's wanted to be shown as something quite a tenth. Here's your chance to act. I'd like to finish here, given that I have a little time left to remind you once more of this Brodosplit case that I'm asking you to clear up as soon as possible, which is, for example, that one. that the new owner of Brodosplit Shipyard Mr. Debeljak we are tasked with making a restructuring program, about his cost as the new owner. However, he did not make it for his own expense but was paid by the state, and 33 million kuna. The cost of writing a restructuring plan really costs 500,000 kuna, it's a real cost, it's the new owner according to the purchase contract I had to pay. Not that he didn't pay for it himself, but he charged it to the state 66 times more than that cost really does. Under the contract to buy Brodosplit, the new owner had to give severances to workers on his own, all 220 million kunas of severance were paid out of the state budget. And another reason for the sale contract to be annulled because the non-respected liabilities or assets were not spent on purpose. Furthermore, not only were the funds not spent on purpose but the new owner of Brodosplit founded 60 to 80 subsidiaries of his daughter from where the state money he received for subsidies was transferred and never returned. What's spent, you don't know. Does it really matter to you what I'm saying right now? Are you aware that your money, your personal money, because we are all taxpayers and with our co-responsibility, us who represent the government in this country, someone is playing with hundreds of millions of kunas and billions. Will this law of yours stop it in any way, will you undo the privatisation of Brodosplit, after six years of obvious robbery, what are you waiting for? You're waiting for the trustee to leave or I don't know what? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135124	We have a replica of the Honorable Uncle, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135125	Thank you Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, your debate has been really interesting and it is becoming the impression that literally, you are personally very well aware of all these machinations on social networks, but it is only clear whether you have now debated as a representative of the Living Wall or representative of the Alphacade of Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135126	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135127	Why won't they? Thank you very much, Agent Strick, so Live Wall last week filed criminal charges against all three prime ministers, against Zoran Milanovic, Tihomir Oreskovic and Andrej Plenkovic, and with your great disdain and regret, I must tell you that these criminal charges will sooner or later receive quite real content. So you don't have to worry about this, we're monitoring what's going on in Brodosplit, Uljanik, May 3rd, etc. We don't consider administrations innocent in this whole case, but we still think that it's the ones who have to answer first and foremost, and that's what's going to happen. It is not one country in the world that has placed its employers in their place in good time and in the proper scope of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135128	The next individual debate is a respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135129	Dear Secretary of State is speaking about money laundering and not talking about privatisation is actually impossible, so many colleagues today mentioned the privatisation of the Uljanniks, but I would talk about that 90 privatisation. at the beginning. So we forgot her, who put the pit in her. While one but literally, no matter how many times that happened, they were killed on the front, the other were put in their own pocket. And once we have a caste in Croatia, and it's thousands and thousands, today they're called entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs who have millions and their children drive expensive cars that are created thanks to privatisation, and Croatian economies are gone, so production was no longer available, because they were not in the interest of continuing production, only to enrich themselves and their families. And that's what nobody's talking about. And then when the privatisation review is mentioned, then it's something, but it's been a long time, 20 years and a few years, it's been, let's not talk about it now, let's not pull that black laundry out, let's not put salt on the wound, it can't be solved. Or it could be seas. We need to know who bought factories without kuna, because it's money laundering. And then if we want to prevent money laundering, we can only prevent it if we go chronologically from the beginning of the Croatian state to today, to see who bought a factory without money, later sold the land and today is strutting and today is the financier of some parties. Why is it financing them, and precisely because of the fact that the law or decision on the review of privatisation is not made? And then we get to the famous Oilman and May 3rd. So the group of Oilies, so we hear all kinds of numbers, here's really how much I follow the situation I don't know anymore is it about 12 billion, 7 billion, 5 billion kunas of budget money. So a friend of mine told me yesterday, so see if it's only 5 billion kuna, and there's not even 5,000 workers to give each worker a million kuna, I would solve the problem. So a million kuna per worker is gone. And then yesterday we have a fantastic decision that I welcome, that we understand each other, Croatian institutions, let us introduce order. So for the first time in our Istria that doesn't match I guess colleagues who come from the Istrian peninsula, let's put in order, let's see what's going on in Ulnik, so a few dozen of them ended up in investigative talks, the DORH doing his job. So what's it gonna be? Well, nothing, because the Croatian judiciary has not solved any problems so far, not a single situation in economic crime. The only ones serving prison sentences in Croatia are who, Croatian generals in The Hague, no one but Croatian generals in The Hague has ever served a day or days in Croatia for economic crime, nor will they. So this one, I'm going to say interestingly timed action, let's just grab it before the election exactly, is actually one game. A few weeks will talk about it, a few ruling parties will get the PR as they deal with corruption, in a few months, everyone will forget because too much is from Sanader, Agrokor, Uljanika simply that people can no longer process and the story will fall into oblivion. But nice fellow here also talked about the legal money laundering, how much money they're legally collecting today, for example. politicians, how much money is legally taken from the Croatian state by the EU, EUR 536 million will Croatia pay its EU membership this year, that is 4 billion kuna, we will pay back much, much, much less. And where's that difference, where's the difference of money? The difference of money goes to several hundred thousand, I will call it EU love, which in the Council of Europe, which in the Commission, which in the European Parliament, several hundred thousand. And it's legal, it's legal for someone to have a salary of £200,000 and it's not money laundering because he's been working all day and he's responsible. That's legal. It's legal for some MP to have 15,000 kuna salaries, and someone who works in smuggling is legal to have 3,000 kunas or 5,000 kunas and it's not money laundering, it's okay, because the EU is working because these people have a very large responsibility and they can have 200 maybe more thousands of kuna salaries to make it work nicely because they are very capable and responsible. On the other hand, it will be taken care of if someone illegally pays 200, 300 and 500 kuna in order not to finance terrorism. And when we talk terrorism, terrorism is one real threat, and then precisely because it's a threat we didn't sign the Marrakech Agreement, we did sign it and we allowed the immigrants to go through Croatia unhindered. And yesterday we saw what was happening, yesterday they were caught in Ogulin, they were fighting with our officers and what was nothing, now they're taken care of at the asylum center in Trill, at whose expense, at our expense. And do you know that 20% of those who migrate Pakistanis, Afghans to be law-abiding and potential terrorists, and that's no problem, that's not the problem we're going to sign the Marrakek Agreement, we're going to make it easier for them to get through our country, we're going to let them beat up Croatian police officers, and we're going to fight terrorism with some laws that are actually semi-supervised. So we have real money laundering through institutions, through tens of thousands of people who have been given syncures in state institutions today, and that's legal, and on the other hand, we have to be very careful that each lip, every lip that someone will give to someone in their pocket, is taken care of so as not to finance terrorism or to launder money. And finally, as much as the money of banks that are not owned by either of the Croatian banks, we may well still have, boasting about the HPB as those of Croatian property but actually nothing more than it, how much they get out of Croatia, how much money they make from Croatian citizens, and that's legal, it's not money laundering, it's okay. We set up a system, if any politician or any institution of interest, draws money, it's legal. If it's done by an orphan, then it's money laundering and potentially financing terrorism. I'll be back to square one. I would really like to finally in the history of the Croatian state to happen that some process that was started in front of elections like this with the Ulnik, to end in the end. Of course, if it is proven that the gentlemen are to blame with the judgmental long-standing prison sentences. Unfortunately, experience teaches me but there are no opposite examples that this will not happen, that this time it will end in endless trials, in well-paid lawyers and in fact that the only purpose of such performances is the PR, in this case the leading party in Croatia, ahead of the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135130	Before we continue our work, we welcome the gallery of students and students of the Croatian Catholic University from Zagreb. And now there's an individual debate, and we have one replica of the esteemed Uncle. [[Applause.]] Two, excuse me. ... No, no, first he's a fellow Uncle, then he's a colleague of Vučetic's. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] He didn't answer, okay, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Dear Representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135131	Thank you. Dear colleague, you spoke of terrorism, however, should consider that we are really fighting terrorism with this law. I think the law should be improved with the Register of Real Owners because the terrorism we are facing today is different from that of the former. Let's say... When he writes, he says we're in IV right now. svt. The war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I. s. The war concluded the supremacy of Europe and ended colonialism. II. svt. The war ended with Nazism and interrupted him, III. svt. The war was a cold war that ended Communism and this IV: The war is a fractal war, a war at station level, at the level of the entire globalised world, you can't fight by sending police or soldiers to the border because this war is really happening in this one virtual space and in the area of finance, it's really fractal, and this law contributes to our facing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135132	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135133	My colleague, I agree. We can't fight, but I'll only say by sending the police and the military to the border, and really this law will partially help solve the problem, but I can't ignore this part of the story that I've told. So, aside from money laundering and terrorist financing, we also have to physically protect our space because without cops on the border, cops on the street, there is no help today. So look only in Germany now for the Christmas fair, every Christmas fair was surrounded by concrete blocks, guarded by machine guns for fear of terrorism. And if it hadn't been for such great security, I'm sure that, I'm sure, I think there'd probably be some kind of blast, it didn't just happen because of the police, so it needs to work on more levels and through this law, but also through the work on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135134	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, after an individual debate, I was offered some debates here with all due respect to my colleagues and I support that everyone here can express their opinion, but unfortunately I don't think that many who have spoken about this topic today have read the law because if they had read the law and later I'm going to quote some things, then we should say that in the article and this should fix it, and that there is no possible failure from something else. And as we are discussing in this Croatian Parliament, that by chance the International Centre for Returns is monitoring and assessing how which country prevents money laundering has found that Croatia is among the 10 worst countries, here today would be a lot of noise in the assembly about it. Then it would be taken as a relevant report. However, colleagues and colleagues liked it or not, and the International Fund Reimbursement Centre is a metric that assesses with MONEYVAL the work of national offices to prevent money laundering. So definitely according to their views, Croatia is among the 10 countries with the least danger of money laundering. Also, there's a credit rating agency on Friday... Finally after 6 years of Croatian credit rating raised from garbage to investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, we have heard little talk about it, but when a credit rating agency comes to talk to one country to assess not only the basis of macroeconomic indicators, fiscal indicators, an evaluation of EUROSTAT's economic situation in an EU member country, it talks with all public, political and economic life actors and makes decisions on this basis. Well, colleagues and colleagues, do you think, among other things, that this assessment in a certain way doesn't affect credit ratings? And you know what an increase in credit rating means tomorrow for all of us? means basically cheaper capital and lower interest rates for all of us. In one sentence it can be drawn up, I could elaborate it now I don't know how much. However, what is a fundamental question that we must ask ourselves in this assembly when we talk about this subject, and we are not talking about the basis of the law but the basis of certain impressions, are we in the opening explanation of the motionor, i.e. The Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have read what it is to prevent money laundering. And in order not to accidentally miss something, I will quote it and say: "The system for preventing money laundering and financing terrorism in the Republic of Croatia is not only in the jurisdiction of one institution but is a system in which the roles of each shareholder and their mutual interaction and cooperation are legally defined and is made up of the body of prevention, bonds, banks and others, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Financial Intelligence Unit of the Republic of Croatia, the Supervisory Office of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax, Customs and Financial Inspectorate, the CNB, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the Criminal Persecution Authority, the Police, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. The key element of the preventive system for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing are the following measures implemented by banks and other bonds." And I would like to stress this in particular, so the customer's depth analysis by applying standards to meet your client, identifying and verifying the identity of the party and identifying and verifying the identity of the party's real owner and others. Report of suspected transactions to the office for, prior to carrying out a suspicious transaction, regardless of the amount if there are grounds for suspicion of money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as specific measures and powers of the office for issuing orders to banks and other bonds for temporary suspension of the conduct of suspected transactions within a maximum period of 120 hours. My colleagues and colleagues, if we had read this text, if we had read this law, then our debate would have gone in a completely different direction. What I want to highlight here in particular, one of the greatest quality of all these years of work of the State Office to prevent money laundering is that you in no media, you couldn't read one piece of information anywhere, which unfortunately for some other institutions you can't tell. And that's one great quality, and whenever it comes to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering or any other way, it just needs to be pointed out. I've read the stakeholders who participate in all these processes, and do you think that someone who ultimately represents or gives a warrant for an investigation, that he himself did this job, that not all of these institutions that I've counted were involved in this business. And this proves something else, that Croatia is becoming a regulated state. We were talking today about processes that were 20 and something else, 25 or 30 years ago, we're talking about processes that are today. Well, you saw, among other things, this story about the shipyard that the budgetary surveillance went away, determined what its obligation was under the Budget Law, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, that anyone who receives the budget must report to the competent ministry at the end of the year, in fact, the Resort Ministry, and the Ministry of Finance in which the money was spent. So the budget supervision of the finance ministry was in those shipyards, but no one's going to say it today. It would be very interesting to see the explanation under which someone gave the guarantee in 2014, for the first time since 4 years. But that's why I read here in the light of this law by the motion of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia who are stakeholders in the process because the office itself can't work, it's a very important role of banks. Well, you've seen your colleagues and colleagues when you come to do some work at the bank you or one of your family members have to fill out what form you have to fill out. That's exactly why, and I read you that the bank is familiar with the client and that it can warn the office if certain transactions happen that are suspicious. Here you can even have valuable transactions between individual legal entities. Is it legitimate or not, it's determined by some other bodies? Al, we need to know what it means to stop money laundering, we're talking about the law today. And that's why I said I didn't think to read someone not to talk about something else because eventually when you look at it, it's part of the job. But talk about things 20 years ago when this office practically didn't exist because it was in the bandages today when this office is classified among the 10 most qualitative and practical Republic. And do you know what it means for potential investors, among other things, they look at it as a form of legal certainty. And you only have three factors when someone wants to invest in a country. In view of legal certainty, he sees his profits and political stability. Legal security comes first. Because someone who invests their money wants legal certainty that by law and who has invested that they have certain rights and that these certain rules must be followed. So we have to take care of that when we're talking some things, but I'm telling you everything hurts when I hear this, that we're not going to admit something to ourselves. But I'm saying that today's story in this assembly would have been if we were among the worst ten. So just remember the competitiveness assessment, so there's this meeting buzzing about it, and here you have shows what it is, it's not good, and why it's not good, because someone in Croatia rated well, and that someone has nothing to do with the HDZ, or the Living Wall, or anyone. It is an international institution that, according to its rules, assesses how someone works and that international institution and that we understand each other and that the story of terrorist financing is not within the law for 30 years, it is in law after major terrorist actions then started to follow where and how the money is going. So no one would give you a good grade if they didn't treat you like one, someone who had a system that could monitor certain financial transactions. And that's why I called for a hearing. You should be criticised, but spit on your country, on your institutions, where those who judge you very strictly say you're good, it's just not good. Well, I don't know who's doing business in this country, so I was an opposition agent, but when someone did something good, the government did something good, I publicly said it on behalf of my club or individually. I'm all that happens in Croatia well I'm happy, everything that happens bad I'm unhappy. Every shift of Croatia forward is a big deal and a big progress for all of us, regardless of whether or not anyone is against it. Also every step back is unfortunately a pity for all of us. And so, colleagues and colleagues, read paragraphs 40 and 3 on page 40, and then the law will become clear to you as well as to who the stakeholders are to prevent money laundering, and the law says what the office is doing, and also 8 important things about them, unfortunately, I don't have time to talk about what this law has changed to make this office even more quality and even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135136	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135137	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Schucker, so you're saying that the laws have the right to discuss only lawyers, it's not exactly a convincing logic because this is not the Faculty of Law, so this is the political arena, and this is where political decisions are made primarily. You say you need to discuss articles, you have to deal with these certain items, but in fact there is a broader dimension, and that broader dimension is that above this body and all other bodies of the state administration there is therefore a policy, there is a government and that dimension should be covered. So I'm the work of this body as successful, as unsuccessful, etc., it won't be successful as long as it exists, so the weak state government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135138	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135139	I like to debate with you, I'm sorry you didn't listen to me, I'm sorry you didn't listen to me. If you'd listened to me then you'd never hear what you just said, you wanted me to say it, but I'll never say it in my life. I said that I was giving everyone the right to discuss the subject in my own way, but that we could read some of the things that we think would be good and bad from the law in certain provisions of the law. And I will repeat what I have said several times, I am proud and happy that the Croatian state and this office are among the 10 offices and countries of them 150 or how many are already 129, where money laundering is the least possible. I am happy about this, and also without intending to give anyone a clue, my colleague Bunjac, I have read the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 on page 40, which clearly defines who the stakeholders are in the process of preventing money and financing international terrorism, without the intention of doing anything to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135140	The next is the replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135141	Dear fellow Shuker, it is true what you said you have never disputed that everyone has the right to say their opinions, but it would also be good for colleagues from the opposition to look really and objective when we say that the security of the state whether it refers to investments and everything else, or physical security actually guarantees also this prosperity of the state, and it would also be good to look at the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, which was updated 25.3. on the CNB sites where it can be seen that long-term borrowing of all agencies is positive here Fitch rating positive therefore for both domestic and foreign currency, Moodys is stable, Standard & Poor's is also stable. So that's something that guarantees everyone's safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135142	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135143	Yes, my fellow Peric, here's to HEP if I'm not mistaken for a high credit rating. This means that if HEP goes into some kind of investment, it will be able to pay cheaperly that it will ultimately cost fewer Croatian citizens, i.e. electricity consumers. Here's what I'm going to say, I don't think I'm going to break this data protection law, which is that this institution is the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is practically running the Remorker process. They never boasted about it, but it's simply necessary to say today after these discussions. Have you heard what one colleague was saying about shipyards, today finally the Ministry of Finance has come up with the fact that budget supervision has done its job and has given the competent authorities, therefore to the DORH and USKOK, information that the money has not been spent in accordance with the Budget Law. Therefore, when we start to discuss this way, then we will become aware of why international institutions include us among the 10 countries with the lowest risk of money laundering.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135144	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club, the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135145	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I had the need to say in the final name of the club a few words that seem important to me, especially after the debate between my colleagues Shuker, who are important to Croatian citizens. Because we are finally passing every law for the sake of Croatian citizens and as far as the security of today's Croatian citizens and all that they are subject to in terms of the forms that Mr. Shucker has mentioned that must be fulfilled, so that Croatian citizens do not take this law as once again a press that goes towards them. In its essence, this law is a very complex law, of course, it should be supported because it is again in line with the directives, a series, a series of these packages, the EU Directives. And there are two things that are important to say. First of all, not every financial transaction that falls within the area of economic crime is also not a subject to be dealt with by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and other matters when we talk about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it must not in any way come into the situation that they believe this law is directed against them. In other words, to say it in plain dictionary, if a citizen has a certain savings and wants to put it into his bank account does not mean that he will immediately come under this press of any office, any other body, but that he can do it freely. Because as we have seen from this debate, what is most important in the office must be supplied and there must indeed be professional people who can identify certain suspicious transactions especially in the area of terrorist financing, because we must not forget that certain tourist acts or acts have recently taken place with funds that are not exactly generous, so let's say a tourist attack can cost $10,000, which is not a large amount, does not mean that you can now, by a limit, only determine which are suspicious transactions, but it really takes a deep monitoring to see which transactions are subject to such frameworks. And there is, of course, a further emphasis should be placed on the bodies of prevention which are also bonds of the measures of this Act, the supervisory authorities and the law enforcement bodies. What I have as a grudge, as a citizen, and as a representative, primarily concerns the body of supervision, I think that the supervisory bodies, here first and foremost the HANFA, and the Croatian National Bank, have not used enough of the tools they have, so we have these, these large, large, major failures in the area of economic crime that are now mentioned in the context of this debate, or if they do not belong here, but much better, this, more concrete control of these financial transactions. Then we wouldn't get into a situation where citizens rightly get angry because, I mentioned here, once I've been inspecting the non-accounting for 50 lipa is treated as a submersible financial, financial system of the Republic of Croatia, even more constitutional order, while on the other hand we have millions that go through our hands, then it's not sanctioned, and then people have this impression. As far as the law itself is concerned, it should certainly be supported, and the Office should wish that it works even better and better, because it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135146	Thank you very much. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point, and we're going to vote on it when it comes to terms. We will continue to work tomorrow, Thursday, 28 March, at 9:30, with, and will be the first point of the Proposal for a Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, first reading, P.Z.E. 602. Have a good afternoon. Session adjourned at 3:26 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135147	We are now moving to amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. He is also a proponent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Nikola Grmoja, representative Robert Podolnjak, the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the Power. With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zdravko Zrinasic, who will be shown about the amendments. The first amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is on Article 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, this amendment is not accepted. The provisions of Article 22 of the final draft law are fully in line with Article 1 point 15c. i d. 5 of EU Directive 2018/843 which provides for the possibility of making available to the public the data on the conditions of registration of authorised natural and legal persons via the Internet and the payment of compensation. The fee shall not exceed the administrative costs of the information put at its disposal, including maintenance costs and further development of the register. As already pointed out during the debate, above all in the second reading, in relation to this point, point 34 of the preamble 5 of the Directive, it is stated that this requires a fair balance of particular interest between the public to prevent money laundering and to finance terrorism and fundamental rights of respondents related above all to the protection of personal data and the integrity of respondents themselves. It should also be borne in mind the Law on the Infringement of the General Data Protection Regulation, which was in force from 25.5 last year. Furthermore, preamble 5 of the Directive regulates and states that the set of data to be made available to the public should be limited, clear and comprehensively defined and be general in order to minimise potential damage to real owners as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135149	Thank you very much, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Mr. Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135150	Thank you very much. I think the register of real company owners must be publicly opened without having to pay for it financially. Why would someone pay to see the company's real owners register? It must be publicly published, transparently published, and I don't see why and what the intention of this is that anyone with money can see that register. Let it be made public, let it be transparently published by the owners of the company, the register of real owners of the company. Is there enough of what's hidden behind these real owners of the company, there's plenty of money drawn from the real owners of the companies that are hidden. It's, we all know, in the Republic of Croatia huge money was drawn to companies where the real owners didn't know each other. And now, by this law, you only limit who pays to see that register. What's that for? Which is why the European Commission also warns. The European Commission has warned before that a register of real owners was opened, which was voted by parliamentary deputies who were then MEPs from HDZ, such as here, who are not present with a former Europarliamentary, a former minister. And here when we asked for that register to be opened last year, the HDZ was against it at the time, while Ivo Stier was in Brussels for, here when he came for counsel, he was against it. You have no right to ask someone to pay for who wants to see this real register of the real register of owners because there is a problem with the robbery of Croatian withdrawals of money, here are the most important real owners. We ask you to accept this amendment because every citizen has the right to see the real owners of the company.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135151	Thank you. You're asking for a vote, aren't you? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Bull: Looking for a vote.]] Identical representatives, identical amendment pardons, have MPs of Nikola Grumo, gone and I mean, you have to show yourself again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135152	If you allow it only to repeat, the amendment shall not be accepted identically and would repeat the provision laid down in point 15c of Article 5 of Directive No 1 and d of Article 1 which prescribe the possibility of placing the data from the register at the disposal of the public to a Member State subject to authorisation, via the Internet and the payment of compensation. The fee shall not exceed the administrative costs of the information placed at the disposal of the maintenance and further development of the register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135153	Thank you, too. Nikola Grumoja's representative is gone, so he will vote on this amendment and the 3rd amendment of MP Robert Podlonjak, also identical content He's not here either. [[Invader Zrinašić: Unacceptable.]] It's not accepted for the same reasons, is it? Thank you. [[Zrinašić: That's right, that's right.]] Moving to Amendment No. 4 Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists on Article 24, please, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135154	The amendment is not accepted, it is similar to the content where it is proposed not to pay compensation along with other bonds including banks, such an amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135155	Noting that the next two amendments to Nikola Grumoja and Robert Podlnjak's representatives are absolutely identical, I give the word to the representatives of the Most Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we wanted to kind of abolish this amendment by further making it difficult to see the Register of the right owners of the company, I think it must be without restriction and without compensation, or that the Secretary of Finance should not be subject to specific rules governing access restrictions and as well as possible compensation. Why does it matter? I have repeatedly warned in this House that although this law is related to some other matters, it is also important for the next election campaigns that follow us, that citizens must know which company owners are precisely because certain companies will finance certain political parties. We also stressed that this law should come into force as soon as possible, we are aware that for this euro parliamentary elections it will not be but for the presidents should be so that we want it to be transparent, in addition to that it is an EU directive, so I do not understand why this law is being delayed, so practically a year, so we want everything to be public, transparent, followed by an election campaign, followed by elections, and we want to know who is financing certain political parties and we want to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135157	Thank you very much. This amendment, as well as the amendment of MPs Nikola Grumoja and representatives of Robert Podlnjak who are not present, will be voted. Amendment No. 7 Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists on Article 24, please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135158	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes erasing the word "no risk exchange". The provision laid down in the final proposal for a law to be deleted by the amendment has been explicitly adopted in Article 1(1) of point 15 g and 5 of the Directive which, among other things, requires that in cases where access to data on real property would expose the real owner, not exchange of risk, the risk of fraud, kidnapping, blackmail, extortion, abuse, violence or intimidation, or if the owner is a minor or, for other reasons, particularly, incapacitated, Member States may provide for exemptions from such access to any information or part of the information on real property on an individual basis. So the formulation of no risk exchange has been taken over from the 5th Directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135159	Mr. Bull, I suppose, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135160	Thank you very much. The register of real owners will remain closed if words are not deleted in this article, at disproportionate risk. So who's going to assess that risk? If someone wants insight into the real owners of the company and, above all, those who are secrets and who are the real rulers of Croatia, and we don't know them, they may be at this disproportionate risk. Who's going to define? So you didn't even have to open it, you opened this pro form because that's what the European Parliament is asking by its directive, the European Commission, and now we should adopt this act and in fact this article if it remains that you can't see who owns the company, so we won't be able to because of what this person is at disproportionate risk, that owner. And who's at disproportionate risk? What did the banks sell? These what created the energy system? These things that the owners are real and basically we'll never know if this doesn't go away about the disproportionate risk. So we've opened something essentially and we've put it all at risk to see who the real owners of the company are. So why don't we see the real owners of the company all? So Croatia was robbed, where is this money? It is at this disproportionate risk that the money, which is financed by campaigns, which control the parties, rule neither the state nor the prime minister nor anyone, but they rule because they are the ones who pay the campaign. And that's why he would ask his colleagues, MPs, I know that there is no business representative who will vote here to change the Rules of Procedure that this should happen before the vote itself, we have to take this down because of our people, because of our public, because of everything that's been going on in the privatisation. Well, someone pulled the money out and now he's at disproportionate risk. Oh, look. ... Caćina Croatia, I demand a vote, thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135161	Thank you very much. So it's about Amendment No. 7th, on Amendment No. 8th Agent Nikola Grmoy and Amendment No. The 9th representative of Robert Podnjak, who is not here, will vote, will vote. Amendment number 10. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club and the same are amendments, and I'm sorry, yes, yes, that's the only one, the next one has the same... So the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club on article 25. Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135162	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, the amendment essentially proposes to add information on the OIB, the provision in question of a final draft law, is gradually in line with point 1 of point 15 of the fifth Directive and the public is allowed access to information on the name and last name of the real owner of the country of residence, the month and year of birth to citizenship, and the nature and scope of real ownership. In this respect, in point 34 of the Preamble 5 of the Directive, it is stated that the set of data, which will be made available to the public, should be limited, clearly comprehensively defined and should be general in nature, in order to minimise potential damage to real owners as much as possible. It is also said that it is necessary to seek a fair balance, especially between the public interest, to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism and fundamental rights from... related above all to the protection of personal data and the integrity of the subjects themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the protection of personal data, since May of last year, the Law implementing the General Data Protection Regulation is in force, concerning the view of the OIB itself, according to the Law on the Personal Identification Number. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, shall, under official duty, designate and assign the OIB, and shall ensure, upon request by the user, the availability of OIB data subject to the legal obligation to comply with the personal data protection rules. As regards OIB users, they are essentially state bodies, local and regional units, i.e. regional self-government and legal persons with public authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135163	Thank you very much. In the name of the Living Wall, Mr. Bunzac will defend the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135164	Thank you very much, sir... So I can't accept your argument, for reasons, which then, by that logic, I could and I could... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] OIB if you think that the name, last name, my address and years of birth are enough to identify. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then get rid of the OIBs for all of us, so I don't see any reason for me to have one. So for me, that is, all Croatian citizens are subject to one rule, and for some others, it is worth the benefit of another rule. So, we disagree with your argument and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135165	All right, they'll vote. Now we have identical amendments from 11-13 Clubs of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, first of all, here you go, Mr... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135166	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. As regards Article 72(1), as the provisions of the law enter into force on 1 January 2020, the time limit for the harmonisation of the sublegislative acts of the competent authorities with the provisions of the compensation no later than 3 months from the date of entry into force of the law, as it is not possible to adopt sublaws before the entry into force of the laws themselves. In this respect, it is prescribed that in the transitional period, i.e. until the date of entry into force of the new sublegal acts, they shall remain in force and shall apply the applicable sublegal acts in part, which, of course, are not contrary to this new law. As regards Article 72(3), this is a matter of provisions which have been introduced into the law as above a standard which is not prescribed in the 5th Directive itself. Why? In order to further improve the supervisory position, the CNB has proposed additional measures in the future of banks dealing with all issues of the circumstances, essential for the exercise of supervision, over the implementation of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. That deadline is prescribed, for reasons, that banks, reports and information will, in conjunction with that, deliver by electronic means, requiring the necessary adjustments and time to make new, application solutions, which include the safety component.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135167	Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135168	We've been before, Club Mosta five months ago. asked to be brought in, to open up the register, the real owners of the company. Then it wasn't accepted and now you see,... to open it already now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that for the euro parliamentary elections, if you had listened to us then you would have known about the Europarliamentary elections, the register of real owners would have been open. We'd know who's funding your campaign, how you're funding your campaign, and now you say you can't do it this year, but we're only going to do it next year, March 31st, 2020, and on the recommendation of the CNB. If the CNB sees now you've protected, they don't need their OIB real owners, they don't need, so those at some risk, we're not going to publish them, and you're not saying who's going to watch that risk, who's going to determine who's at that risk, and now you're still delaying them for a year, to conduct presidential elections under this law, real ones, that we don't know who the real owners are. So basically you're closing, you're even tighter through the CNB tightening that register, not to know at all who the real owners of the company are. And the money was drawn from Croatia and they are in the real owners of these companies. You protect them while people who have small companies or natural and legal persons who are for violations of them should, of course, be held under the law, and these need this law, where they are opened, as you are allegedly opening a register of real owners of the company, in this way you are closing them with the help of the CNB which is the least Croatian and least popular. And she will now recommend to you in what way we will behave, to make the real owners give a year to hide the real owners. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much..]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135169	You're asking for a vote, aren't you? You're looking for a vote, Mr. Bully. Yeah. [[Intruder Bulj: Obligatory.]] Okay, so the amendments to Articles 72 and 11. 12 MPs of Nikola Grumoja, the same and representative of Robert Podlonjak, number 13, who cannot defend the amendments because they are not here, will vote today. 14. The legislative committee, in Article 75, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135170	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted for legal certainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135171	Thank you very much. It becomes part of the bill that goes, the final bill. From 15th to 17th, we have the same representatives of this same amendment again, I apologize. The club, the first is the 15th, yes, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, all three are on Article 75.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135172	The amendment is not accepted by the final draft law first in line with the 5 Directive, which also provides for different arrangements for the entry into force of certain provisions of the Directive. From 10 January 2020 on the register of real owners whose charge is scheduled by the end of this year, and by the end of the period and 10 September 2020 respectively, relating to the single account register. So these deadlines are exclusively aligned with the entry into force of the 5 Directive and its provisions. Furthermore, the final draft law is also in line with Manival recommendations adopted at the 56th plenary session of July 2018. 5 The Directives of certain provisions of the final draft law shall enter into force on 8 days from the day of their publication in the National Journal and shall enter into force on 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135173	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135174	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, so we believe that this law on access to data from the register should enter into force 8 days after publication in the National Journal, not as proposed on 1 January 2020. We feel the need to pass this law as soon as possible. It is interesting that when it comes to transparency and therefore to some law that will help some transparency to determine who is the real owner of the company to delay the adoption of the law, when it comes to financing the political parties that we had recently held here in a meeting of 38 hours of debate, then the law came into force immediately on the day published in the National Journal. So, we believe that this is not good, that it sends a bad message to the Croatian public, so when it comes to money laws are passed immediately on the same day, almost the press in the National Journal of the same day comes into effect, and when it comes to transparency, then we delay and demand a vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135175	Thank you very much, Mr. Sladolev. So about Amendment number 15 on the amendment of the 16th legislator, Nikola Grumoje's representative, and the number of 17 MPs Robert Dolnjak, the same, will be voted. And we're done with the amendments to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-27-0.u135176	Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, second reading, P.Z.E., No. 556, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Nikola Grmoja, representative Robert Podolnjak, the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means, the amendment statement was carried out earlier at the session. Before moving to the vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept, I would like to stress that since the club was represented by the representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Nikola Grmoja and Robert Podolnjak submitted amendments to the identical content, in accordance with Article 202(7). Rules of Procedure, we will vote on amendments in a way that we will vote on only one of them and that on the club's amendment. So let's now go to the vote on amendments, so these are amendments from 1 to 3 of the Most Independent Lists Representatives Clubs, MPs Nikola Grumoja and Agent Robert Podlenjak, the government doesn't accept them, so I ask that we vote. The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Now let's vote on amendments from 4 to 6, and also the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, MP Nikola Grmoja and representative Robert Podolnjak, the government does not accept them. The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. We now go to amendments 7 to 9, same club of representatives and the same representatives, the government does not accept them, please let's vote. The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. So let's go to Amendment No. 10 Advocacy Clubs of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the government does not accept it, and we must vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to the amendment, or amendments 11 to 13, that is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Representatives of Nikola Grmoja and Representative Robert Podolnjak, the government does not accept them. I'm saying they didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment number 14. The Legislative Committee has been adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. And amendments 15 to 17 again, the club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists, MP Nikola Grmoja and representative Robert Podolnjak, the government does not accept them, and we must vote. I find that the amendments have not received the required number of votes. And we are now going to vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 96 for and 4 votes against, have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists. Good morning, respected MPs, respected MPs, before we begin our work I would like to welcome the students and students of Ban Josip Jelačić High School from Zapresic. Welcome! ... The first point today is: - Proposal for a Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, first reading, P.Z.E. 602. [[Applause]] The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is Honored Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, please.
