ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164656	Thank you very much. The esteemed MPs and MPs are therefore before you to amend and supplement the Law on Turning in First Reading. The reason why we propose these amendments and the additions of the Law on crafts is therefore to improve the education system for tied crafts, and therefore to those that are based on teaching. Why do we propose that? We know that just teaching or practical work makes it easier to adopt knowledge and skills in vocational education, and, of course, this results in better employability of students or young people who go through such a system of education. The programmes that we are talking about therefore ensure a high representation of practical teaching in the practice of school and in the economy, and this is exactly how the conditions are created for the acquisition of skills needed for independent work in the profession and for the adoption of entrepreneurial skills which are essential of course for working in the economic sector. Only learning takes 3 years, the total number of hours of teaching is, of course, different depending on what interest we are talking about, but all programmes necessarily include 2600 hours of practical teaching, which is then partly spent on an economic operator or craftsman. After the teaching process has been completed, therefore, according to the current system, the assistant exam proves its outward competence and achieves an external evaluation of education based on a practical watch before the Commission. So other than the teachers of the profession, craftsmen, or masters, are involved in this commission. I would just briefly like to refer to the government's 2016 work programme. In 2020, which is, of course, envisaged for its objective, or in the Government's programme, the introduction of a dual vocational education model, whereby employers become partners with educational institutions and together decide on the programme and enrolment quotas for students. This model of dual education, that is, what we propose through the current amendments and the additions of the laws, is based precisely on examples of best practices of countries that we think do well, countries that are related to us and similar to the system and according to the system, good day, vocational education, so I'm talking about Germany, I'm talking about Austria, Switzerland, so we see these models as relevant and successful, but we also want to keep what proved to be good and traditional elements of our own vocational education that have been assessed and assessed as successful. Therefore, taking into account all of this, the objectives contained in the Government's work programme and the practice so far acquired in terms of positive results, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on crafts which are contained in this first reading include the following. First, it is the conduct of an assistant exam which is renamed to the scientific exam by these proposals and these amendments and amendments to the law, so the assistant exam becomes a scientific exam and moves into the jurisdiction of the Croatian Chamber of crafts not the way it was in 2013. Furthermore, changes are also proposed to redefine the concept of scientific examination in such a way that it becomes part of the final work and consists of a work trial that examines the practical and theoretical expertise and skills needed to carry out a particular craft before a professional commission. As evidence of the passed scientific exam and acquired competences, professional competences and acquired work experience will be provided with an addendum to the evidence of apprenticeship. Thirdly, it is proposed to prescribe the quality assurance of teaching by forming an independent body consisting of key stakeholders in this process from the Ministry of Defence, from the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Agency responsible for vocational education. This body, which I am talking about, would have the task of professional supervision of the quality of teaching in craftsmen and legal persons, and precisely in order to prevent any problems in the implementation of teaching and to provide advisory assistance to craftsmen in the implementation of the process itself or in the performance of teaching. Fourthly, in order to ensure the maximum impact of the economy itself on the compliance of qualifications, professional qualifications with the needs of the economy and the labour market, we propose that the professional curricula to acquire qualifications and the system of tied crafts develop a ministry that is responsible for crafts. Furthermore, it is also proposed to regulate the teaching of adults, then to prescribe the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts for the adoption of mentor education programmes in the economy, and for whose implementation would be the competent Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. In addition, a proper deregulation of tied crafts for which a special condition is prescribed as a master's test is also planned. Namely, persons with adequate secondary vocational education shall be allowed to register a tied craft for whose performance is required as a condition of a master's examination and without having to pass the same examination if those persons have 15 years of working experience on these jobs. In this way we want to liberalise market access, properly evaluate acquired work experience and, of course, stimulate the creation of new crafts. In addition to these key amendments, in the remaining part of the law, we plan to abolish the price of the craftsman, then abolish the price of the authorisation to carry out domestic work and secondary occupation, abolish the Regulation on activities that can be carried out as a seasonal trade. In addition, the total duration of the seasonal operation of the crafts is extended from 6 to 9 months. The obligation to attach the craftsman shall be abolished when changing the seat of the craftsmen and at the time of the checkout of the crafts. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council with regard to the application of this Regulation and of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the application of this Regulation. The HOK Peace Centre for which it is here is established, and I must say that it is already working so that these changes formalise the existing situation and set a deadline for the vote to be called for members of the Single Chamber System at the HOC. These are briefly the changes and additions that we propose with this text. Finally, I would just like to point out once again that teaching is indeed an effective form of learning based on a work that certainly facilitates entering the world of work for all students who are going through this system and therefore we believe that the need to take appropriate action, measures and, of course, the amendments we propose to this law to improve the same system. I would like to thank you in advance for the support you will give these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164657	Let's go with the replicas, we've got six of them. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164658	So I have one comment, so generally about the competition for craftsmen, entrepreneurs, so the tenders are not published according to the published plan of publication. When you announce the competition, the processing itself lasts for over a year until the contract is signed. When funds are to be recovered to the entrepreneur, another half year is to be allowed. We all know how you've shared money by the fastest finger model, and I'm asking the question, what competitions can be called by small, micro-enterprises for competitiveness, so there's no contests through which we could buy machines and equipment. And also, when and if you're going to publish a new e-Impuls for small entrepreneurs where there were 806 million kunas of reported investment and 2 099 applications. So there's an interest in investment through which we can develop competitiveness, but unfortunately, here's the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164659	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164660	Thank you very much for your question, which is certainly much broader than the amendments and additions proposed by this law, or not just about the trades. The Ministry is constantly working to ensure the funds for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and what I must say is that, in fact, within the framework of the operational programmes for competitiveness and cohesion in the section run by the ministry, this most effective part of the implementation of the operational programme has been signed in a framework of 3.5, i.e. about 3.5 decisions on corporate financing and, therefore, the results in that part are, of course, good compared to other priority... So I expect that through changes to the operational programme, additional funds are actually allocated to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the numbers speak for themselves, one part of it applies on... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164661	Time, you have one minute to answer. Now it's up to your colleague, Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164662	Thank you, Mr. President. I have one question of this kind, therefore, one objection to this law, and I noticed that in law there are no future professions, so the whole law only applies to traditional trades, so it didn't recognize anything that's going to happen in the future. I think that we, that the labour market is changing, that in 3.4 years some trades will be extinct, that there will be new trades and the biggest grudge in this law, which has not recognised the future, therefore, of this labour market and has not actually included some occupations, some trades that are just about to take place on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164663	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164664	Thank you very much for asking. It is certainly a question that is legitimate, not only when it comes to crafts but also to any other profession. In fact, it is difficult sometimes to predict exactly the challenge of the education system, predicting what will happen, or what occupations it will take for 20 or 50 years, but what I just want to say about the Law of Turning, so it does not focus on individual occupations, or excludes anything that could prove necessary in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164665	Third replica, colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164666	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Secretary of State. Given that you write in the interpretation of the law that the amendments to the law will allow for a better relationship with the economy, do you think that the Professional Education Agency has no contact with the economy at all and does not follow at all trends or what is happening and that we need the Professional Education Agency at all when it is qualified in your request. And on the other hand, I'd like to inform you and you can check it in the ministry that system until 2013 the chamber was very sloppy. So it's only about money, who's going to collect 2,600 kuna fees for these exams and of course it's in the interest of Mr. Ranogajc, the HDZ candidate in the Krapina-Zagorje County elections to take it and thus have it. I'm so interested in whether or not we need the Professional Education Agency at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164667	Thank you, thank you, colleague Maras. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164668	Thank you very much. The Agency for Professional Education has a lot more jurisdiction than what we're talking about today. But I'd say it certainly takes the agency and certainly we'll include it in what's going to be done here by a new model of learning. Because, as I pointed out, the body responsible for monitoring the implementation, i.e. the quality of the implementation of the training system itself, includes the participation of the agency itself. On the matter of compensation, I think that somehow this part may not need to be commented because the system, of course, through this is actually, as I have initially explained and there are certain administrative... And to the savings, so I just feel like the intensity is going in the opposite direction of what you've pointed out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164669	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164670	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, this law provides for a reduction in the cost of issuing a craftsman which I certainly welcome other administrative costs. Also, this study, which will now be conducted by the craft chamber instead of the agency, leads to the strengthening of the crafts chamber, which I also welcome. But from all of this, I can conclude that you are ultimately going towards abolishing the chamber's contribution, because the craftsman's chamber will now have an additional source of income, that it will have its strength, and therefore it will be more interesting for craftsmen than some who today say that with the crafts chamber they have no contact, that they have no use for it and that this reinforcement will change it and that you will introduce membership on a voluntary basis so that craftsmen themselves will be able to take advantage of the chamber to choose it accordingly. And I'm interested in your opinion whether you believe that the management function of the craft chamber should be depoliticalized?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164671	Here's the door.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164672	Thank you very much. With regard to the operation of the Chamber of Memberships, it is not the subject of these amendments and additions so that I could not comment on it at this time. I would just like to point out that the assistant exam, or scientific exam, is that through these changes and additions we propose it does not actually carry expenses, so it is free and of course we can discuss membership issues in some other format. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164673	Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164674	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, my replica is of principle. So as far as external evaluations are concerned, I welcome that. As for the control of the very teaching that the agency is involved in, and I welcome it, but let me, however, I don't understand why the Ministry of Economy is going to make it, let's call it a broader curricula or curricula as you like to say it today. Because I am one of those people who believes that the market only has regulation but the market must not be sacred, the market must not be that that will shape future societies, the market is not that that determines what the Republic of Croatia will need in the future. Because we don't educate our craftsmen just to serve what the market needs right now. Well, I guess we're teaching them something to run themselves, to change this society too. In that sense, my question, what did the Minister, the Minister of Education, say to this idea of yours? Did she stand up to that? I find it incomprehensible that she did not oppose it and I hope that in the future, very soon this law will change again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164675	Thank you. The proposal was agreed at government level, so the Ministry of Science is in agreement with what the government is proposing to the parliament. So I do not see the disputed involvement of the Ministry responsible for the economy and which, from the aspect of and crafts and entrepreneurship, monitors trends in the labour market in terms of formulating the programme in order to make the education system more adequate for the needs of the labour market. Many contacts with economies and what we hear almost daily contributes to the lack of quality and qualified labour in the market, and these are through these changes, in fact, we want to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164676	And the last replica of my colleague Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164677	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, in principle we agree with the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Trade and I believe everything in order to address the needs of not only our crafts but I would say wider economies. Today we are faced with a situation on the labour market that our businessmen and craftsmen simply cannot find qualified adequate labour. And I think the government's on a programme that has a huge delay between 2016 and 2020. In order to solve these problems, first of all, stronger cross-sectoral cooperation between your ministry, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour should be, and that in these procedures, especially with regard to mentor education and education, you should be more flexible because it is in a way simply stopping faster and better quality insurance of enough quality workforce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164678	Here's your answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164679	Well, I can only say that I agree with the fact that, of course, inter-resorship cooperation needs to be strengthened, that's what we do through these amendments and additions. So we have continued cooperation with both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Science, which is responsible for the education system. And this is exactly what leads to stronger integration and stronger inter-resor cooperation. So thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164680	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of HDZ MPs and respected counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164681	Thank you very much. Dear President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Turning Act in the first reading of the HDZ Club will support because these solutions represent an important step towards more adequate evaluation of craft education, as well as adaptations of the entire sector to the current market circumstances. Thus, the applicable Law on crafts was adopted in 2013 and regulated fundamental issues of craftsmanship such as the concept and type of crafts, conditions for doing business in crafts, education and training for performing crafts, organisation, supervision and administrative measures. In the section relating to education for tied crafts, however, these solutions have proved to be restrictive and not appropriate. In such circumstances, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts have set out to amend and supplement the laws we are discussing today in order for the education system to be in line with the needs of the labour market. This proposal should improve the system of education for tied crafts carried out according to the model of learning based on skills for independent work, the adoption of entrepreneurial skills directly in the economy, and facilitate the transition to the world of work. After completion of the final work, a scientific examination will be carried out to directly verify and demonstrate competences and to achieve an external evaluation of education. This provides for a model of dual vocational education where employers become partners with educational institutions and together decide on the programme and the registration quotas. These changes are based on examples of best practices we already have in Germany, Austria, Switzerland. Furthermore, for the purpose of reducing the administrative burden of craftsmen and natural persons performing domestic work and disputed occupation, it is planned to abolish the price of the craft and the price of the authorisation to carry out domestic work and secondary occupation. In view of the needs of the market for seasonal activity, the need for the extension of the total seasonal performance of the crafts from 6 to 9 months and the abolition of the Regulation on activities that can be carried out as a seasonal trade has been demonstrated. In particular, depending on market trends as well as the personal selection of craftsmen, seasonal performance is considered not to be conditional on a list of activities. Currently in the Republic of Croatia we have a total of over 86,000 craftsmen, and everything is 7.567 h. 8.8 seasons. Especially with us in Dalmatia the hosts do not register for the seasonal performance of the crafts, even with registrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164682	Just a little colleague of Yurichev-Martinchev's. I'd like to ask you colleagues and colleagues if I once warned you to really stop. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164683	Especially with us in Dalmatia hosts do not apply to the seasonal performance of the crafts, those hosts who want to work both for Easter and before Easter and do the whole September and October precisely because they may pass more than 6 months, although registration to the entire year’s crafts is an additional burden, given that all contributions should then be paid and all obligations not only for themselves but also for employees. The abolition of the Regulation on activities that can be carried out as seasonal crafts has also been added to praise the moves welcomed by craftsmen from some other activities and occupations. For example. also in Dalmatia, there is a growing example or almost no settlement that has no ban on construction work during the summer months. In the beginning, the tourist communities were able to make a proposal with a ban on construction work for only two months, but recently those with a desire for the guest who came as I said about Easter or September also to have peace and not to listen to heavy machinery on construction land in the neighborhood to become more and more determined and propose a ban on construction works, but since Easter. This is because during these summer months, especially craftsmen cannot leave with their equipment and it is difficult to get new construction sites and in some other villages that are not on the coast and are not engaged in tourist activities, so that during those summer months when their village is registered and insisting that the labour ban must pay all the obligations. So here are the provisions, together with those relating to the external evaluation of education, for great commendation, and all craftsmen expressed themselves positively on this proposal. The assistant exam becomes a scientific exam and is part of the final work which consists of checking practical knowledge and skills in front of the expert commission in which teachers are included. When we talk about external evaluations just this, it means now more children who finish high school will not only take the final exam in front of their professor but it will also have to do so in front of a committee in which other than the professor is involved and the master, but not the one who was his mentor that we can have a real picture of how much that child knows. And it is also already known that this in law only a child will from the very beginning try to learn as much as possible and thus be more ready for the labour market. In this way, each student is planned to approach an assistant exam that has so far been attended by only 42% of those students who completed the third grade of high school in the professions of tied crafts. Also, for administrative dispensation of schools, the record of the Learning Treaty is transferred to the Croatian Chamber of crafts. In order to perform the teaching, the craft must have a licence and a licence now issued under this proposal of the law for a period of 7 years, of course, with appropriate human, spatial and material conditions. In order to ensure that the economy has a greater impact on registration policy and to adapt labour markets, the Minister responsible for crafts in co-operation with the HOC agrees on the plan of enrollment structure of students in programmes to acquire qualifications for tied crafts. Accordingly, professional curricula for the acquisition of craft professions will also create the ministries responsible for crafts, and thus surely that the child who graduates from high school will not be educated and trained for standing for the Employment Service but for the labour market and that the quotas will be higher, more in those directions and interests that we need. In addition, adequate and deregulation of tied crafts, namely, persons with adequate secondary education, are allowed to register tied crafts without having to pass a master's examination if they have at least 15 years of working experience on relevant jobs and thereby liberalise market access, adequately evaluates acquired work experience and stimulates the establishment of crafts. We know that up until now, despite the fact that the person had had a high school, not 15 but 20 or more years of work experience could not register for a particular tied craft but rather hired a person who had such status. All those newspapers, if we adopt them, leave enough time in 2 readings by the end of the year to prepare a new school year for a much more dynamic, more favourable and more adequate rule for young people who want to deal with craftsmanship and who are chronically lacking. All of these changes finally connect the economy with the education system for professional professions, which is to remind also part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, which provides for taking over examples of best practices from countries that have developed a dual system of vocational education based on which young people acquire the skills sought on the labour market and contribute directly to increasing the productivity and competitiveness of businesses. I am pleased to conclude that the HOC and the craftsmen themselves have greatly welcomed all these changes and additions. I see that when it comes to opposition and they agree that these changes and additions are good so that I expect this, that this bill be without a vote because there are over 86 000 active crafts in Croatia, make up almost 40% of all business entities in the Republic, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this government makes significant efforts right in the development of crafts. It should also be said, here, to point out that we have student scholarships financed from the state budget of 1500 kn/mm. In addition, mentors who will teach our children 80 percent of the salary, as well as when that child completes his vocational education, are also able to receive 70,000 kuna funds through the Employment Service to self-employed people. These amendments and additions to the HDZ Club law will be supported because they truly consider it an important step towards more adequate evaluation of craft education, as well as adjustments to the market and the situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164684	Thank you. We're going to another club of MPs that's IDS, PGS and RI, and it's up to you, dear colleague Emil Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164685	The Honorable President of HS, Your Honor. State secretary with co-workers. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The law that is ahead of us certainly brings some positive shifts such as strengthening the concept of dual education, administrative discharge of craftsmen and extending the total duration of the seasonal turnover from 6 to 9 months and what is right should be supported. But through this debate, we want to contribute to making more quality changes and supplementing laws, as well as nothing less important, sensitizing the public's own problems with vocational education and respect for professional professions. We in the IDS Club have consistently advocated that professional education in Croatia must be based on the fact that part of education in vocational professions is conducted in schools, and part of it by craftsmen and businessmen. This is exactly how vocational education is recognised in developed European countries, such as Germany or Austria. Also, we always advocate complete solutions that will be clear and enforceable in practice but the passed law may lead to confusion of students and parents, first of all in the implementation of the educational model itself. In fact, in vocational schools of 3 years in a valid single model of education, there is already a lot of practical teaching, students teach masters in the profession and are already partially prepared and introduced to work after completing their education. In conversations with the profession itself on the ground, we have received feedback that this model has proved quite satisfactory, and that in the management of such inadequately prepared dual education, it will lead to the confusion of parents and students because in practice this will be understood as the introduction of a parallel system. In other words, so-called dual education will be carried out only with a system of tied crafts carried out according to a unique model of education. We believe that in these three years since the government's programme has defined the objective of an education system that has been in line with the needs of the labour market, a whole single dual education system as it exists in the countries that are our role model. What I read in the media is that in the last school year, it started with a trial model, but only in four professions, a seller, a cosmetologist, a smoker, a glassmaker. With all due respect to these professions that are very necessary in society, we have much bigger problems with the craftsmen themselves, or masters in manufacturing activities. We simply colleagues and colleagues must understand that without a master craftsman as we once called a craftsman, we cannot do the economic development of the country. So it took three years just for a test model with four occupations of mostly service activities, and for three years we waited for the beginning of the creation of legal preconditions. If it continues at this rate, the question is when will start and the entire system be implemented. Let me just explain, the importance of the speed of implementation of programming measures and objectives, and the ability to adapt rapidly to changes in society and market, is best seen in developed countries which are constantly investing in education for professional professions as well as in creating modern and competitive education conditions and in continued cooperation with the economic sector. And to understand how serious this problem really is and how important professional education is with all of its above-mentioned investments and strategic considerations in these developed countries are also importing skilled labour, unfortunately one part of qualified workers in our country's professional professions. So let's not kid ourselves, we finally have to admit that our entire system of values, and not just the education system, we have to change from the ground up. Every healthy society appreciates work and profession and in such a system of values is a good master who knows his craft, especially appreciated in his community and society as a whole. For decades, we have felt that we should learn that we should not work later and not be able to transfer that assembly into our heads, even now that we see that a quality ceramicist, a builder, has to wait until a year when we know that these craftsmen can live very well from their work. Even under such circumstances, there is still a good part of the citizens who view professional professions with ridicule. I know we're still far from the northern countries where in primary school we learn about personal finances, environmentals, the importance of work to create additional value in the community, but we're hunting the last train to try to catch them in a few decades, actually the last car on the last train. While in Croatia a master craftsman who knows his trade and does it fairly does not be respected and respected in a community such as, and sometimes more than other professions, titles and professions, we will not succeed in economic development either as a state community of citizens or as a society in general. Amendments to the law in question as well as other accompanying laws which have been amended or will need to be amended may be one of the steps towards that objective. In that faith, with some minor corrections, they should be supported. But in order for them to be implemented in practice, it is necessary to take a much bigger step, which is to return young people, future masters, craftsmen to the institutions of the state, to further release craftsmen of unnecessary and complicated bureaucratic procedures and to simplify those necessarily necessary, and most of all to return to the worker, master, craftsman dignity. We can only do so if we respect them, their knowledge and expertise and their work, only then can we say that we have succeeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164686	The third club is the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164687	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We in Croatia get three models of vocational education by amending this law. Three models in a way that each director of some vocational school can choose which model to implement. I don't know what it's going to look like in the end because what we're looking at now and back for decades, not only in this country, in that still last country, we have a problem with vocational education. And that's why what my colleague used to say from there started underestimating knowledge in the profession, and it still dates back from there. This proposal for amending the law is good and we as a club absolutely support it and would like it to be the only one in Croatia and to be trained in it because without practice, without working in practice you can't get a real master, you can't develop a profession. We are witnessing a time when the minister was a colleague of Maras, when this system of vocational education was literally returned somewhere unknown at what time and nearly destroyed. Now it's getting better, now we're back in one time when we're talking about reforming education on the reform of vocational education, so we have situations that are even certain centres of competence and then you have a situation where you have a centre of competence that has a classical vocational education, there's no practice outside of school at all. The centre of competence, the school means you get the status of the centre of competence at all no dual nor... education, practice of nothing. So I wonder how our hands do it to our left and right? They don't work well, they're not consistent. These efforts by the Ministry of Economy are to be commended, I first congratulate you that you have succeeded in this because I know it wasn't easy for you to break through, but you should continue on this trail, on this path you should continue. We are constantly talking about education in neighbouring countries, Austria is a great example for us in that country, we do well, we get along quite well. So why don't we just do it and rewrite that model? Why don't those kids, when they go into practice in the second year, not have a certain salary in the third year already have a real salary, why don't we do that? Why do we keep doing something wrong? So this doesn't apply to the Ministry of Economy, this applies to vocational education which is the main theme of this amendment to the law is to change vocational education and should be because if we don't do it we won't get craftsmen. We have another illogicality in classical vocational education all the salaries of the state, so everything happens in practice school, in theoretical teaching the state pays professors, mentors of those people who conduct practice. In this system, craftsmen will bear part of the cost. I have information that certain funds are provided with scholarships for students, that certain funds are now provided for certain incentive measures for entrepreneurs of craftsmen who will do so and that is commendable. But anyway, if we don't break that kind of thinking, if I don't do the right road to educate young people, we'll never get to what my colleague was saying and what I totally agree with. We're wandering. I'm aware of the situation and all of us in schools are doing a certain profile of personnel, that these are people who must of course have their jobs and that none of them should end up on the street, but time is running too fast and technology is developing too fast to be able to tap in place. We have to ask ourselves a question, is the system of vocational education intended for those students who will tomorrow be craftsmen and masters or does it take place for those who conduct it? That's a question we have to ask ourselves. Now we have this dual system that's supposed to be like something, I'm going to say one weird word again, one kind of weird combination is that it's not being implemented again, and nothing's going to happen again, and there's going to be a whole bunch of combinations that are going to end up being nothing. So, my recommendation to the Economy Ministry continues to attack the Ministry of Education, press them, you'll have the support I trust good from both the Chamber of craftsmen and from the people who are in the professional work and from those who need labour, so I believe from both citizens and parents who educate their children to simply find this common path and finally to find out, we draw up that our children are going to have good mentors, who will later have good employers and who will later be employers themselves. And another recommendation, we have to get schools to at least college things like how to become a craftsman, how to become an entrepreneur in vocational schools. These kids come out of school and then meet the new wall they're hitting. I have good examples from my school city, which works in Križevci, from Ivan Seljanci, there in the construction sector managed to school a good part of young people, here these very days with the happiness of two, three young boys who have maybe 25 years of craftsmen, but in practice they were out of school, building facilities in practice outside school and learning work, today they are craftsmen. That's gotta be the point. This proposal for amending the law goes in that direction, we welcome it as a club, but I say it won't be enough, we won't reach the goal until we have a variety of combinations and we all don't have an impact on the enrollment quotas, or on determining the professions that each school will have. And I repeat, and when we add to that the crazy things that are done in these situations like the centres of competence, then we see that we've been fucking around, we've been fucking around. It's gonna be hard to fix here, too, but it's a good step forward. Thank you very much, and I want more of these laws to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164688	It is now up to the club of representatives of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA respected counterpart Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164689	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is our turn to say a few things that we think are not good at this legislative proposal, although they may be at this point in principle, but it will later be seen that this principled nature of these remarks can cause great difficulties. In fact, I'm going to say right now what the main principle remark is. It seems to me that this legislative proposal sends a message that the Ministry of Science and Education is not doing its job or at least the Agency for Professional Education, someone is not doing his job in this country. That's not a good message. This is coming from the second ministry of resolution. I've pointed out more than once, and I'm going to say it again because I've been in a system of education and education since 2000, I mean, we don't have a minister of education, we have a minister of science and education. Lastly, I think that the Minister of Education, as it was called at the time, although I think that dear word of education has something to do with this law, was Mr Strugar's point of view, it seems to me that, after that, there is no more Minister of Education and now, it is going to be a step further so that education says that it should not even be an vocational education in this case, it should not even be in the Ministry of Science and Education, because what does that have to do with the ministry let the Ministry of Economy do so, on the orders of the Holy Market, which will regulate everything in this country, and so the future of our children's education. That's not how it works, I strongly oppose it as a man, as a man who worked in the education system, that's not how it works. Please ease at least this criterion so let the curricula for vocational education do the Ministry of Economy together with the Ministry of Science and Education, don't pull it out. Namely, the labour market needs are quite clear, and in this sense I see good, you have a good intention because probably all of this that you propose in changes to the law should be welcomed most of these things, since the cancellation of the price for craftsmen, from the extension of this seasonal performance, by enabling a man to perform a master's exam after 15 years, maybe even before he does, although I don't see any reason if someone really wants to deal with the craftsmanship not to do so and to pay if he has to do the master's test, if he really has that purpose. But let's go in line now, research shows that in the Republic of Croatia the majority of entrepreneurship or craftsmen were born out of necessity, be careful out of necessity. People are out of work. They're headed for crafts. In the developed countries to which we are calling out from which we prescribe this entrepreneurship is created as a continuation of some new idea, something that can be offered to the market because we have at the end and two, three even, here at a more recent time three systematic approaches. First of all, we either do, or we produce what we do, so we try to offer it to the market. The second approach is to follow what the market needs, and then in this sense we are educated, and that is this approach, but there is a third dimension missing, and that is to follow what the market will need in the future and how we will actually identify ourselves as a society according to the challenges of the future. And that's why I think that it can only be done by the Ministry of Science and Education because it's their job, their job is to determine those plans and programs to follow what's going on in the world, so that we don't stay behind forever, is that by this, this is the law relating to the current situation of what we've been found. So we lack certain profiles of interest and we must now, the Ministry of Economy must prescribe which people we need to educate to fill those jobs in order not to import labour. And what I don't understand from this bill, I'm asking the secretary of state to explain. What is the main purpose of this transfer to the Ministry of Economy? In principle, I can welcome that all students who are finishing accession, now according to this law to the scientific exam and that this is also the procedure of external evaluation, but it is quite clear, so not everyone who graduates from vocational education will be entrepreneurs. They're not all going to make turns. So what's the point of such a provision, exactly? Of course, I say again if the only purpose of external evaluation was that it could be solved in another, other way. In the end, I don’t have much longer in this debate because there will likely be opportunities in another reading. Think about it well, I don't know I should have, maybe I missed it, you say you agreed to the government, I don't know if the Minister of Science and Education is the kind of attitude she took about this, because let me take a picture like this. What does the market run? Money, that's clear, the market is set by money, capital, so there's not everyone involved in entrepreneurship because they expect some money. However, education or education as I like to say must be a step above that. Well, we can't just subdue the market and say okay, now we're going to educate welders or we won't educate them anymore because we destroyed the shipbuilding. Well, what kind of message is that? See the report yesterday on the implementation of the budget for 2018 and 2019, what is the basic problem of the Republic of Croatia, see the ratio of imports, exports. So it's not exactly our goal to get young people through education to be competitive, so that they can export our products out. Well, we can't just watch the market in the Republic of Croatia, let's watch more. We've been hit by this evil fate that people are going out to us, that's our problem, but let's take advantage of this evil fate as some sort of advantage so we can see what these people, young people out there are doing, and what we could do here so we can place it like this export product. So this topic is much deeper and that's why I think it's wrong. Leave this to the Ministry of Science and Education, as far as it's concerned, to highlight the curricula and the program to be done by the Ministry of Education. Because what if the Minister of Economy, not of course a minister and someone, says that welders should not learn Croatian language, so perhaps what Croatian language will say to them, so they will say neither, well I, when I worked in a vocational school, was not mathematics but a professional account, we can call it whatever we want, mathematics is mathematics, must learn, Croatian language young people have to learn, and I think it should be prescribed by the Ministry of Science and Education. If I'm wrong, secretary of state, tell it clearly what the mistake is in this thinking, but try to do another reading this part or throw it out, or agree it with the Ministry of Science and Education because we think this isn't, that this isn't just a good message, and for that reason I can't support it, and I believe that colleagues, we're a club of charms, but there are also independent representatives of both HSU and SNAGA, and I'm going to talk to my colleagues and I believe that they won't support this bill as long as this is here, but I'm certainly not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164690	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives and Honored Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164691	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Respected secretary of state. Talking about craftsmanship since I am a craftsman myself, so I can say a lot, being a craftsman in the Croatian state is not convenient, it is not nice. When I remember when I started being a craftsman myself, when I came I had to open up a company that would take 30, 40 days to get some size of a judge signed up and give us this company, then I said no, I'm not going to wait any longer, it's one process that I find unnecessary. If it could have been sooner and faster, of course it was, but here's the twist somehow opened up and the man who wants to enter the craft he puts his property ahead of himself and his family and, of course, with a lot of effort and a lot of time and a lot of stress you experience in this business and the fight you know is behind you standing your family, your house, your funds that you invested if you fail you are no longer able to return it. While the company is a whole other story where you can go bankrupt, cheat the state, open 10 companies, double-cross the state, nothing will happen to you, of course, nothing has happened to today. The same ones who cheated in the state, cheat today, we see it from all the things we see and read. Of course, I'm not as happy as the man I paid all my taxes and taxes in this country, and I've tried my family to get a man to work in a craftsman's office to work for at least 18 hours. It's not a job of eight hours, when you come home to shut down the company and eat, the craftsman every single one I know has to be doing a lot more work than in companies in honest companies, yes, but in those who have opened over 10 and more companies and other due taxes and obligations that we all know here. What's the problem with the turn today? Labour force. I have to admit, in the last 30 years, no one has thought about workers, of course, in that one blizzard where it was stolen, where it was considered capable people who had been working in this country impolitely, they became popular and honorable. That's why there's been a problem, our workers I have to admit are good workers, but they saw that they have nothing to look for here, especially I'm talking about crafts for people who worked physically who tried to make themselves and their family some kind of money so they could live politely in this country, so, unfortunately, they left. We don't have the workforce today, just all the young people here right now I have to tell the truth I encourage you to craft, it's fostering mid-professional knowledge in crafts, but I think it's quite late, very, very late. We're way too late here, and I'm afraid in a few years, if we continue this way as we are, we don't raise our wages and we ourselves, the craftsmen ourselves, the businessmen, we have to raise our wages. Of course, but how? When we have to charge the budget, when we have to pay for things we shouldn't pay for, and we pay for, parafiscal burdens you know for yourself how many there are, there are over 500, 200, 300 can't even count. Educations, craftsmen must lead their workers to education, which is of course paid, which is prescribed in EU law. For example, I'm going to put the freons that are today's environmental pollution or must take place every five years, and the same ones don't change, let's say R 600 that more ecological freon we had R 134 and some Freeons that no longer exist but education has to be paid and the entrepreneur has to pay to get confirmations from the Ministry of the Environment so he can keep working. There are good things that have been happening lately, the truth and happening, let's say, an entrepreneur who made some three million traffics, which he had before, three million had to go before he had to run the papers, not as a craftsman, but as a business. Here it is now rising to 7 million, we can say freely that it's a good incentive, an incentive of young people in employment, that's a good thing, thank God. That should have been done a long time ago, all this stuff I'm saying was supposed to be done 20 years ago. Here's someone remembered and I have to admit it may be late, but maybe it's not always too late. In order to be a good craftsman, you have to respect your obligations to the state, you have to meet all the things you need, pay taxes, pay everything for the workers. You have inspections that control you, which I must admit as a craftsman, you sometimes have some inspectors who come to you who need reminders, notices aren't that important things that much, but it's the law. So then you go pay 2, 3, 5,000 kuna fines which I don't think that's the way it should be. He needs to be warned, and then only in the second procedure does he get punished, if that's true. I agree, those who don't issue fiscal accounts and everyone else I consider a crime should do it, should be punished, can't complain then. But journalists also have to check it out, so then say not only by heart to attack certain things as I see them. You have a lot of untrue things that attack and accuse themselves of making no sense. Since I've become a politician myself, and I haven't been involved in politics these five years, I've actually watched this situation for four years, I've been watching around me, I've got to tell the truth that this is a much easier job than being a craftsman. You don't have any stress, you can work and you get paid from the budget is that pay is safe. And I have to ask if she's safe and a hairdresser, is she safe for those people who make something that they have to sell on the market, be competitive and we have comfort here. What I think we should at least respect what we're chosen for, we have to fight for the truth, which is the basic thing, it's all easy, it's not a problem in this country to make order, but it's always gotta be true. How to get to the truth is very difficult, very, very difficult for us in Croatia. The populists here and in the Parliament who want to talk, who would make them something... And I ask the question what did you do? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's behind you? How much effort have you made to help someone else? You're not gentlemen, most of you are not gentlemen. You get budget money, you enjoy it, and then you talk populistly to the Parliament and about how something's wrong. You need to get into work, do your job, give the workers a salary, see every night and every day, show up at 7:00, work till 10:00 p.m., maintain that firm and follow all the laws that burden you to be successful. I have to say that some things have started, some things have good things, you have to do it still, I'm always about the real ones to survive and those who try to lie and cheat in any way, this country needs to get them off the market. And so did those who had businesses, who advised me and re-functioned on the market, and had the influence to put away again. It's not a problem just having the will in both the Parliament and the Government and everywhere and putting this nation one state, the rule of law that these children of ours, I have to tell the truth and I have a problem with the workers, young people, they won't work. Of course they go into the world, the world is open to us, trying to see even here can be seen, but when we see who is employed in what places, how and in what ways, of course young people lose their will, they are not satisfied, we have to give them one security, seriousness and say that no one has the advantage in this country, that they are all the same. How to do this, of course, comes out of a communism, an unsettled society where people could only work and lead under the designation of the Communist Party, today, unfortunately, we have under the authority of some parties. This influence should fall and allow as it is in craftsmanship, as it is in companies because we receive people by quality rather than similarity. So it has to be in the county, come the professional and quality people, the educational ones that we have, but here's the brains that leave us who unfortunately said, says, it's no problem that they're leaving smart but the rest stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164692	Now we're going to the Club of Representatives of the SDP and esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164693	Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues, after this slightly bizarre debate of the club which opened a craft for the transfer of MPs to the Croatian Parliament and the issuing of voters, means that we are also hearing about some principles and how something needs to be done fairly, I really hope that the citizens will remain suspended for such discussions very soon when the next parliamentary elections come. But when we talk about this law and when we talk about what's changing, it's very important to see how it's been defined now, which is why the past five years and how things work and how it's going to work in the future. So I have to admit, and I said this in the introduction that when a qualification is given that this way, by amending the law, the economy will come closer and remove certain administrative barriers, the question arises whether the state in this way doubts the agencies it has set up, or whether these agencies are necessary at all. So this is where we talk about the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. And when someone says that this agency is an obstacle to the approach of the economy by the state, or administration, then the question arises why and whether we need such an agency at all. I think there's a very prosaic reason why this change is done and lies in something else entirely. So we know that at this point we have an organization called the Croatian Chamber of crafts which largely does not meet the needs of craftsmen today in the Republic of Croatia. Because if it were appropriate then the craftsmen would be satisfied with the work of the organization and there would be no problem at all about the functioning and payment of the chamber contribution and everything that relates to the HOK. In part, there are people, I can't say who are working hard and who, in their regional organisations in the city of Zagreb, are doing much better than what HOC does, because unlike HOK and leadership, that is, the president of the chamber and the chamber of the Ranogajci who wants to do a little politics, a little bit in the Parliament, would have become mayor a little bit and become a bit of a HDZ, so instead of dealing with the work that the chamber structures are for, I won't tell the craftsmen to choose. Because let's be realistic, when you enter the structure of a very limited circle of craftsmen choose you and it spins from day to day. So instead of dealing with how to explain and explain to people his existence and close to the chamber and in some way justify this chamber contribution that every month craftsmen pay for both politics and in the last elections he wanted to become a Krapina-Zagorje mayor which would be a disaster for Krapina-Zagorje County but a good thing for craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia because then he would no longer be president of the Chamber of craftsmen, but fortunately, I prefer that the Zagorci were saved instead of dealing with a job that he should work for, the man wants to deal with politics. And now, five years ago, the law was changing for what reason? Because it was seen that the system of carrying out these tests did not work through the craft chamber, the commissions were unsupervised, ask God if they existed at all. The system was only used to select some craftsmen in certain counties through the chamber for them to have some compensation. If that system was working back then, they'd never have changed the law five years ago. Never. That's what I'm responsible for, and that's what I'm behind. What we did then is we included the same professional education agency that must have some kind of surveillance over us and the ministry, then entrepreneurship and crafts that took over the contract records because even that record through the craft chamber didn't work at the time. And the main reason why it is now under the firm to bring the trades closer and the whole system of teaching to the economy is going to these changes, lies for a very simple reason. In fees that in this case the craft chamber will receive for certain tests. And the whole story is always in the crafts chamber, unfortunately, running around it. What are the contributions, how are the fees for individual exams and how it works. When you multiply several thousand times the fees for the assistant exams in that situation you get to the amount of 5,6 million kuna that is very significant and very nice for the crafts chamber and that is the main reason why the law is changing and that is why it is derived from the system of education and de facto pushed into the system of the crafts chamber. Of course, it helps that HDZ Minister and Unfathomable wanted be Mayor Ranogajec is also president of the crafts chamber and they understand each other very well. So the real question here is whether the state has confidence in the agency, whether or not it needs to be able to control the system of vocational education related to what we just mentioned and, of course, another thing that is very important is whether the capacities of the craft chamber are at all now, if they haven't been enabled 5 years ago, do they now allow this process to take place in a quality way. Not to print and share diplomas, but whether we will have quality supervision, quality education of children and ultimately people who are in this process and ultimately what will be the result. As for the money, I said, it's all about the money. This is also seen in the way the chamber’s contribution was raised and raised, the lift and raises the chamber’s contribution. So you know that we have partly reduced this chamber's contribution to the changes in the last law to 2% of that non-taxable part, or personal deduction, and that at one point was 44 kuna. And it worked for several years, so when HDZ came to power and it was raised in tax reforms, the HOK did not wait for a second but used every such change to raise the chamber's contribution and it today amounts to 76 kuna per month. So tell me, what does the chamber now provide more craftsmen than in 2015 when it was 42 kuna, to raise almost 100% of the chamber contribution to 76 kuna and, of course, in this way, since we have 80 and a few thousand craftsmen in Croatia, significant, and that is about 40-50 million kuna at the annual level burdening craftsmen, means 50 million kunas more chambers of craftsmen today than it did in 2015. What are the benefits that the chamber today offers more than four years ago, or three and a half years ago, pardon? I don't think there are, on the contrary, many craftsmen complain that we have left a mandatory chamber contribution at all then, but my logic was then that craftsmen, or craftsmen can keep that status on a small contribution, and that the Chamber of Commerce should have a voluntary contribution and that people can then choose whether they want to be a company or a company with, simply a company or want to be a craftsman and then they can choose the system. So someone could be, if they say I won't be a craftsman anymore, I'll open J.D.O.O. As I suggested at the time, unfortunately the HNS has boycotted it was that the Chamber of Commerce would not have at all a mandatory chamber contribution and people would have the option of choice with of course much less compensation that was related to the craft chamber and that amounted to 44 kunas at the monthly level, look, it is 76. Which means that one craftsman pays about 9 hundred kuna a year for a chamber contribution, and before he paid 5 hundred, so 400 kuna is more a burden on craftsmen at an annual level compared to what was until 2016. So unfortunately, in this law, we see only that it spins, spins things around money, so there is no concrete benefit that students or those in the system will gain, the state's supervision will be much smaller, the capacity of the chamber is not enough to meet expectations as it was not in 2013 and therefore all this has changed, regardless of how much we have increased the flow of money into the education system for these interests. Otherwise, these scholarships with which Minister Horvat and Prime Minister Plenkovic praised themselves and which this year have divided 3,000 scholarships to the ministry in the amount of 9,000 kuna are scholarships planned by the ministry while I was Minister and I can't wait to see what will be new for the new financial period now, because everything they are doing has been withdrawn from 2014-2015 and I am, I am particularly proud of this system of scholarships for craftsmanship because it is 10 thousand children will thus be more easily educated and perhaps attracted to some deficiting professions, but it would be correct when they are already sharing scholarships and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Horvat to mention that it was planned in 2014 and 2015 and that it is a programme that they have not come to, which they have not devised. And another thing that's particularly interesting to me, and that's also mentioned, this body for peaceful dispute resolution, and when you see that this is all very expensive, let's say that you have an Ranogajec politician at the head of the chamber, and that this system is run by a member of the Supreme Court of Contrec, who is also a member of the State Election Commission. And to see basically how HDZ has influence over these associations or organizations and chambers in various parts of society. In particular, in this case, Mr. Kontrec receives compensation from the Croatian Chamber of crafts, he was hired there by HDZ's Ranogaec and no one can explain to me that Mr. Kontrec in the DIP is independent of HDZ, nor can he convince me. I think citizens see it every day, if every month it gets some cobwebs and money from the Croatian crafts chamber, if it was given to it by the HDZ Ranogaec as it can be independent in the DIP, and there it should be independent. So that's another example why Mr. Jandrokovic can send his objection to the DIP and in 1 hour from the DIP get an opinion about the elections, in the way he interpreted it. Because HDZ's Ranogaec pays through the chamber one of the judges who is a member of the State Election Commission. Because Mr. Sesa is also proposed by HDZ and the president of the Republic of Croatia, and this is the system which unfortunately works in Croatia, which we must change and which is why citizens do not trust in the judiciary and institutions and the only institution we must protect in the Republic of Croatia is the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest which remains independent. These all called independent institutions are under a large handful of HDZ and therefore things in Croatia function as they function. Here, in the end, let me say that given the skepticism, we can't support this law in view of the skepticism that the capacity in 2013 was not the Chamber of craftsmen to carry it out I doubt that it would be 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164694	Let's move on. Respected representative Nada Turina Đuric on behalf of GLAS's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164695	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues whose aim should be, at least, highlighted in the reason that entrepreneurs or craftsmen in this case are in some way relieved of the obligations that have been demonstrated over time in the laws that have been passed as something which needlessly burdens them and that the entire system of operation of the crafts should, of course, be welcomed by the representatives in the Croatian Parliament and we will certainly welcome everything that will really contribute to these changes and in this direction improve craftsmanship in the Republic. However, of course, often too often in our country, and it is seen, of course, in the Croatian Parliament, the laws do not only change from that good intentions to the citizens, in this case to the craftsmen and entrepreneurs, but they change and sometimes for purely political reasons because in some previous time someone has passed certain laws, believing that they will improve as well then is spoken in the best of intentions, and now, after some time, everything is returning or changing to the old or something has changed here just because some other political option thought it was different. We, until we stop this practice, and it seems to me that even in this law somehow this idea and the discussions themselves are in some way talking about that that is, in some way, the real reason for changing this law, is not going to be good for Croatia. I was part of my job as a craftsman, my husband was almost his entire career entrepreneur, and I had all these miracles that we had been living in since '45. By the 1990s, but also this new one has afforded as entrepreneurs, and most of our entrepreneurs are, and I include in that, and the craftsmen will tell you, God knows not what good things he has brought, then, not now, nor any government has made a special effort to encourage us in the right way. And what most craftsmen and entrepreneurs expect primarily to be treated equally, or treated justly, is that there is no difference between them that unfortunately we failed, mostly because some colleagues here have said what entrepreneurship as such has often been politicised and we have created conditions in which only or exclusively successful entrepreneurs who are involved in politics and who are bound to power, regardless of whether it is the level of place, municipality, city, county or state level. Most successful are those who are connected and who have a connection to power, which is a kind of relative, I would say, entrepreneurship, a homeland in some situations and, of course, it is not good because a prerequisite for a quality economy is a healthy competition in the quality of the economy or services provided in the case of crafts, not in who is good and who belongs to which political option. We have made it all wrong, so people in our country, especially young people, and today they mentioned fellow young people who leave Croatia don't feel that if they engage in some entrepreneurial activity in this case, here is a crafty one, to start their own business that they will have the same chance as some others that I just talked about, who purposefully opened some crafts or some companies that are quite accidentally going very well either in public competitions or in some invitational competitions and work with the municipality, the city, the county and the state, or somewhere in that network, some small people who are connected to those who are good with... So this related capitalism, this related entrepreneurship in Croatia, is destroying the essence of craftsmanship, the essence of entrepreneurship. And I think that until we change that, until the policy changes, until we limit it, I'm going to say something, the pigs we're actually doing and we don't start punishing them, we can't expect that any make-up of any kind of change to take the exams, how who, that's all right to make it easier for entrepreneurs, we probably should have done it a long time ago, but whether it's going to be easier in a way that a professional agency or a chamber is doing it, so I think we have in that neighborhood of our first country that's been in a structure called capitalism for a long time, so I guess it's known how it should work, how it works with them, which can be easily copied. No, we are always fighting again after losing or winning power whose relatives, friends, fellow members, etc. to have more benefits and how we're going to change the law to ensure that. It's something that people are disgusted with, and I think it's also necessary to say from this pay phone that that's how it is, and that despite what we see and some positive things in this law, but these are small things. You know if anyone's going to pay for the craftsman, I don't think it's a single craftsman, as you might say, not an obstacle or an incentive. But well, it's a nice message, let's say, the state isn't going to charge everything on every step of some kind of paper that can literally be printed from every printer but will give it to the craftsmen. It's less important to us. The more important thing is that we make a fair, effective system that is flexible to that entrepreneur, that craft if we want to make it easier for him, then we make it easier for him not to have half of his work, or from the 8 or 10 hours he's working to separate for so-called. paperwork for waiting in any order for various administrative tasks, and let's say the man is a roller coaster or I don't know the builder and he does his own job and every hour he has to spend is a direct confiscation of his income or the collection of his work to clients. That's what we have to do. And these make-up all the time changing our law how we're going to do something for 10, 15, 20, 100 or how many kunas free entrepreneurs and craftsmen and boast about it, I mean for God's sakes, let's stop doing this rather than start doing some essential things where we're going to restore people's trust that this country really thinks about these 180 thousand people who do even though the latest data I don't know, there was some talk at the beginning of the year that some of the numbers of employees in, that some data is worrying, right now you probably have, but obviously this moving young people, that all together has an impact on the number of employees in crafts, and I think that if we don't start with these things, if it's 180 thousand employees, it's not a little. These are the people who create some kind of, but a good part of them also create a new value. It is something Croatia must never miss to upgrade. To encourage, to encourage and one person to open their own crafts, to self-employed. The law says, you won't have to take a master's test if you're 15 years old, imagine, someone remembered, 15 years of doing that job, if you can prove it, so I mean, what job is so complicated, any mastery you have to do for 15 years? So if we already wanted to get together, so let's say, people, that's, like, five years, so isn't it a five-year-old executive, high-level management jobs, management jobs don't take more than five years of work in a leading position, so does one master take 15 years to prove he knows how to do some, I mean, the law is purely political and formal. And some things aren't so bad, I hear all the time, Mr. President, as some, uh, excuse me, you switched football games somewhere, or I think... Oh, there's protests outside, excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. I mean, nothing important happened here, and we're sinking, and I'm coming from a place where recently, from a neighborhood, from a region where a big, biggest, most successful shipbuilding site, Uljanik, has recently closed down. In that shipyard, those shipyards work a lot of masters, so welders, tokars, I don't know exactly, metals mostly. Do I agree that we must adapt to the labour market or that we must take care of politics, even in this case when adopting such laws, but should this state not have any goals? Shouldn't this country know on some deadline of 30, 40, and the 50 years that this profession will take or won't be here because if every other government thinks about such one activity as shipbuilding, we'll need 500, 600 welders in one policy, in five years, and in another, we won't need one, I mean, we're a country of just 4, maybe 4 million people, so these are socially unbearable situations for the state. So the state has to have a strategy in that sense, and it seems like we don't have a strategy for this kind of change of law. We don't really know what our people should be doing, the ministry is absolutely right colleagues who say, the Ministry of Science and Education didn't even look at this law, because then they would very much ask to be present in this because they should be the ones who know what to have a strategy and know what to do in that strategy in 10, 15 or 20 years from now is going to be something that they're looking for crafts or master's professions. Shouldn't we know? Some people laugh, they should know because those who aren't 30 years ago, they knew, they brought the state into this situation, what comes and what happens, they'll be and we'll listen to our tycoons that are connected to the government, and we'll produce the kind of personnel they need, and then we'll have a worse thing in 30 years. So that's not good, we have to have goals and to formulate laws in this respect, and there, by our court, the Ministry of Science and Education has played an important role and cannot only be from the position of entrepreneurs, large or small formulate educational standards or ways in which we produce personnel. Thank you, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164696	Stanka? Here, you can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164697	Mr. Vice President. We're listening right in front of the Assembly to protest the nurses, apparently a large number of sisters have gathered. We want this opportunity, asking for a break of 10 minutes, to get time to support them. The support they definitely deserve because it's women, people who do extremely hard work. Unfortunately, everyone who has had the opportunity to use their services has made sure on the spot how difficult it is to work, demanding work, especially when there are about 12,000 nurses missing in Croatia. What I have personally experienced is that they work on a particular department on the shift of two sisters to 40 patients. All day. You know what kind of job it is with him, with medicine, with food and everything else they have to do for these people. The latest amendments to the collective agreement did not bring about changes that would provide nurses with such improvements in terms of improving their standard of living. 50 kuna on the salary they say is really nothing, zero. There is money, we have been saying this for weeks, we hold that the total amount required of 800 million kuna and for healthcare professionals and for teachers is something that can very much fit into the state budget, something that in a situation where tax revenues grow enormously, when VAT revenues only rise as much as 8%, when the total expenditure for next year is planned to be 5.5 billion kuna larger, 800 million kuna for both nurses and health professionals and for teachers not a problem for this government. Therefore, we want to show our full support once again and we are looking for a break so that we can do so in the square. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164698	Thank you. All right, I'll give you a break by 11.20. Thank you. The party at 11:10 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.20 HOURS]] Thank you. The next in front of the HSS and Democrats' Club is counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164700	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with the co-worker. I welcome all of you together on behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club and here are a few words about the amendment and addition of the Law on Trade. First of all, it should be said that craftsmanship has a long tradition in the Republic of Croatia and that craftsmen and craftsmanship are an important link in economic development and growth in Croatia, and that during those crisis years they were the backbone or backbone that brought out the state and economic system of the state in a certain way and that all the legal solutions that are going towards helping the development of craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia are welcome and we welcome them in front of the HSS. Especially when we have in front of us the fact that more than 86,000 craftsmen are registered in Croatia and that it is more than 40% of registered businessmen in Croatia and that there is certainly a need for special care. And once again, I want to repeat that within the Ministry of Economy where and now the craftsmanship is certainly being led in a certain way to take care of them, but we at HSS have been opposed to abolishing the Ministry of crafts and that, as part of the Ministry of Economy, this segment should certainly be followed as well as it was when they had their own special ministry and we hope that the craftsmen will not feel it in their business. The aim of this law is to remove restrictions on further development of the system of education related to the crafts and modality of dual education, as well as the liberalisation of conditions for the performance of crafts, the elimination of administrative burdens, the elimination of the price of craftsmanship and the price of approval for the performance of domestic work. It certainly needs to be welcomed and it is good trends. However, the key that we do not have a reduction in the number of craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia is much wider than this and much wider than this law itself. Through a series of laws that touch craftsmanship in Croatia should create preconditions that the number of craftsmen in Croatia does not fall, that young people do not leave the Republic of Croatia but create a chance for them to stay here and open their crafts. And to open their crafts to have quality acquired knowledge and competences on the labour market through the education system that they really can and have. In this respect, it is certainly necessary that stakeholders cooperate in this business, there is an important factor in the HOK that needs to be strengthened and given instruments and tools that can be greater and better service to craftsmen, that we do not have objections from the field that only pay taxes and membership fees to the Chamber of crafts, without having much benefit. This law goes in this direction to strengthen the Chamber of craftsmen and craftsmen as one team in creating better conditions for business of craftsmen in Croatia. Of course, there we also expect HGK to cooperate especially with associations of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because they too are an important factor and they lack the workforce and they would like to be involved in training programmes as well as in creating which kind of calling and occupations they need, or which they need. So those objections that were in the e-public debate tabled by the HGK must surely be considered by second reading and seen where else to include the HGK. We, too, have personally repeatedly pointed out that in creating the development of craftsmanship, close cooperation between craftsmen and schools themselves means the Ministry of Education and certainly that those debates that have already been said here today should be actively involved and the Ministry of Education stands because, above all, the Ministry of Education defines the network of schools, defines the registration quotas, and what is more important defines the basis on which quality education is based, which is the pay and conditions for the work of our teachers, teachers, teachers and other staff in schools. And it certainly is not good that here are next week's announcements and protests because the salaries in secondary education and also in high school institutions do not follow the growth of living costs, and we expect that the teachers of this development of dual education to be teachers, teachers in craft schools, industrial and crafts schools. They certainly are and must be, but then we must also evaluate them through personal incomes and therefore it is an important place and role of the Ministry of Education and through this law. Because the fact that it's not good that our teachers aren't motivated to work with students and then we have a bad result or poor competence of those students tomorrow on the labour market are immediately and less attractive for employment, and then they themselves have a problem that if they want to open up some kind of craft that they don't have enough knowledge but they have to go on learning from some of the masters who have already acquired knowledge and skills. So the key to the quality system of education certainly rests and I repeat it once again to teachers and teachers and if we do not create conditions for them not only through wages, their salaries must certainly grow and monitor life costs and create a prerequisite for them to live on their wages. But it is even more important for them to perfect themselves, to create preconditions for the training of professors, teachers that through lifelong education and they create preconditions that they can be a quality mentor or teacher, a teacher to those children who enroll in calling and occupations important for the development of craftsmanship in the Republic. It is also important to say that I have been working with the craftsmen and entrepreneurs themselves, and you often hear from them that they are reluctantly taking students from vocational schools for teaching because there are a number of obstacles that are ahead of them, obstacles through the legal framework for safety at work, through a number of other elements where it is safe and that part of the legal framework to see how to help entrepreneurs to avoid being impediments, that they do not involve themselves in the system of teaching because they certainly want to create workers tomorrow who will be able to put on a machine to work, and not to get a student who has only some theoretical knowledge, and practical very little and sure that they should work on education and students themselves in primary schools, but also their parents, why it is good to be a master in Croatia, why it is good to enroll in some interests and of course that these incentives go through the co-financing or scholarships of students in vocationaleducation , that it is good and that it is desirable to see it is also necessary to see the reasons for youngpeople , but also to see the reasons for young people who have to see thereasons. I would also like to point out here that we have the challenges of change and that we certainly need to follow the development strategies, both our European and our economies and the overall monitoring of climate change, and we have new interests ahead of us that should certainly leave assumptions and this law that can enter the network of schools in the Republic of Croatia tomorrow, because, according to European statistics, these new interests that are emerging on the labour market are above all white jobs, these are jobs, these are jobs in health care, social care and similar jobs, and it is not good for us right now that, as we are discussing this law, we have protests on Mark's square, that nurses are there and technicians, that more than 12 thousand are missing in Croatia, and those who are thinking whether to stay in Croatia or go outside of Croatia is a terrible one message there on the transparency, here in 2020 and Austria is abolishing barriers to imports of labour forces. It's a terrible message to us that we need to think about how to keep an existing fit in our medical institutions and health institutions, increase their wages, create working conditions, here, I think there's only one fact I've heard from nurses in one medical facility that they haven't received new clothes and shoes in their facility where they work for more than 20 years. So does that have to save, cost about 500, 600 kuna one nurse's equipment or 1000 kuna, if that's a health problem and in Croatia, then really rightly protest here nurses on Mark's square and technicians. Of course, the new jobs that are emerging and that need to create preconditions in our school for the development of craftsmanship, are green jobs, environmental protection jobs, energy efficiency, climate change, and surely in such and similar laws we must leave assumptions that they will have to work on the motivation of students to enroll these skills, so that they can enter, but certainly then, I also said education in our schools, professors that they can respond to new challenges and new interests. Also, here is one of the important segments that is mentioned here today that craftsmen are equal in the competition game in getting jobs, often through competitions and financing of tender documents craftsmen are thrown out of opportunity, even as subcontractors, if you are not local to local politics, you cannot get a job and certainly need to work on making sure that through the other legislative framework there are preconditions to protect our craftsmen and certainly to protect them from non-payment because many craftsmen and do business and orderly quality, in the end cannot be charged from those who have received jobs even though they have received money and there should be seen in which way to protect them through the legislative framework and through the law enforcement on the ground to charge our craftsmen their jobs. Here, my wish is that those who have a master's exam, are publicly published, that's what the Association of craftsmen of the City of Zagreb asked, because especially in large cities, there is a problem where a master is missing when the city's resident is looking for some kind of service, he doesn't know who is registered for that activity, who is who, and there are those records, only then should it be publicly announced that it is known that they are licensed masters and that they can then contact them. And it's certainly a good suggestion that these 15 years for the opening of the craft can be reduced to 5 years because if for some other management jobs in some companies and state-owned enterprises and institutions it's enough 5 years of experience, then we think that a man who's been doing some kind of craftsmanship and has this SSS can get or open crafts and register as a craftsman. Here, our wish, for us and for us from HSS, is that the number of craftsmen does not fall, here, for example, only in Brod-Posavina County we have 2176 craftsmen, over 3800 employees and the trend has been stabilised for the last year, there is not so much decline, but we had 2.5, 2006 almost 500 we have less. Who's to blame? Well, above all, the legislative framework, but also the law enforcement itself, which is often at the expense of craftsmen. Here, in this sense, my brief remarks on the proposed law, I think it is going in a good direction, and it needs to be further completed because every job we keep in Croatia is one contribution to the preservation of life in Croatia especially in rural deprived areas from which people emigrate. We often have a situation where craftsmen can't get jobs, we need to find ways to create these jobs and for them throughout Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164701	Thank you very much. We're done arguing on behalf of the clubs. Now we're going to continue with an individual debate. First up, he's a colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164702	Thank you very much, sir. I'm just sorry, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I was already speaking to the eight laws, or I would like concrete answers from Ms. Secretary of State regarding the shortcomings, the specific shortcomings of the Professional Education Agency to see if there was something wrong with that. It means saying what was the problem or why the system was changing and how it will help the economy to get closer to the education system, since Croatia has more agencies to deal with, by connecting the education system and the economy, and which is why it thinks that the Croatian Chamber of crafts that in practice has a structure developed throughout the county, but quite unequal about the quality of work, which makes it think that this structure will be better than it is given in the course of the exam. So that's the first concrete question without the general question, without the general answer that it should be in itself. I don't think so, or that it isn't. And once again I will say, here is our Zagorac Hajdas Doncic, this representative from Krapina-Zagorje County who was lucky that the Ranogaec politician did not win the previous elections but the county won the mayor again Mr. Zeljko Kolar, of course it was himself, you were not there alone said the problem for 80,000 craftsmen in Croatia because they remained Ranogaec, but when I have to watch about Zagorje I am satisfied about it. The problem is that this organization has turned into a political organization where it is both humanised and in a way that is more like a political organisation than a professional organisation that feels, and many of our craftsmen who are not satisfied with the way the organization works, unlike some chambers, I have to be honest here, not everyone is so focused. So Ranogaec would be a little minister, a little representative, a little mayor, and then when it didn't work out, he was the president of the chamber. You have, say, good craftsmen such as the Zagreb Chamber of craftsmen, Mr. Mirsa Sabic, who works in quality and shows that you are basically a craftsman and generational and in some way you understand this whole profession, because it is one thing when you enter that organization to achieve your political ambitions, and the other thing is when you deal with the organization of the problem of craftsmen as colleagues in the City of Zagreb do, which is probably one of the most quality organised crafts chambers in the Republic. And on that side I am not, nor can I be for such a change that goes exclusively in such a way that it has been agreed specifically by Minister and Mr Ranogajec and the only benefit of transferring one part of the business and money to the craft chamber of Croatia where then people will say here we see something we are doing and the state has given us public authority and we are doing it and on that side we meet the conditions that we exist at all, and the craftsmen unfortunately do not see it daily. And it's hard to compare it at all with some other systems because it's usually like to compare it to the German system, we're far from the German system, like Earth away from Mars. So on that side if we had such a branch system and if it were done that way, if, for example, the president of the craft chamber didn't have an Audi with 001 of this registration, it's already telling you enough, 001 OK, craft chamber. That already shows you a smaller set of what this is about. It's about someone wanting to have, someone wanting to have, you don't know, but pay attention to some event, look at the Audi where the president of the crafts chamber will come in, 001 crafts chamber, no. So it's already a syndrome to show itself in the essence of why this organization exists. It exists for the president to have Audi and that he might be in a position to say that he represents someone or to be a candidate in a county if HDZ doesn't find its candidate. So, on the other hand, let's focus on how the craft chamber tries to fight and set the system in the right way, and then we can think about today, tomorrow, taking over this part of the business, and I would really like to show that I am hanging what the Professional Education Agency is, maybe it exists, said on the basis of these changes, maybe the Ministry of Science is also interested in what it thinks and thinks it would be better to organize it or to stay organized as it has been. What should also be mentioned here, which is that it is urgent to see how to democratisation the craft chamber, or that as many craftsmen as possible can be participated when it has to pay a craft contribution which is 76 kuna and I say is increased by 100% in relation to what was 2016, these amendments to the law, the law which defined the non-taxable part or personal deduction, and when it increased to 3.800 kuna immediately took advantage of it and since 1.1, it seems to me, in 2017, increased the chamber contribution to 76 kuna and thus additionally burdened the crafts with nearly 50 million kuna. And let's see really how many can be included then, and not what you can do, but in practice, you can't do it very often, when all that money craftsmen give to consume as much as possible. And another thing that is very important here, and which must be talked about today is the attack, not directly I must admit, the Government or Minister, but through economists who are involved in the making of the law and who are close to the HDZ, the attack on the artisan craftsmen who have, in the past few weeks, been marked as a problem in the Republic of Croatia because they pay too little taxes, there are 45 000 and we insist that this system is not touched, but that the threshold for entering the VAT system is increased from 300,000,00 kn to 400, and possibly up to 500,00 kn so that people can achieve certain jobs and employ themselves at as little cost and as easy as possible. So that's what I think we need here as advocates to speak and where is essentially the real problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is that too much tax on those who have at least, least jobs, means that they have trades or, or companies that are only, who are self-employed or achieve a certain income within these small borders, they need to be charged as much as possible and book keeping and everything else, and not to announce that there will be a sharper set of criteria because, as here, they are in a more privileged position than some others on the market. So, anyone can choose whether they're going to be a cobweb, whether they're going to be insecure about whether a contract will be able to achieve an indefinite period of time, but at any point someone can cancel, no annual, no pension or no large pension payments, etc. So, I think that the government should protect those people who are 45,000 at this point and make up, make up more than half of all the revolutions in the Republic of Croatia, I think they should be protected, and I think that this measure should be commended on that side as the man who took part in the system, and when the extras started to report who raised the VAT threshold to 230.000,00 kn, I think I have the right to say that this is an excellent measure and that people need help, not help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164703	Thank you, too. We have four replicas on your exhibit. First up, she's a colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164704	A colleague, Maras, the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, is being shut down, something that is invisible is actually precedentd in any of the EU countries, especially if we take into account the fact that most of the European Funds, regardless of whether it is the ISF or the IRDF, the main thing that is directed towards Member States is actually in the area of vocational education and adult education. And there was the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education as an engine, a driver, and even implementing factors in the use of funds, but nevertheless the Government decided to shut down or attach that agency to one another, but this is actually a shut-down and minorisation of the role of the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. It's a completely wrong approach to vocational education, and that's what the new Law on crafts is about, which I'm going to talk about more in my own personal presentation, so that's a complete defeat of the profession. a victory of politics. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164705	Answer, come in, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164706	I agree with you, which means especially what we don't know is what the arguments are for and why there's more trust in something that didn't work until 2013. Or before that in relation to what is now. So, on this side, such a non-stop change of concept introduces additional uncertainty and mistrust in the quality and vocational education and education of adults, especially when we swear and when we put everything into lifelong education that should be one of the foundations of future and employment policies, given that jobs are changing very quickly and that people are looking for it, means it's not only a problem in the Republic, but it's a problem throughout Europe. If we're going to leave it in this case at half the political associations, then we're not going to go well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164707	Thank you. Next is my colleague Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, in your debate, you have troubled the work of the chamber president and the work of the craftsman's chamber. I've got a lot of friends, acquaintances who are craftsmen, and I've never heard of them having any problems with the work of the chamber. If you've looked at the debate with the public interest in this law, I haven't noticed, again, that the work of the chamber is being disturbed in the wake of what you're saying. You said earlier that he had a much more important form, and that the vehicle's registration mark was placed on 001 OK as a crafts chamber, in this way you... how much more important the form is than the content itself. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know how declassified that is exactly from you who were here until a month ago at 007 and you were tied to one number, if it wasn't more important to you then than to you, but I was content when you thus represented yourself in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164709	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164710	Yeah, but I think you got a little mixed up no, there was still in the game and Audi, so it's not a tile just no, it's important and Audi, so there's no Mr. Ranogajac di to put on a tile or to walk with a badge 001 OK, a man wouldn't tell him anything, but when Audi A6 is in the game, then it's a little more scary. So from craft money, the chamber can't be run in, like, Skoda or Octavia, or let's not advertise cars now, but multiple times the cheaper car, but at the expensive car, you have to get 001... , so it's not about as much an inscription as it is about wanting to show a certain status and a certain, I don't know at all how to define it but there's probably some other symbol, or way to explain it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164711	Thank you. Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, analysts have problems with craftsmen, but no one is saying that some, I would say superficial government measures, tax measures, have put us in a position to have growing outsorts from large companies into small, newly founded micro and small companies, small businesses. And that it avoids paying contributions to pension and health insurance directly. And that some government measures have put us in a position to weaken pension and health funds and that there's less and less money there. And so problems 100 and in one sector and another. Both in the health sector and in the pension sector. Thus, some government measures that seemed first - sighted and stimulating lead to new dubiosis.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164713	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164714	Well, in the principle of payment, I think when we talk about the cobwebs and their payments won't be anything, so there's, there's a problem with the one that's pulling out of the previous one, and the difference of 16 billion kunas, payments, pension payments that have been made due to the entire tax, or pension, pension system in the Republic of Croatia. In principle, I don't mind that people have some simple business and as little tax burdens as possible, no matter what it is. I think that if people estimate that they are more important, more important to do a job, to have a pension tomorrow, it's their decision, especially when it comes to entrepreneurship or what they decide to do. Health care is something else because health care is practiced every day and it wouldn't go as much but as far as the pension system is concerned, I don't think I have any problem if someone consciously decides they're going to have a smaller pension than they end up with a certain entrepreneurial... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164715	Thank you. And the last replica of fellow Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164716	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, therefore, in the light of this law, one of the key changes that is taking place is the re-examination of the master exam within the chamber instead of the professional education agency. And one of the key reasons is that this is being brought because the practice so far introduced by the 2013 Law did not justify it being implemented by the Agency. Since you were the minister of craft at that time when the law was passed, here I am interested in your opinion, which is why it was put into the agency and not left as the HDZ is now returning, since you are often called to do so badly. Here's what I'd like to hear is your explanation for what your motives were to do then.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164717	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164718	And the motives were because it didn't work. Here, very simply, the chamber couldn't, the chamber couldn't handle that system in a way, I tell you, the commissions haven't been named for years, half the people didn't even know whether or not they were members. In the end it was so sloppyly made that it was only important to take the money for the exam and finally share the diploma on which it did not write again 001... But it's written by the President of the Ranogaci. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that was the only thing that mattered on that side. Well, I wouldn't have gotten that out of my system if it worked. So that's what this is about. And I guarantee you it won't work now. Is someone going to get a degree maybe they will, and maybe that diploma will be nice, but will the job be properly done? I'm sure he won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164719	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next fellow is Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164720	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so before us is the Law that has some good things, there are some things to discuss. I will point out both, try in this debate. So I think it's good to extend time for season shifts from 6 months to 9 months at the request of craftsmen, and there's more reason for that. And I think it's always good to listen to the craftsmen who suggested that part to change and that it came out to them. The other thing is, every administrative discharge of our craftsmen is good. In this regard, I therefore welcome the reduction in the prices of the issue of crafts and other costs incurred in the establishment of crafts. And as a key and major change to this law, exactly what we were saying earlier, so now the chamber, instead of the Professional Education Agency, is going to be conducting the master exams and interrogations process. But it's not the main problem of craftsmen and it won't solve the changes, so it's one technical change in my view as I see it, so so far it's been done by the Professional Education Agency, now it's going to be doing it again. Problems remain. So it improves this part of the introduction that someone with 15 years of internship and experience can access the exam. However, here I am as an economist who has finished high school and the school of economics is still a process for me and perhaps I have some hobby, horticulture or water-installing crafts, and there I am quite skillful and old-fashioned and we have the saturation of economists on the market I still find it difficult to establish a craft in which I might use some of my skills in which I am good and in which the market might be satisfied and perhaps I would do better than someone who has finished high school. So it's still as complicated to me as it is so far and after the changes in this law. So that's what this law didn't answer. And in fact, I am encouraged by what my fellow Greeks said, not only through taxes but through these processes, I am encouraged to establish J.D.O.O. where it doesn't matter at all what education I have and what competence I have in dealing with a job that he's dealing with and that's not good at all, that's something I expected this law to solve, that it will make it easier for people or that we will encourage craftsmen to open up as much as possible and this way some of these problems remain open. And secondly, from these shifts of interrogations, that means strengthening the craftsman's chamber through master's exams, etc., it's the same topic for discussion. So, I personally believe that the Chamber of crafts is welcome, that a praiseworthy organization that has existed in Croatia for a long, long time, in Croatian society and that certainly craftsmen can benefit from it, however, as it is now set up and how it works today, is not so. Here I have a friend of the craftsman, this morning I was driven by a taxi driver who's a craftsman, and I asked him how you look at it, and he said look, I've been doing this job for 30 years, and I haven't had any contact with the chamber except I'm paying for a chamber contribution. So I have no use or harm to it, so it's one perception that rules among craftsmen, especially those connected with crafts, but in free crafts. So that's what we all here through the legislative frameworks need to do to change that view and that craftsmen think the chamber is as welcome as it should be and that it is that craftsmen have a feeling that the chamber has some benefit and that this chamber contribution they pay every month, no money has been thrown to someone who manages the chamber behaves, here's colleague Maras has talked about it a lot so I don't repeat myself. So, in this direction, I support any strengthening of the chamber but then every administrative discharge of craftsmen, and also advocating that the chamber's contribution is reduced as it was by half at the beginning, or abolishing it at the end, so let the chamber with its work encourage the craftsmen to be members of the chamber and to voluntarily pay for that acceptance, and then if let's just say put the chamber on the market, then maybe the craftsmen might have some sense of benefit from that chamber, then maybe the management of the chamber would work harder to meet the expectations and demands of the craftsman and not have that feeling that someone pays only coercion so that someone might enjoy some benefits and I don't know, to deal with politics in their spare time. So that's what we need to talk about, on what we need to have a debate to see how we get out of these problems. Certainly depolitisation of the chamber is very important to me personally, it's very little to me when the head of the chamber is so politically exposed, it's not good. It's not good, because if he is, for example, following a campaign that was also Krapina-Zagorje County where the current president of the chamber participated as mayoral candidate, which was also bitter on his part, I wonder how he will treat some craftsmen who have problems and who are other policies of orientation. So, it's not good in places like this to be politicized and it doesn't matter, it's HDZ today, it could be another party tomorrow, I don't support any party putting their paws on institutions, especially like the Chamber of Commerce whose members are various political commitments, there are people from the HDZ, from the SDP, from the MOST, etc., so other parties and there shouldn't be any political colour, and maybe it should have been regulated by law as regulated in some other organisations, so all of these are some issues of thought and I think that this is not some law that will bring about the key changes and that it will now solve most of the problems facing crafts. Some things are good, I say it again, but unfortunately, there's a lot more of those that stay open, here's so much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164721	We've got three replicas on your exhibit, the first one's a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164722	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic, it is not a lonely case, unfortunately, when you look at the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and some sports associations, here we are talking about the Croatian Football Union, everywhere the HDZ politicians have hired these functions, I guess assuming that in this way they have a wider social impact and it is also helping themselves in some future elections, which is not a small thing because, let's say, the Chamber of craftsmen has a solid budget, so now that they've raised to 76 kn and 900 kn almost annually, so count 80,000 times 900, that's about 72 million kuna they take from crafts and they have. So that's where the money is, that's usually where someone from politics is pushed, but usually you know from which political party, it's HDZ, to control the situation and try to help yourself and your party, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164723	Thank you, thank you, fellow Maras. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164724	That my colleague Maras, I have no problem that the Chamber of crafts charges a chamber contribution and that they are so much resources that if these funds are used to facilitate business, to cross some of their problems, and that these craftsmen ultimately have the feeling that the chamber is useful and that they have some benefit from it and not that they are legally forced to pay a chamber contribution and that they say that I have nothing, so I only pay there and some politician benefits it. It's the same thing with sports associations you mentioned, here's the HNS where the same clubs have to pay certain membership fees, voluntary organisations where they gather people of different political departments and only some members of some parties sit in the lead. Here is Mr. Kustic, the executive secretary of the HNS was appointed Chief of Staff of President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, I read yesterday, so what does the football alliance have to do with them now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164725	Thank you. Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164726	And no, no, colleague Djujic, the master's exam is always so far and so remains, conducted a craft chamber and its price is 2600 kuna and you can only open the craft if you passed a master's exam that is nowhere to be thought of, no, jurisdiction is where it was, and it was left. However, what has changed, which is being waged by the war, the war is an auxiliary test that was in the control of the HOK by 2013, but it didn't work, and then in a little while, we'll have a chance to hear and why it wasn't a condition, it was, but then it's not a condition for completion, so the three-year programme. It is now becoming a condition for completion because, with the construction and defence of the final work, you must now pass according to the new, according to this law and the assistant exam and get a special addition to the testimonies called the Convincement of the Auxiliary Exam I don't have time in the replica anymore, so... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164727	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164728	My fellow Glasovac, out of all of this, is the question of the need to exist and the Agency for Professional Education and that education itself, if it is the only and the main question of who will implement this education and who will charge the compensation, and I'm not talking about the quality of that education, so what young people who will be craftsmen learn through that education tomorrow and will benefit them, and that ultimately dictates the market because I as a user of some craftsman's services, I'm not interested in just how high-quality this craftsman is and how high-quality the service he is providing, and I'm not going to use it, and where he's been through that education, and in which way, it's not me as a user of service, I shouldn't be concerned, but it should be the first focus that he has quality and we here should talk about the quality, or what's better for a craft, and not what's better for some organizations that they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164729	Thank you. And last replica, colleague Emil, here's Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164730	Thank you very much. Dear Djujic, in order to know what we need and when we talk about the quality we need for a few decades, as it was even today in the debate, we need to know what we want and where we're going. We miss that, and not just today, we lack strategic thinking longer than one political mandate. So I would immediately take advantage of the occasion and ask that what measures and programmes are planned to create consciousness and a positive environment, to view vocational schools more seriously than they seem so far. Masters and craftsmen, we heard today, I think we have all the consensus, that they are the basis for the launch of economic activities in the Republic of Croatia, so let this be perhaps one proposal to use this replica, that perhaps through the EU funds, funds are used to raise awareness of the importance of professional interests through education and information.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164731	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164732	I agree with you colleagues, therefore, it is absolutely a good question to start looking at vocational schools the way these young people do, let's say that they do, that they deserve, and not as if it's something bad, and the results of that are the long-term, educational system that we have in recent years, so today, when we watch how many people each year enter a vocational high school, and that's going down from year to year, that some professions have not enrolled students for a long, long period of years, then that's the problem that we all have to deal with together. I, like you, come from a tourist area, say, was a problem in Crikvenica, which was one of the stronger schools in our area, that in recent years waiters and chefs have been signifiably reducing the number of interested in these interests, and that was a reflection of the poor situation in the hotel companies that are in the area, so young people didn't want to go there to school for places to work, and they won't get paid. And today that picture is changing, unfortunately... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164733	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't really know where I'd go. Let's praise the government's first efforts in the sense that some EU funds have been under way, but also the efforts and previous government that created that framework for the use of funds and programming frameworks for the period 2014-2020 so that these funds can be withdrawn today. Let's commend it means that some sort of continuity in the idea that today we have the opportunity to scholarship our students who attend three years of programs in craftsmanship by the unique model of education that we're talking about right here. Let's also praise that we took the opportunity to come up with a system in which we will recover 80% of the funds that go to fund the mentor and this new announcement about the plan, I don't know whether the minister mentioned it or not, I haven't been able to listen to his opening presentation, about 500 thousand kuna funds planned to be deployed on crafts to equip licensed workshops where professional practice would be carried out. But here at this last one, on this last topic, I'm putting on a big fence and I hope that really these 500 thousand kuna funds, or half a million kuna, will go into the right hands because we already have the opportunity to hear from the field that some craftsmen already know that they're going to get those funds, some of them even intend to requalified, so they're going to get them, let's say, auto mechanics are going to do the teaching, something that they're actually not really going to do as soon as they're not involved with, by just taking the money, and they're going to get them a chamber, of course, to get all the necessary papers because now they're putting everything under the same roof. Ma'am. Ministry representatives I know this is funny to you, but the minimum of culture and respect is to listen, not to you, ma'am. Secretary of State rather than this second part of your delegation, the minimum respect for MPs is to listen to what we have to say, no matter what you think about it. You may think that these are plantings, that our intentions are bad, and sometimes they are not and they are very often shown in this assembly, but here I am asking you to refrain from laughing and mocking. You can do that at the coffee shop after this assembly session. These are some good things and good sides of the government's intensities to strengthen this area of craftsmanship as well as to try to help and educate in this way. I personally participated in the exemption of the Chamber of crafts from the implementation of the practice so far in conducting the assistant exams in 2013 and I am not ashamed of that. Many of the craftsmen resented it but we were obliged to do it to our students, we were obliged to do it, it was a pedagogical measure. There is no educational system due to capital neither to craftsmanship nor to the economy nor to the political or to the narrow partial interests. Our education system exists because of public interest, the interests of society, when we talk about registration policies, the quality of education and depends on the other side on learning. That's two key things. And the Ministry of Science and Education cannot be exempt from decisions concerning an important segment, which is education. You may have happily defeated the Ministry of Education in this story and you can say that it's the government's decision and that it's all agreed, but we have a chosen conflict of concepts here. We abolished and excluded the Chamber of craftsmen, i.e. we did not exclude it, we included it, we included it through committees and through members, representatives of craftsmen, professional plus adult education agencies, because mass in the field it happened that students were taught in certain crafts that did not meet the basic conditions, that, for example, the people, the children who would go to cooking for chefs, would not learn how to cook but would be used as a cheap workforce to wash the worst, you know the black dishes, and there were many such cases, and you know that very well. It sounds nice for both Switzerland and Austria and Germany to have a phenomenal synergy of the system of work, let's call it so employers and education on the other hand and give them interference and professional parts of the curricula, not in general education, that's the job of the Ministry of Science and Education which can deny the right to say ok, now you create this small part of yourself, we'll leave it a flexible part of the curricula because you have a special need in the hotel, in tourism and you'll very much hire this young man, it's cheaper for you and us, better for us and for us to be immediately employable, that we create a professional part of the curricula, that he's almost a product but can't be excluded from the Ministry of Education and can't do anything without thinking about the interests of those children because it's not responsible of some countries, says now the Chamber of crafts, the economy will participate in your business, and you's policy to defend yourself in writings. But I guarantee you that we will not continue to change our nonsensus so that we consciously direct our children into programs that we know they will not find a job, that they will go to the Employment Service where they will be refinanced by the state. Why? Because we often protect jobs and programs in schools, which is the same legitimate expense of children and the fact that we say ok, here we need less, here we need more, no one has defended you, and so far the counties should have included all the relevant factors in which you were also the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and according to the economic development plans of the counties, you manage human resources or registration policies, it has not happened, it has not happened at least in the interest of the area in which you live to secure labour or potentials where they are missing and reduced where there are surpluses, it has not happened so far. The whole point of this law and this story is unfortunately in that assistant exam. He means since 2013 to gain completion in three years, not in four years, but this is a three-year craft program, you have to make final work and defend it, but now through this law you say, no, no, no, no, no, no, you can't, and then you could, if you wanted, access the assistant exam and after 2 years of work experience and master's exam, you had three steps. First, completion of three years of school, second assistant exam, third master's exam, but now you're saying he can't. You, in order to get the finality of a three-year program, you have to pass the assistant exam now running the chamber, I hope you won't charge it like because it's if it's final, it's like graduation, if it's finality, then it's a commitment. And according to the price list by 2013, the master's price was 2300 and the assistant was 1200, according to this decision, here's what I'm going to quote. Okay, I'm wasting my time, but never mind. It is worth it, the struggle for education is also worth public interest in education. I have nothing against it personally, but I have no objection to malpractice arguments in this assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be done, it turns out that the Ministry of Science and Education is completely incompetent, insane and out of control when you say that you have made it very difficult to organise and carry out the assistant exams, that schools are unable to say, motivate, motivate students to pass the assistant exams, that institutions for vocational education are not able to motivate economic operators to participate in the assistant exams, so how is it not a shame to write from a social resources that you need to cooperate with? That's a little ugly and a little rough. The assessment of the situation is also protesting, says too many conditions have been sought to teach children and conduct these assistant exams or get mentor status. He says you've been asking too much of us as a state since 2013, you haven't been normal. Well, normally, a person who teaches children should have some pedagogical competences and professional ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164735	Thank you. We have four replicas, the first one's a fellow Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164736	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Glasovac, as far as I know, you were the assistant minister of Jovanovic, yes, you could have influenced some things and probably could have changed some things. I've heard this, too, that the Chamber of crafts should not be paid for which I fully agree, that they pay for the craftsmen and those who want the chamber, who won't have to pay. Why would they pay me for something I don't need? And I think it should be settled as a craftsman wants to be a member of something or it won't. But the craftsman's truth is forced to take away his money, that's all I agree. But we need to know and so far you haven't done it, so here he was, and your craftsman's minister, you haven't encouraged the craftsman's schools that he is today, and they're paying and they're being encouraged and your parents are helping. And I agree with that that's one step ahead, but we're fat, we're late. We should have pulled some stuff a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164737	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164738	I don't know what you're talking about, so I told you that I was involved in just excluding some powers that the chamber had until then because we thought it wasn't doing a good job. Because you can't stand in the same place for 14 years, not invest anything, be where you are, and expect different results. If you are expected to do this impute on a 14 - year - old car, for example, an auxiliary exam, and we are in the 21st century. That's not working. And paying, so you'll still have to pay the master's exam for opening the crafts, only if you have enough experience in that activity then you'll have the opportunity to avoid the same through this law if I haven't been wronged for 15 years it seems to me that it's new now. So I don't know what you're talking about and what direction your replica was going in, we didn't understand each other at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164739	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164740	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues. In your debate, you actually mentioned two topics. One topic is a continuous education that I absolutely think should be. But the other topic is, the subject of parafiscal abuse. You know, parafiscal intrusions are about this kind of a hot story, and then it's convenient for the government to say here we're removing parafiscal intrusions, so it's been lifted this much. But parallel to that, we get bill proposals where some new imposes are introduced. Who? So we all agree that at all this part and Croatia was created at the work of craftsmen, look, walk the craftsman has become less and less, but we will continue to introduce some commitments and we will not call it intrusions but rather call it something different. It's actually a parafiscal intrusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164741	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164742	Thank you. My colleague Dark, I think even the craftsmen, I mean, it's hard for them to pay all the taxes and maybe even membership fees, but it wouldn't be a problem for them to have any of that in return. No one's got a problem paying something if we get somebody else back, I'm not gonna tell the benefit, but we get some added value. But what bothers me here when we talk about the quality of this first part of your replica, when the Ministry of Economy says that by prescribing our obligations, as why we even prescribed that someone could teach or teach young students, why they must satisfy the condition of the exam if they prove to them the basic knowledge of teaching students or why they have to have a master's exam or to get a license to conduct practical courses. So what kind of questions are these? Well, that's some criteria we have to have. Not everyone can come from the road and say I want to teach students at school or out of school.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164743	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164744	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, fellow Glasovac, there you have criticised the amendments and additions to the laws relating to the part that the Ministry of Economy and Trade essentially gives consent to enrolment in professional professions, while secondly putting the Ministry of Education. Then you said in the presentation that the fact that it really happened was that the Ministry of Education enrolled children and kept in the essence of the school for those occupations that it was known we already had a number of people at the Employment Service just to protect those schools and those professors. It is these amendments and additions to the laws where the Ministry of Economy will give consent that we believe that these things will be avoided and that children will no longer be educated for the Employment Office but for the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164745	Thank you. Answer, here's a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164746	E will not, because neither the Ministry of Economy now nor the Ministry of Science and Education then has the authority to change the registration plan proposed by the founders. We formally had to, as the Ministry of Education, only appoint, thanks to decentralisation and powers, and neither will the Ministry of Economy. It will be able to participate in the creation of some national policies. They better seek their strength in the pressures on the founder, specifically on the counties because the counties are the ones that are tailored in the entry and exit. If you said you'd cross out the county's enrollment policy, you'd end up in the Constitutional Court probably and you'd lose in it. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. I don't like it, I didn't like it when I was at the Ministry of Education. That doesn't mean I'm in favour of authoritarian access, but I am in favour of correction if someone else isn't able to, but I'm afraid I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164747	Thank you. Before the next replica we welcome the students of the Tourist and Hosting School in Split and their teachers and teachers. Welcome. Nice to meet you. .../Applause. Next replica, colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sabina Vosovac, it is a very sound argument that we will help better connect the economy and education. And what that even means in this, I mean behind that, there's got to be some action, some procedures, some evidence, that's what we can say for anything. Tomorrow when we change the law and return to vocational education, we'll say it again is better to connect the economy and education. So you need to see yourself in practice. One more time I'm saying, in 2013, it didn't work. Look at the lists of commissions, try to find these people, you'll see that half the commission wasn't there. On paper, they just stopped to graduate. The chamber couldn't do it, so we changed it. What makes you think it'll be different now? He won't. Nothing's changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164749	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164750	My colleague Maras, I am for economic cooperation and education. But I'm not in favour of dominating each other, especially the dominant economy in the education system. They must be partners, but you see here and colleague Hrg, part of the ruling coalition, today he said, as he said it, just what was interesting to me that quote, yeah, attack still the Ministry of Education and in that I wish you luck. So he was very well referred to what was happening behind the scenes of this law. If that's the point of the ruling coalition, and you from the ministry, continue to attack the Ministry of Education, then it's wrong. No, cooperate. Co-operate, and don't attack, but Mr. Hrg didn't accidentally use that term, all of us who worked in the education portfolio know what it comes to when it comes to the Law of Turning And you and I have been fighting, not directly, but through your... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164751	Thank you, colleagues. The last replica is a colleague, Boric, please welcome fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164752	Thank you very much. Comrade Glasovac, no wonder what happened in your term right in small entrepreneurship and crafts, nearly 50,000 crafts closed that minister of yours here next to you who is here today spilling his mind. And it's just not normal for us today to be taught lessons after everything you've been doing in your own closets. That formal thing of yours, in which you all, especially the twists, are under some form and the theory is completely wrong. These are the things of life where people have to do something daily, mostly it's, more or less, production, hands, power, have to create new values, etc., and you've created them in shape. And you're trying to force today that what the ministry is doing, that it's trying to connect the necessary, real things that we have, and we have them in all our activities, from construction, tourism, etc., that I'm not counting and you're doing it again in a way that you want to say just a form of choice and I don't know, you bring It doesn't matter what you do, completely wrong. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164753	Thank you. So we have a first breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Maras, then a response to the replica of his colleague, Glasovac. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164754	I mean, I'm sorry to have to react, but this is 238th and my colleague Boric usually uses it, the first thing he talks to his colleague, and he mentions my argument, and I said I personally closed 50 thousand turns, which is physically not possible, right? That everyone knows it's impossible, but on the other hand, Mr. Boric, look at this little box for the cobwebs I just opened up, so 45 grand in Croatia and... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[/Intruder: Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164755	Comrade Maras, thank you. Okay, I'm not gonna give you a heads-up right now, [[Intruder: All right, then give a warning.]] You have little abuse of the Rules of Procedure, so this is Parliament, a heated debate must exist, here you go, a response to the replica of your colleague Glasovac. [[Not to me, not to me, but to I will fight.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164756	Exactly, fellow Boric, it is vital for a student who attends a three-year crafts degree, when he goes into some kind of licensed workshop, to spend 70% of his classes there to have an adequate mentor, to have a modern way of teaching, to have all the rights of that payment guaranteed, I will not say the salaries, but those fees and not to be used as a cheap or free workforce, i.e. not to abuse the education system and students for any other purpose. This is extremely important and only when we reach those standards, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, that every child who goes to a licensed workshop gets quality, expertise and readiness tomorrow to be complete, quality on the labour market, then we meet the needs of economic cooperation, education and society as a whole. Until then, while you're... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] some interests none of that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164757	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Natasha Mikush Zigman, please. ... Here you go, pals. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, esteeming counsel and MPs, I'd like to thank you on behalf of the motionor...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164759	Comrade Maras, please, take it easy. Excuse me, please. Return the time to the lady, please. An apology. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Here you go again, ma'am. Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164760	So, I would like to thank you on behalf of the promoter for the debate on all the proposals that you have made in terms of improving the system, on your constructive criticism that you have made regarding the proposed amendments and additions to the law. I would say that, regardless of the variety of comments and remarks that have been made, somehow we can say that we all agree that there is a need for a better integration between labour market needs and the education system, and that these amendments and additions that are proposed are also at the heart of the achievement of this objective. They do not necessarily solve and certainly do not solve all the problems that craftsmen face, but they are trying in one more quality way to ensure that an existing model of education, or a unique model of education already in use, is brought to life in a more firm and different way, or to bring more practical dimensions into the system itself through a mandatory scientific exam, so what is previously highlighted as a condition for completion. I would just like to point out here, so the current statistics say that 8% of children or students are educated according to a unique model of education of which 42% are going to be tested, so since n is not required at this time, we do not have the relative representation of those children who decide to actually take the test and we believe that the obligation to apply, its application will nevertheless get better quality results in terms of preparing and acquiring concrete practical knowledge during the educational process itself. The second element that we hold important is precisely the independent and external evaluation of the practical knowledge of children, I think that we can quite easily agree that an independent evaluation is a contribution to the quality of the process itself and the third element that has been highlighted, so during the debate, what we want through the amendments and addition of this law is just to increase the number of mentors, to increase the number of those who will be able to work in this practical setting, with children or to carry out a practical part of the course, because the practice so far has shown that the relatively small representation of the mentor is, or a small number of mentors qualify for working with children, and consequently a lower proportion of practical teaching. There have been a lot of comments on the involvement or cooperation between the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy as well as the functions of the Professional Education Agency. I would like to point out here that, therefore, as regards the adoption of the programme, the Ministry of Economy according to this proposal is therefore developing an expert part of the programme, however, the curricula fully brings forward the Ministry of Competent Education so that there can be no speech on that it is not involved, so the expert part of the programme is definitely being adopted and, in accordance with the national qualification framework according to the methodology prescribed, so here it is only potential for stronger inclusion of the resistors that are responsible for the economy and which can then strengthen precisely that synergy between the needs of the economy and what the educational system offers. So, I repeat, the Ministry of Education is what brings the curricula as a whole. The changes in the model of teaching are therefore, with them the Professional Education Agency itself, which as we know it is still working and functioning, consensually so that I don't think that there should be any dispute over the fact that this system is possible and necessary and finally I would say, so if we don't educate children for labour market needs, it means for the needs of our economy and to potential for a stronger inclusion of the economy especially in vocational education, which is why we will then educate children, so I think it's only by myself that this representation and the need of the economy must be seen more strongly in education programmes. Administrative and fiscal discharge, so I have also pointed out that the prices of craftsmen are abolished, that the permission to perform domestic work is important to say that it is not paid by the assistant or we propose to call it a scientific exam, so there is no cost of carrying out a scientific examination, what is paid, which is the voter's representative pointed out is paid only by those who, later or later, have to take it out of some need, perhaps qualification, proof of qualifications abroad at this time, but therefore, in the case of the initial outcome, when passing the exams after the completion of education, this fee is not paid. In the system that is now in place, the burden on the state budget, to implement the teaching system is 700,000 kn, so at this point this is a burden on the state budget. What we propose to do with these changes is to reduce this burden on the state budget, and I would like to make it very clear, therefore, that no compensation will be paid to the Croatian Chamber of crafts for the implementation of this model of education, i.e. 700 000 kn for the budget less but it is not transferred to the Croatian Chamber of crafts. It will pay from its resources the fees for members of the commission who will therefore carry out the tests themselves. This is so that there is no word about any additional financial burden on top or even reducing what is being paid at this time. All these efforts to trace administrative discharges and to trace fiscal discharges are certainly also the efforts within what the Government has been doing since the beginning of its mandate, since the end of 2016 and in early 2017, you know that, at the annual level, administrative discharge plans are also being adopted, the fourth is already being prepared, they are being systematically implemented and therefore what we are doing through this law, through the proposed amendments and complements is a further step towards such redundancies for the businessmen. As regards promotion of craft professions, we certainly agree with what has been pointed out that it is necessary to promote the inclusion of children in vocational schools more strongly and more strongly, to encourage just craftsmanship and craftsmanship. The Ministry of Economy has proposed and implemented a project financed from the European budget, so we are already through one media campaign or TV video, and through events that will follow in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of crafts, so the conference through the exit to schools, specifically towards children, and with the support of which the budget does not cost, because it is paid by European funds, decided and made efforts to promote exactly trade interests, and here we have some currently off-the-book figures but about enrolment in vocational schools are talking about the fact that a certain success on this trail has been achieved and that we are getting some improvement in the statistics of enrolmentment in professional professions. Speaking of EU funds, I would also like to withdraw and thank you again for being pointed out in the debate, that the ministry is implementing programmes or scholarships for students and apprenticeships, again since the start of work or the term of office of this government, an invitation to tender has been opened at the very moment. 9th of this year, he ends 31. 10th and within the framework of it, it is possible to start or receive grants for children who are being educated, as well as for craftsmen, so 80% of contracts with a child are co-financed from EU grants, 80% of the salaries of mentoring fees can be obtained right from EU grants, and hence certain material assets or equipment used in the manufacturing process, or in the system of apprenticeship, which we consider to be of course a positive shift in respect of the previous period when such tenders were financed from the state budget, so we are now doing so from the funds available to us from Europe. And finally, here, in the end, she would just repeat, when we are already on the subject of EU funds, so that this tender for apprenticeship, the scholarship tender is not the only thing that the ministry of course does in terms of fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, in terms of encouraging craftsmanship. I repeat, therefore, that we have now granted about 3500 support for entrepreneurs, concrete support that is therefore not necessary to return, but is placed through projects that then encourage the economy. These supports are total € 4.5 billion, so we are talking about grants, 2.2 million kuna has been paid so far under signed contracts for entrepreneurs and, of course, we expect that, given the figures I have presented through changes to the operational programme for competitiveness and cohesion and through the next financial period, so in the 2021 perspective. – 2027, there are still more resources available to our economy because, of course, the economy is the one that ultimately returns money to the budget and allows the economy as a whole to function better. These are the efforts that the ministry makes to strengthen this system, I thank you once again for the debate, and here I hope that in the second reading the law will be supported, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164761	Thank you, and the secretary of state. We have six replicas on her display, first mate, Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164762	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Secretary of State, I am pleased to think through EU funds even though my intensity was in the other direction, not on scholarships, the most scholarships must be actually given to craftsmen, economics not cities, municipalities, states, so not the public sector. Learning also as much as possible in stores, companies, crafts for as few limits as possible, which is very important, where the student of practical knowledge will receive the most from his future employer and this is actually the goal and the basics of theoretical knowledge will be obtained at school. The public institutions are three of us, slow, they don't get to follow the rapid changes in the market, it's the private sector that will best round the whole process through scholarships and apprenticeships and at any moment best know what to do, but I repeat the precondition of everything, raise awareness of the importance of professional professions, master craftsman is the face, and we all need to know that, he creates an additional value in the community.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164763	Thank you. Next is my colleague, Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164764	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I don't agree with you that this was a constructive debate because this was a classic reckoning of Mr. Maras with a single chamber older than his political path, and it's been a full four years, and it hasn't been done here all morning to call a gentleman and deal with him because he can't answer it, but what we do is to insist on what you've suggested, to put practice ahead of theory today, because it's looking for trades and craftsmen and not act like the SDP that put the theory right ahead of practice, and we've got what we can determine today, young people who end up at the employment bureau and are not unfortunately ready to enter the world of work and contribute to the development of this country. It's up to us to change and persist regardless of their attempts to calculate with individual institutions that have worked for four years, unsuccessfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164765	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164766	Thank you very much. Maybe I'm a little bit of a misrepresented, actually, I thanked you for all the constructive proposals or constructive criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164767	Replica number three, colleague Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164768	Thank you very much. When we talk about theory and practice, respected secretary of state, you said in your final presentation that you are aware of the needs of improvement, harmonisation, education and labour market needs and I agree with you and I am glad that you are aware of these needs and you said that this law will lead to a solution to this problem and now that I have not realized from reading this law anywhere that this law will lead to the improvement of the needs of the market with the harmonisation of education, here I am asking you now to tell me what exactly changes in this law will improve these needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164769	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164770	So I'd say it will certainly contribute to a stronger integration of precisely those who work in the economy and with the economy. Therefore, by including in the design of the programme and the evaluation of learning outcomes, this synergy or the link between what the labour market needs and what the education system provides can be expected to be significantly achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164771	Comrade Voter, here you go, your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164772	Dear Secretary of State is always around 70% of all secondary school students involved in vocational education programmes, it is not something that changes, so the majority of students are actually in vocational education in the Republic of Croatia. I think mentors, say we're missing a mentor in this section of craftsmanship, okay, but let's not give up on quality here. I still think that mentors must be masters in the profession, I don't understand why they won't be asked to pass a master's exam and I don't understand why I would say education for mentors is prescribed by the Ministry of Economy and is conducted by the Croatian Chamber of crafts. That part I don't understand. Why is there an exception to the Ministry of Education, and why have the master exams been rejected? Now that part still doesn't make sense to me, I hope. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164773	You want to answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164774	There are no exceptions to master exams, so what I want to make easier on these changes is the fact that so far, according to the current concept, 60 ETCS points have been required for the category of persons who have been able to conduct practical education in schools and we believe that this has made it difficult for them to be involved as a mentor in that practical part of the education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164775	The next replica of my colleague, Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164776	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, so we can change laws, we have to supplement them, but these laws don't serve to discuss here and make sure who's better and worse than to really see what's really on the market and what's really happening to us. I'm only going to give you one example that you've probably heard terribly much, but you should talk to people who work. There's a craftsman who's got 20 employees, deals with self-painting, does a great job, he's a master, everyone's a master. And I ask him if you have any of these kids that are finished, they say I have three, I say, and they're all gonna do something about it or they're gonna go to waiters or somewhere else. And that's the problem we have. And that's the problem we need to deal with. And that's what we need to make possible and solve that those kids that end up, to make it easier for them to stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164777	The next replica of my colleague, Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164778	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I as a craftsman would just say cut, reduce parafiscal burdens to craftsmen. Let's not pay for something we don't have to pay for, and we don't have to pay for it. Practice plus education we'll have a good master. What my colleague just said is true. Nobody's going to work physically anymore, and they're building builders, and they're also self-painters, so electricians, so all people run into something easier. Let's stimulate it, it's done by this government and I can praise it and this last time it's done it's commendable, but yet I think it's already too late isn't it, we've missed 20 and over years of encouraging young people to work. We don't have a worker, and we don't have young people who want to enter the system of work, they're underrated with small wages because of course they go where they value them in Austria, Germany and other countries. We couldn't produce, we're not like craftsmen to pay higher wages because we have a burden of state parafiscal duties that stand out and we have to pay. Therefore We're taking care of it or we won't have anything. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164779	Thank you, thank you. This concludes the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts, first reading, P.Z. Number 749, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164780	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on crafts, first reading, P.Z. No. 749, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade and Others is adopted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 "for" and 41 "abstained" have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164781	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a patent law, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 679. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. We have Mrs Branka Ramljak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. So I call on the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Education, Mrs. Branko Ramljak, to give an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164782	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable MPs and MPs, you have before you the patent law, Proposal for a patent law, the proposal for this law proposes to revise the national procedures for the protection of inventions carried out by the State Intellectual Property Institute in a way that establishes a more efficient, transparent system from now on is valid. This proposal for a new law is adopted with the aim of improving the system of protection of inventions, which is within the framework of the implementation and innovation strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014. – 2020 and overall improvement of the national innovation system. In particular, the implementation of the existing patent law has identified certain shortcomings and ambiguities that result in insufficient efficiency of the patent protection procedures and legal uncertainty in the exercise of the right by means of a protected invention. These problems related to legal uncertainty have also been identified in the strategy to encourage innovation under measure 24 of the establishment of a transparent system for the management of intellectual property rights and the regime for the protection of intellectual property rights, which provides for their resolution. The causes of insufficient effectiveness of national procedures for the protection of inventions governed by the provisions of the applicable patent law and legal uncertainty arise from the existing arrangement of the dual system of protection of inventions in the Republic of Croatia by patent and consensual patent. Under the applicable law, the patent is recognised by the basis of the determination in the procedure of the substance examination of the patent application that the invention meets all the legal requirements for the recognition of patents. Consensual patent introduced into the national patent system by the Law on patents of 1999. In order to speed up the process of protection of the invention and reduction of the initial costs of such a procedure, it should serve as an advantage primarily to small and medium-sized enterprises and natural persons who would be more expensive and longer-term protection procedures by means of a standard patent to deter the protection of inventions. According to the applicable law, the consensual patent is recognised by the basis of a shortened examination procedure, which determines the fulfilment of only certain, prescribed conditions. To satisfy all the conditions laid down for the recognition of patents, only later, where necessary, shall be determined in a more expensive and long-term procedure of full examination at the request of the applicant for recognition of the consensual patent or of the interested party. As a rule, if the invention is successfully commercialised and in case of a dispute with the interested party. If such a subsequent complete investigation procedure confirms that the invention is protected by a consensual patent meets all the prescribed conditions for patent protection, the patent standards shall be recognised instead of a consensual patent, otherwise the protection by a consensual patent shall be abolished. In view of the fact that, according to the applicable law, the recognition procedure was standard, whether a consensual patent is based on the same application for protection of invention, and that only after the official publication of the application prescribed by the international legal framework by the mandatory delay of 18 months from the date of application is the applicant deciding whether the invention wants to protect it with a standard or consensus patent, the average duration of the process of recognition of the consensual patent is approximately 28 months, leading to the purpose of introducing this type of protection of invention. In addition, there are frequent problems in law enforcement due to a lack of understanding of the difference between the legal concepts of a standard and a consensus patent, primarily in the conduct of doubt of a violation of the right where there is uncertainty about the extent of the rights provided by a consensus patent in relation to the standard patent. For this reason, the proposal for a new patent law fully revises the existing Institute of Consensual Patent, which is expected to address these problems and ambiguities. Instead of the current protection of inventions, a consensual patent introduces protection of invention using a useful model through a simpler and shorter registration process, making it more appropriate to introduce an alternative method of protection of invention. The proposed law regulates separate procedures for the recognition of patents and the registration of a useful model, and the registration process of a useful model will be conducted on the basis of a specific application to be published as registered law after the completion of the formal examination. It is predicted that in this way, the duration of the invention protection process will be shortened from the current 28 months to approximately 6. A significant difference with the existing legal solution also relates to the introduction of restrictions on the protection of the subject of the applicable model in relation to the consensual patent according to the purpose of introducing this simplified concept, and it is proposed that the use model can be registered exclusively for a product which cannot be invented in the field of biotechnology, chemical or pharmaceutical matter, nor would the invention of which commercial exploitation be contrary to public order or morals. It is also foreseen that the wearer of the applicable model cannot require civil law protection under this untested right, but is only possible after carrying out the full examination and conversion of the applicable model into a patent. This will certainly improve legal certainty in the implementation of patent applications and implement measure 24 of the Strategy for the Encouragement of Innovation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2020. A further problem in the application of the applicable law is an existing procedure for the recognition of patents according to which the justification for the established panthetivity of the reported invention is provided to the applicant only after the completion of the test procedure of the sub-herital conditions for the recognition of the patent which is in the nature of the matter long and uncertain. In order to obtain an ex ante assessment of the patentability of the invention, it is appropriate to carry out a preliminary examination of the condition of the technique closest to the invention under consideration and to give a preliminary opinion on the reported invention at an early stage of the procedure as usual in the developed patent systems. The proposal for a new law regulates that the applicant will be informed at an early stage of the procedure whether or not the notified invention meets the basic requirements. Early knowledge of patent applicants is expected to result in a greater efficiency of national invention protection procedures in the Republic of Croatia as it will allow for more effective management of the risks of the procedure by applicants for patent recognition in terms of the possibility of making changes to the application prior to its publication. In addition to that problem, given the low patent activity in the Republic of Croatia and the restrictions on employment and wages in the state administration, the State Intellectual Property Institute is not able to fully ensure sufficient human capacities with specialist skills in the areas of the latest and high technologies needed for the quality implementation of the patent protection process in these areas. Therefore, this legislative proposal also proposes an arrangement allowing the National Institute for Intellectual Property to base the Cooperation Agreement with the European Patent Office prior to searching the state of the technique and giving written opinion on the application of national inventions, where appropriate, to be carried out by the European Patent Office, which has the most developed professional capacities in these areas. This would ensure a high level of quality of recognised national patents and in areas of advanced and high technology. With a view to increasing the clarity of the law, it is also proposed to introduce definitions of important concepts and to improve the provisions and shortcomings that have been observed in our implementation. We note that the provisions of the proposed new law, as well as provisions in force, are in line with the provisions for the Republic of Croatia of binding international contracts and the corresponding acquis of the EU. Since the proposed law improves certain aspects of the existing arrangement of the patent protection system and introduces no additional competences of the State Intellectual Property Institute or of other state bodies in the procedures of recognition or registration of the right, maintenance and cancellation of them or introduces additional financial or other obligations to rightholders arising from the law, the implementation of this law will not require the provision of additional financial resources from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the amendments introduced by the adoption of a new patent law are expected to increase the effectiveness of national procedures for the protection of inventions in our country, to ensure a prerequisite for high quality implementation of national patent protection procedures in the field of new and high technologies, as well as to increase legal certainty in the implementation of rights recognised by the protection of inventions, thus ensuring a more favourable environment for innovation activities in the Republic of Croatia, but also to strengthen the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises through more effective use of the patent system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164783	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. First up, she's a colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go, comrades. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164784	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Ramljak. In your presentation, you said, among other things, that the relatively small number of patent applications we have at our level at Croatia, that this new law will allow the whole process to be more efficient and faster. If I'm not mistaken, there's now an 18-month presumption that he'll be at 6. What I'm curious about is, how many demands are there at the level of a year? How many of our citizens have decided to apply at EU level and what is this relationship? And how much is around the EU level, I'm sure you have this information, is it reported annually, or is there an annual request? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164785	Thank you. The next replica is a colleague of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. According to DZS, 84% of patent applicants are individuals. In recent years, Croatia has been increasingly successful in inventions or patents, so I am pleased that what is mentioned in the proposed amendments and additions to the law or the whole law that we did not have framed in one place will have the help of the European patent office given the sub-capacitation of domestic resources. What I would just like to draw attention to in this proposal may change in a nomotechnical or expression, which is what is common in developed patent systems, I think it would be much more practical in countries' more developed patent systems so that we can also adapt to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164787	Thank you. Next replica Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164788	Thank you very much. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The opposite of what we just heard, Croatia is at an absolute start by the number of patents. In 2009, it was notified to the European Patent Office 15 and 2018. 7, so that's a catastrophic average. Only Nikola Tesla had four times more patents than Croatia in 10 years. The Ministry of Science also proposes a new draft law on higher education and science that is also here trying to solve some problems that would increase the number of patents especially in the system of academic community and the cooperation of science with the economy, so they marvel at the huge obstacles the draft law faces since it seeks to introduce greater cooperation of science with the economy, more patents in the academic community and more realistic relations of the academic community with the real needs of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164789	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor, colleague Jelkovac, colleague Bedekovic, colleague Glavak? If not, I'm opening a debate. But before opening the so-called. The debates are on the move to make a point. Let us welcome the students and students of the Tourist catering school in Split and their teachers who have joined us in the assembly. Good afternoon and welcome, good evening. We're done taking a stand, colleague Bulj, please thank you. [[Applause.]] We're done taking a stand, so we're starting to discuss the patent bill proposal, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 679. The first registered on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is representative Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go, my fellow Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164791	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Director of the Institute of Intellectual Property, today we have a proposal for a patent law. The patent protects inventions that represent innovative solutions to technical problems. The patent holder shall obtain the right to exclude others from commercial application of the protected invention. The duration of patent protection is limited to 20 years, as well as other rights is based on the territorial principle of intellectual property. The purpose of the patent protection system is to promote technological development, innovation and overall social progress. The need for such incentives through the patent protection system stems from the fact that the results of the innovation process represent new knowledge and the rights acquired by patents contribute to reducing that risk and provide incentives for investment in innovation activities. National patent protection systems, as well as other high-level intellectual property rights systems, are mutually in line with international contracts and multilateral protection systems, and in the EU, the common acquis. The legal aspect of the patent system which is not harmonised at EU international level can be established in accordance with the national needs set out. This Proposal for a patent law aims to improve the existing legal arrangement by establishing more effective procedures for the protection of inventions in procedures implemented at national level and by establishing a more transparent system of patent rights where the proposed amendments are not affected by binding provisions resulting from international agreements which are members of the Republic of Croatia. New patent law, i.e. This shall contain, before us, provisions of international agreements which are between the Republic of Croatia and the member of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, the Agreement on Trade aspects of intellectual property rights, the Agreement on Cooperation in the field of patents and the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents and the Provision on patent law. In the application of the applicable patent law, problems have been identified due to a lack of understanding of the difference between the legal concepts of patents and the consensual patent from the different stakeholders in the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights, in particular in the proceedings of suspected infringement of the right. The current patent law has been amended and complemented several times, with no consolidated version of the text being published, so the adoption of a new law will facilitate the use of the patent protection system to its end-users. The existing name of a consensual patent leads to a error of inadequately referred users of the patent system in the Republic of Croatia by the word patent implying that it is written law, so a new name is proposed for the user model. The name usable model is more appropriate since this name is used most often in a patent system that regulates this type of invention. Provision of restrictions on the protection in question by using a model in such a way as to exclude from the generally accepted exceptions relating to the subject of patent protection from the protection of inventions relating to procedures, inventions in the field of biotechnology, inventions of chemical and pharmaceutical substances and inventions whose commercial exploitation would be contrary to public order and morality. This law provides for the separation of the procedure, the recognition of patents from the registration process and the applicable model in such a way that the registration process of the applicable model is guided by a specific application which will be published as registered law as soon as possible after the completion of the formal procedure. In relation to the existing legal solution where the search for the state of play of the technique is carried out simultaneously with the examination of the patentability of the invention of the protection required only after it has been reported, published in the official report and after a full examination of that application has been requested, the new law proposes to introduce a preliminary investigation into the state of the nearest invention technique and to give a preliminary opinion on the patentability of the reported invention by the European Patent Office which has the professional capacity for which appropriate adjustment of the law is required. This law will make the law simpler and clearer. The adoption of this patent law will improve legal certainty in the implementation of patent rights through the clear separation of patent institutes from the revised institute, an untested patent for which the name "use model" is introduced. This will implement measures 2.4 to establish a transparent system for the management of intellectual property rights and the regime for the protection of intellectual property rights and the strategy for fostering innovation of the Republic of Croatia 2014/20. Increasing the efficiency and quality of the patent protection process and increasing legal certainty in the implementation of the patent will improve the business environment for investment in innovation and will have a more favourable impact on the economy. This law will contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, ensuring conditions for the effective use of the patent system by the domestic economy, which will increase their competitiveness in the EU common market as well as in the external markets. The implementation of this law will also not require additional financial resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget. For this reason, but also because of all these more favourable effects that this law will produce, the HDZ Representatives Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164792	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next on behalf of the SPD Representatives Club is colleague Maras Gordan, please welcome colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164793	Thank you beautiful colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, respected students welcome to the Croatian Parliament. Today we are talking about a very important topic for both Croatia and the economy and for the development of our country, it is a law which is a proposal for a patent law that includes intellectual property, which aims to improve the existing legal arrangement by establishing a more transparent system of patent rights and reviewing the procedures for the protection of the state's invention in a way that introduces the concept of registration law called a useful model. So I would say our legislation that we must adapt to and those standards that are in force in Europe but what is particularly important is that we have one foundation that is very important and that is the Strategy for fostering innovation of the Republic of Croatia from 2014 to 2020 that provides conditions for more effective risk management of all possible forms related to and with the registration of patents and with their potential I would say and abuse, but ultimately enables us to have a stable, regulatory framework in Croatia that will allow people to protect their intellectual property and that the economy has an appropriate benefit from it. Croatia, I would say unfortunately Croatia's economy has slowed down over the past period. And when we look at it at this point, we are a country which, as far as the economy is concerned, is a lot behind the EU average, but what is special and worrying is that our economy is also slowing down from the rate of over 3% we had in 2016, 2017, '18th of the GDP war is constantly decreasing. And this year will probably be in 2019. End below 2%. What we do not use enough is that we do not use or commercialise the creativity of our people and in Croatia there are very many creative, innovative people who patent their things but simply do not have access to capital, nor access to the market that would allow them to benefit from the Croatian economy. When we look at the working environment, especially when it comes to high-tech, IT industry, where knowledge is, or engineers who work in general, in order to develop a product that is really big, look at just how many companies have been created in the past few years with some software solutions, and when we see how expensive it is to have employees in the area at all, then we ask the question, which is why we don't allow most of these innovators to leave Croatia, for example, they go to England, though, now England will get into certain problems by leaving the EU, but they go to neighbouring countries, they go to the United States, because it's simply difficult and almost impossible for them to reach capital or develop their own product when they get some capital because they are costs, which are really high. What I think we need to pay attention to, I think it's very important to have one legal certainty. We have to have something that allows people to protect themselves simply and in a wider market of their inventions, but we have to let them know that these inventions commercialize. What's amazing is that when we compete Croatia with some corporations, our entire country has far less innovation than it says about how our science is connected with So it takes thousands and thousands of innovations to get some quality product that you can then commercialize economically. Croatia invests too little in innovation and science. We cannot reach the modern world with this level of investment, and when we look at what is happening in the EU, here I was in Finland a few days ago, which, by natural resources, is not particularly commendable, geopolitically also because it is a country that has its independence for barely a hundred years and has been constantly under some. First in Sweden and then in 1808 under Russia, and they simply couldn't develop, but when they got the opportunity to understand what to invest in and it was a very well-organized country that realized that science and innovation were something that could bring them an economic breakthrough. And then it doesn't have to be surprising that there are companies like Nokia in Finland, like Supersela, these are companies that have grown, though Nokia in the last twenty, thirty, but the company I visited that deals with innovations in the gaming industry has since 2011. And that's fascinating to see what essentially added value they've managed with a hundred employees to get to capitalize over a far-east fund worth 50% of the company's $2 billion. So four owners have for 50% of their company where only a hundred people have received $2 billion and this shows you that Finland has recognised innovation especially in software and reads a number of companies there there is also known their product that have billions of dollars of production managed to consume or produce in this segment. And now why am I saying that? I am saying that in Croatia, unfortunately, we do not have that kind of support for the industry, either through wages or through support in the financing phase, because these industries are usually funded by not the classical dominant in Croatia by the way our entrepreneurs use mostly banking funding because that is usually not how it works, but that is where they go or support the direct state, and with the support of the state, there are also certain trust and investment that is totally undeveloped in Croatia, and then they come up with capital that is sometimes a little more risky, but when it succeeds, it is able to achieve enormous added value. I am saying this for another reason because I see that many companies in Western Europe are investing in what is now very important both in innovation and in environmental prevention and protection. Finland is one of the EU leaders, and I am saying this because there are many innovators in Croatia who do so, especially in the northern part of Croatia, several companies that have broken through and exist in the European and world markets, but still have little support from the country. Sometimes it's not just support in terms of getting money but it's support and applying and showing your product in a city or in a county, for example in waste management. Mr. Djuro Horvat is one of the most famous innovators in this regard, even in European developments or Rasco Company, who presented its multi-functional vehicle for waste collection and road cleaning that sells around the world. But always such companies need to be enabled and these are the innovators when you see how much they have on their products of innovation then you realize that such companies should be significantly supported because this level of innovation development guarantees high income and guarantees what Croatia needs, and that is that we have a large GDP per capita to manage to finance certain other things again, and investment in science is a prerequisite for that. So unless we invest in our education and science, especially in higher education, we can't expect it to be better in the future. I also want to point out here that unfortunately our State Intellectual Property Institute does not have enough human capacity for these newest high-tech technologies. We need to see how and maybe apply certain outsourcings if we can't pay, and we know that in the public sector we can't pay the money people get doing these jobs in private companies. We need to see how we can connect here to monitor the needs we need, especially because of what I say the EU is doing significantly on this issue. Perhaps, it might not be bad for us to see in particular that a certain institution is being established to deal with innovations in high technologies because once again I say, it is very important to do everything in order to be able to track this and the developed economies on this issue. So here at the end of my debate here I want to say that we will support this law, I think it is a step forward, but here we must warn that the Republic of Croatia unfortunately has a helmet for certain countries, that Croatia unfortunately does not follow the dynamics of investment in high science or in science, into investing in new technologies and the development of new IT technologies, means that we have, for example, tax legislation that does not stimulate investment in this, means maybe it stimulates, but not in that part as some other countries do, that we have very high tax burdens on those, for example, those people who work, for example engineers in IT, and that if we want to make a certain step forward that we need to keep an eye on it, so that although this patent law will improve existing legal regulation and through a more transparent system of patent rights and revision of the procedures for protection of inventions, we must express our own dissatisfaction that the state and does not allow people to be creative and innovative because it has one more example of R. So, one company... There are more innovations than the Republic of Croatia, and it is significant, and it tells you that without such things, if corporations fail to succeed, neither the Republic of Croatia nor its economy, until we realize it, until we have 2-3%, we are talking about investing in the defence and mentioning NATO standards, whether we buy the Gripene or F-16 or something, and we are not talking about investing in teachers' salaries anymore, we are not talking about investing in our universities, we are not talking about reforming the University of Zagreb, which is cemented as a reinforced concrete, you can't make a change there, because there's no change in the rector's choice in the way in which one of the three systems allows it to always be one and the same person, means defacto is immeasurable, meaning while there is no propulsibility, while excellence is not winning, while there's no innovation and in the management models of our universities, the university, it's, it's hard to know that we'll be active and that we'll be able to be able to be able to be able to do this one part of this much more of the RH's, and one part to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do to do to do to do to do to make more of this part to do to make more of this part to do to do a part to do a part to do a part on this much more of the RH. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164794	Thank you, Agent Maras. Now we're starting an individual debate, the first reported representative is Maras, here's Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So little when you move from position to position, I mean from position to opposition, but from one place to another, from point to point b, to essentially, and you say a lot of things that you've already thought about individually, I think they're very reasonable or that, to understand them, you don't have much to add, but once again you can bring up some things that you think are very important, which is primarily that as a representative or minister, and also as a state official I've worked very hard with companies that are innovative, I can say there are a whole series of companies, most I say in that part of IT when you see companies like Mr. Sabola Photomed who made an application that solves tasks then you see in being how much space there is, how many companies there are or companies that have made certain applications to manage agricultural production and break into the world market, you see how much space there is in one global market and how little we need to be in the world-based, but it's very much effort. So, you can, you can succeed with a particular idea, of course, it has to be a good idea and you have to succeed in achieving a certain, certain means that allow you to develop further, but without the support of the state or without the support of the environment, primarily here I mean the academic community, you can hardly succeed. So, today in the Republic of Croatia, we have a problem that the academic community or higher education does not follow the needs of the market, I can say that fortunately in the City of Zagreb we have a very high-quality college that deals with computer science, FER is safe, so probably the best university in the City of Zagreb where excellent engineers come from who, without a problem, find jobs. What's the problem, what's a lot of people find work out of the Republic of Croatia, what's the problem what our economy no longer benefits from, and that's the classic problem that we could see here and in Mark's square today, that we educate people for other economies and for some other countries. And then a man asks himself a question and why the state doesn't keep an account and why it doesn't allow people to stay working in the Republic of Croatia under certain conditions that would be similar, they don't have to be the same because they can't be the same as they are in some other countries, but today nurses or doctors or computer engineers are justifiably asking why they should stay in Croatia at a salary 2 or 3 times less than they can get 200 or 300 km away. And then we come to the always-known question, of course, which is to reduce the cost of work and the costs that people need to pay to keep their income, and to make it worth their while, because those who are developing innovation, and innovation cannot, without quality staff, continue to commercialise and then ask the question once again says, which makes it easier for people and cheapen their work, means that there is no financial burden on these companies largely, and therefore the state, here and when it comes to artisans who use most of them, I would tell these companies to hire them for some projects, the state is going to make them even more tax burden on them, or why the state does not allow the cost of innovation, or the money invested in innovation, maximum benefit as a tax relief, so we have to raise the percentage that we invest as a state and as an economy in innovation, and it would be logical and that companies get tax relief if they are invested in new products that can be justified and that they can be eligible to develop new products. Of course, we always think someone's gonna cheat that way, that they're gonna pay someone who's been working on something else, but we need to stimulate people to pay people, that it's recognised as a tax cost to get some results. So without it, we won't need the State Intellectual Property Institute at all because there won't be any innovation. So average, here's another one I'm going to say and even below the average corporation... on the London Stock Exchange or the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, there are more innovations than the Republic of Croatia and it is devastating, it is also devastating for our university in the city of Zagreb which has very little to do with an economy that is more concerned with itself or how to survive instead of how to better connect with the economy and how to benefit from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you see, and it doesn't even exist, there's no Mr. Glasnovic here if he usually talks about some mindset and this and that, you see countries that have come out of a much more rigid system than, for example, the Republic of Croatia that was in a very liberal socialist arrangement until the 1990s, so it wasn't Russia, it wasn't China, but when you see those countries that made it about science, innovation and technology, then you see that it doesn't even have anything to do with it, but it has to do with whether it's determined that something is important and that it invests in it. When you see what Huawei has done now is a brand that can be compared to Apple or any other world brand, probably on the table of brands between the first 20, 30 in the world, and as it came from a country that has not completely such a system marketed as some others or is now developing, it is now a little more open than the '90s or the '80s, but once again the brands have evolved, innovation has developed so that China is a positive example that we can watch it invest in innovation and sometimes people have a certain skeptic against that market, in my opinion completely unwarranted because of what they have not only opened up to the economic world but they have opened up and opened up to smart and innovation and do really amazing things. When you see how Huawei works, what kind of company, what products it offers, then you see that there is nothing that can't be achieved if you have a clear vision and if you know which direction it should go in so that I would like it to be in Croatia, you would like to have companies branding in Croatia, that we have brands like, here Finland is a country of 5.5 million inhabitants, it is nothing special for residents bigger than Croatia, why does Croatia not have brands like Finland? Because of what does not invest or produce and does not support excellence as Finland does and on this side is what I will conclude and once again ask those responsible to invest in innovation, to invest in higher education because without it, there is neither our perspective nor productivity nor we will raise the level of GDP to what is average for the EU and without investment in people and science, it will certainly not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164796	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you mentioned incentives and innovation and that is the key to everything, why many of our people when they go out and then you said that many people go out for more pay and that there are wages 2, 3 times higher than in Croatia and that's true but it's not the only reason that many of our people go out, they just patent genius ideas, genius inventions, it's not because there's only more pay than there but there and conditions are better for such people and conditions for working, conditions for their innovation. So let's say, Nikola Tesla didn't go to America but stayed in Lica, probably wouldn't have known the whole world today so that's what we have to work on, creating conditions in Croatia, keeping our young innovators here and then Croatia having the fruits of that work, not that foreign countries are praised for how their scientists did something, their innovators, and they're basically people from overseas countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164798	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164799	Thank you very much. Tesla was sent out earlier, so we instead of grabbing Tesla and putting it in the first place, we let, for example, the neighbouring country call its front door with Tesla, because if we did something like that probably wouldn't have been them. Or the former Nikola Tesla factory, now called Ericsson Tesla, by my great privatisation, we had to insist on keeping the name as it was. We could do that when we privatized that company. So, unfortunately, we have had some reserves for such geniuses who are a couple of excellent promotions of Croatia. So, our fellow citizen, our man, our upper leaf, Nikola Tesla, who passes through Croatia and promotes Croatia around the world long after he died It was supposed to be the pride of all of Croatia long before people realize it now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164800	Thank you. The following is the replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I heard from my colleague Maras because you mentioned Finland purely that a few audiences in the assembly and those who are following us see how bad we really are because in 2018 seven European patents were reported in Croatia, and in Finland in 1543 the number of people who are equal. So this shows how much technology Croatia lags behind, and if we know that innovation, the intellectual capital of entrepreneurship is three key elements in creating a competitive advantage of the economy ahead of us, it is a lot of work to ensure that Croatia is side-by-side, with countries that are technologically much more advanced than we are and what you were talking about is a key education, from primary school to academic community that should be more focused on scientific research, which has to do with real life and the economy, and this is not the case in Croatia and at Croatian universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164802	Thank you very much. The next individual, and I'm sorry, the answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164803	Thank you very much. Especially the difference can be seen when we go to high school. So it's no accident that our universities aren't, now they're back at the top 1,000 in the world. So, that, that's not an accident. Why Finland may have such 30 or 50 among the top 500, England among the top 100, America not to speak, and Croatia has 1 or 2 among 1,000 and normally that the difference must be seen and normally that most, especially when we watch jobs, now when you travel a little across Europe you see what jobs people do in the way they do. So, all high value-added jobs allow those countries a certain standard, certain salaries, etc., without it Croatia will not be better. It is a prerequisite for more investment in science and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164804	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here I will look very briefly at the law, so the current patent law that is now in force was adopted in 2004 and during this period has experienced a series of amendments that should have improved the old law at the time and here I welcome the adoption of a new law. I'm extremely glad that after 15 years, we get a whole newer law, and I think it's a good one. I think these solutions that you're proposing and that you pointed out in your opening statement will greatly improve the situation my predecessors were talking about. So, that Croatia today is at the beginning of EU countries using patents of intellectual property, that we as a people still don't have that culture, we're a young country, so we don't have a culture of patents or protecting our ideas. In our rules, people think that they can take someone's intellectual property without any sanctions and no consequences, and that anyone can use everything they're offered, but we've already done a lot in the last 20 years on this issue, and most of all any change that's about to improve these things and shorten the protection process that's being accelerated by these new proposals. So, we have so far had ourselves, if a man wanted to protect his own intellectual property, the process itself and the duration of that process might have lasted for too long, and then the possibilities of complaints that anyone had in essence, to, to, to, to, to, to any man could complain about trying to protect any other man that would make the process difficult, made it difficult for me to process and protect, and ultimately led to the theft of someone's ideas and innovation. These legal decisions are now being reduced. It won't go away, but it's getting smaller anyway, and that's good. So here, I am extremely pleased, therefore, that the protection process is being reduced, that the abuse possibilities are being eliminated and that this is an improvement, but it should certainly continue, because this law is now the solution to some of the problems we have seen and, after its adoption, there will also be some new problems and some new, new challenges that are ahead of us and a new era. Technology brings some new things, and all of this needs to be taken into account, and if this law needs to be amended in the future because technology is going so fast and it's developing so fast that it needs to be done in my opinion, so we don't wait 15 years for a new law to be passed again, I don't think it's bad that sometimes the whole law is changing if the environment and conditions in the environment require it, and that's why we have to be willing to respond to all these challenges. Therefore, full support for these changes and I only appeal to you to follow and future what is going on and to give you ready to be responsible for the challenges ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164806	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, so here are a few sentences with this debate, and I also support the adoption of this law, I think it will create a framework that will at least reduce the obstacles that exist to increase the number of patents in Croatia. I've already spoken through some replicas today so we don't stand well here. So in 2018 we only have 7 European patents registered, in 2009 there were 15 and there are numerous evidences of direct link and correlation between the success of the patent economy. Not to mention, here's the U.S. has 31 thousand 136 European patents, Germany 20 thousand 800, France 8 thousand 610. And those in Croatia are like Morocco, Lebanon, Namibia, Jamaica, Vietnam, Cuba, Peru, Serbia that has below 10 patents. Slovenia is even 10x better than Croatia with 70 patents registered. So there's a problem here, it's a systemic problem. So, of course, it won't be changed by just one law, but it's important that this law at least reduces the obstacles that exist. We could hear, for example, from the director of the State Institute of Intellectual Property, that two very important reasons are with some others that lead to our number of patents being small. One is the lack of entrepreneurial culture and the other is the lack of the main holders of significant technological investments, which are generally scientific research institutes and universities and innovative large, medium and small companies. This is not the case with us, it is mainly medium technology products and they are not materially oriented to innovative products. On the other hand, if we look at some members of the academic community like Dr. Vinkovic or Secretary of State Anticic can then be heard from them that in fact, a small number of patents are one of the symptoms of economic disease as picturesque as Dr. Vinkovic said like a high temperature. What are the key problems for them that are partly trying to solve through this law but will have to be solved through others, that is that there is no motivation for innovators in the academic community, that they create some spin-off companies because in this way we could increase the number of innovations but also ensure that young entrepreneurs, people who have ideas remain in Croatia and through our academic community that is directly connected to the economy very quickly increase that number of patents. For this reason, I also point out that we are awaiting the adoption of a new Law on Higher Education and Science. The law which has proposals in its text that should encourage a high-tech economy, and I hope that this patent law will also be accompanied by other acts that will ensure that there is an increase in the number of innovations in Croatia because it will also mean a more successful and more business economy, a more competitive economy, the creation of new jobs and the creation of better living and working conditions in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164808	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164809	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned a small number of patents. On the other hand, we have a large number of support for innovation, new products and new technologies. Why aren't there any new patents? So maybe it's also the cause of education because often the largest number of patents innovators is from the ranks of STEM fields from technical sciences and working with young technicians, with communities of technical culture is too little and there are few objects that follow this topic and I think we should change the relationship in our education, increase the class of these subjects, allow young people to deal with technical culture, co-finance this work so it's not just left to enthusiasts. And on the other hand, we have absurdities that we're e.g. protect Vegeta, her recipe but are components, products that make that Vegeta all from import. And that's where we have to look for solutions when we're already protecting something to raise domestic production, to have all the components of domestic production and thus to preserve the competitiveness of the domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164810	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164811	Thank you. You're absolutely right. If we look at our young innovators, students who go to competitions around the world are also having great results. It means we have that potential, but that potential needs to be recognized and developed. And besides, we all like to admire the successes of Mate Roman, who just came from one such educational system with his desire for innovations today to one of the most recognizable people in the automotive industry, which testifies to the need to evaluate technical culture through primary school, high school education. And we know that in Croatia there is, here last week in Rijeka was marked Community of Technical Culture Day where it was this way that young people were trying to encourage them to practice more technical culture, to direct them into STEM areas, and then there will probably be innovators among them who will increase this number of innovations that are really modest in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164812	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education, Mrs Branka Ramljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Thank you very much for all the comments, for the suggestions, for the support you gave to this patent law that has, in this period from 2004 to today, experienced a lot of changes, and given the changes in the environment that affect this one, in fact, all the stakeholders who use and apply this law were in need of a new law. I would like to take advantage of and opportunity here is Mrs. Mrak Taritash's absence, distinguished MPs, and we have now been on the pages of the European Patent Office, where data is updated from minute to minute about how many applications are made in certain countries in the European Patent Office, because we have been a member of that European Patent Office since 2004. So our numbers we now have, of course, are small and clear that we are not satisfied, and therefore we think that this law will encourage exactly this to report a number of people on the whole of these procedures have now been very long, the administration has been very much, enough and there have been problems with non-transparency and the effectiveness itself has ultimately lagging behind. So our figures say that the figures, pardons, of the European Patent Office for Croatia for the third quarter of this year that the application of domestic applicants was 152. Report of foreign applicants submitted directly to this office, our State Intellectual Property Office, 11 and ours who applied to international applications, 3, that is, a total of 166 applications. I have to say that this is the increase compared to the previous few years, so I'm talking about the third quarter of this year, and we expect that by the end of this year, clearly, that number will be larger. And to Mrs. McNally. also Glavak, a respected representative, that we will respect her remarks and that after reading the second reading we will correct it in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164814	Thank you very much. We will conclude the debate in this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164815	Proposal for a patent law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 679, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a patent law and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 118 "for" and 1 "abstained" have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164816	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Protocols amending and supplementing the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 747; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 747. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Administration Darko Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164817	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President and welcome the honourable MPs and MPs. So, as is said, you have before you the Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data and is adopted in Croatian legislation, or the Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention, which, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, is signed by the Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Republic of Europe on 22 March 2019, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Protocol is a document modernising and supplementing the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to Automated Personal Data Processing, Croatia has been a signator of the Convention since 2003 as well as an additional protocol concerning supervisory authorities and international data exchange. Croatia ratified the 2005 Convention by adopting the Law attesting the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data and Additional Protocol with the Convention. The Council of Europe shall be synchronised by the adoption of the Protocol with EU data protection reforms, primarily with the General Data Protection Regulation, etc. The GDPR Regulation of 25 May 2018, and it is also the urgency of the protocol to modernise the Convention in relation to globalisation, the Internet and modern data processing methods. The Protocol aims to extend the scope of the protection of automated processing of personal data, as well as to increase the efficiency of the protection of personal data. In order to implement the Final Proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention, it is not necessary to provide for additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, and consequently, it is proposed to the HS to adopt a law on the validation of the protocol in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164818	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. The first club of MPs is the Alliance of Independent Lists. He should have spoken to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, gone, lost his right to speak, so the next club of representatives would be the HDZ on behalf of whom the respected representative Zarko Tušek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164819	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Fellow Members and colleagues, the right to the protection of personal data as well as the right to privacy, is considered to be one of the most important fundamental human rights. Different states as a fundamental human right regulate it by different regulations. In the context of the daily continuous and accelerated development of modern information and communication technologies, the protection of this right is becoming increasingly important every day. His direct violation can be witnessed daily, and a series of examples of the abuse of modern media, such as the Internet and a series of social networks that allow their users that any information can be published and that it can be spread uncontrollably as such, are an integral part of our lives. I dare say that it becomes an integral part of a modern-day culture that deeply violates the fundamental ethical and moral principles of human protection, his personality and his privacy in a series of his postulates. It is logical that in such an environment personal data protection is a huge global problem. National legislation regulates the protection of personal data through national jurisdiction, but global networks, virtual worlds do not know the barriers or have defined limits as they should be. The concept of information privacy, which involves different aspects related to the regulation of the use of personal data, is therefore considered to be one of the fundamental issues of modern times. The basic legal framework, the Convention for the Protection of Personal Data, based on which we adopted the Personal Data Protection Act in HS in 2003, was adopted in 1981. The Council of Europe sought to modernise and perfect the Convention in several cycles. In line with the new technological challenges. The last cycle of modernisation began, as the proposal also states, in 2011 the Protocol itself, which amends and supplements the Convention, is the consequence of this process of improvement and is drawn up and opened for signing in October 2018 with a desire to further ensure the consistency and compatibility of the Convention with the EU's legislative framework. The Protocol thus modernises the definition of automated data processing, the controller and a number of other relevant relevant concepts following the professional nomenclature in the personal data protection segment that we have already said is developing from day to day. It also increases the volume of data which may be processed, transparency in the processing of data which has not taken into account the opinion of individuals and the right to object. In accordance with this, this is one actually technical thing in its content sense, it is very complex matter, terribly relevant in today's times and the HDZ Club will of course support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164820	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which they will speak the esteemed representative of the Goddess Makar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164821	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have today in the second reading of this law, the law that we discussed a lot in the first reading because lately and among us, but also in the public is the protection of personal data and how to find the balance between the right to the protection of personal data, but also the right to process these data when it is needed. I will really only briefly single out what this Convention brings us and reiterate and point out once again, and this is to remember that the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data by the Council of Europe is drawn up and open to signing in 1981. in Strasbourg. The Convention is still the only binding international agreement on the protection of personal data with the potential to become a global standard. The Republic of Croatia shall be a party to the Convention and to the Additional Protocol in addition to the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automated Processing of Personal Data with regard to Supervisory Authorities and International Data Exchange. In accordance with the Convention in the Republic of Croatia, a Personal Data Protection Act containing the principles for data protection has also been adopted in the Convention. The Council of Europe has continuously sought to modernise and perfect the Convention, the last cycle of modernisation began in 2011 to respond better to modern challenges stemming from modern information communication technology, the Internet, globalisation and an exceptional increase in the flow of personal information. The main task is entrusted among the Government at the Council of Europe's hoc data protection committee. The result of the Council of Europe's work process to modernise the Convention is a protocol amending and supplementing this Convention. In principle, the text of the Protocol adheres to the provisions of the Convention which are supplemented by the detailed text in the light of recommendations and guidelines, which aim to ensure consistency and compatibility with other legislative frameworks in the field of the protection of personal data. The Protocol modernises the definitions of automated data processing, processing leaders and other relevant concepts, and modernises the expression in accordance with the professional nomenclature in the field of protection of personal data. And what you might only end up adding is that this Protocol introduces the possibility of international cooperation between supervisory authorities and the setting up of a network, and for the purpose of making the quality of the work of the body with particular emphasis on strengthening the convention drawn up by the representatives of the Member States and more effective implementation of standards for the protection of personal data to strengthen the credibility of the Convention. The HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164822	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164823	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here's really very briefly, the SDP's club will also support the adoption of this law, this is a alignment with international legislation, and we support it and here I won't, for long on the law itself, since my predecessors have already said about the law itself, but what interests us in the SDP Club is, with all due support, only as far as we as we as the country are willing to meet the challenges that are facing us today, and as far as the protection of personal data is concerned, and in general let's say so anonymously, each of us, each citizen, and in an individual debate, I'll give a few examples, examples of, of personal examples where I'm concerned with how many countries this is, how much of this is in all these challenges, that this is not just a mereconformance with international regulations, but here we support because this is certainly one step in, in the preservation of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164824	Thank you very much. Now they would move to an individual debate, and will again speak the respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here I am very briefly, why individually I didn't want to speak up on behalf of the club any personal examples that I've met, which is why I've actually used here individually, but in the sum of time I won't cross either one of them so here, this is how much I'm interested in how much we as a state are willing to respond to these challenges of anonymity when we know today, let's say this in a word to the virtual world, here I'm going to give one example that happened to me six to seven days ago that's a little bit like that, he gave me the thought of let's say so. So, after a long, long time I met one of my acquaintances and so, we talk and ask him about a colleague, a joint I haven't seen in a long, long time, a 10-year time and he tells me now we'll call him and he calls him and we now talk a little bit and we exchange numbers, we have to see him after a long time and I call him from my number and we talk to him, two and we'll meet in 10-15 days, the second day facebook offers me this friend as a person I may know, and I haven't searched him, I haven't asked him on the facebook or anything. So, I come to the conclusion that my phone over the number connected that the two of us might have been in some kind of communication and now it suggests friendship through facebook with him. So, that's one example that maybe goes beyond my expectations that if, I don't know, I'm going through adverts from nauticals, that some computer is offering me now nautical ads through various pages, that's kind of coming to me, some kind of market marketing, but this is kind of a personal thing where someone gets into some of my calls, conversations. And this is now a question that interests me how the state can control it, or whether it can even control it and regulate it, protects the privacy of every citizen in this regard. The other thing is, lately I've been often called, in the last year, two days some firm that presents itself as here you're a lucky winner, your phone number we pulled out at the base only, you've got a 500 kuna prize, you just have to come to some dinner, listen to the presentation hour, two hours, I believe we've all met with this and as soon as you get some kind of reward. And I immediately ask you a question where did you get my number? Well, you know, especially today, it's easier because we have this GDPR, so we can all call it, so somebody can't just use my phone number. Bay the way, my phone number doesn't even appear on my name, but it's registered to a legal person and I don't give it around everyone in particular not in any prize games and then they tell me you probably gave your number somewhere and gave consent to use it. I say I didn't, and then I tell you where, what I insist you tell me, as a rule they say here we won't bother you anymore and cover the connection. Often the word is here, two, three days ago the company called me, I don't know how to tell Euroline, then when you get into some data that company just moved a little bit is one, a little bit different, it's a little bit in Osijek, it's a little in Split. But then when I talk to people, they say that some teleopers have sold essentially their bases to some kind of legal person and give our phone numbers to money that they're using. And now I'm asking if it's in accordance with all the laws and whether it's in accordance with the very regulations that we're bringing here today. And how to respond, that is, how the state can react there. Here are some of the dilemmas that I have of this, mostly full of support for this law but I wouldn't want it to remain just a dead letter on paper, but that really in its implementation, our citizens feel protected from speaking, let's say, technological facebook, that I don't know, here's an academic Reiner can take a photo and I happen to end up in that photo that doesn't even take a picture of me, that I'm somewhere 20 people in order and that already facebook recognizes my face and that he's sending a notice that and that person picked up a photo that you might be in. I don't know if, as far as we are as a country, how much Europe today is even willing to respond to these challenges and how many citizens, or how many of us today can have something called intimacy. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164826	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164827	Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 747, the promoter is the Government, and the debate is closed and I am voting on the final proposal for that law, please vote. I note that, with 113 votes "for" and 3 "abstained" votes, the Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164828	So we'll move to the next point, and that's: - Final bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in defence issues, second reading, P.Z. No. 748; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164829	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs. So before you there is a final proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in defence matters. Otherwise, Croatia has signed such agreements with a number of countries in the EU, NATO, as well as countries outside both the EU and NATO alliances. The Portuguese Republic, although it has not played a significant partner of the Republic of Portugal in the area of defence and security, is an ally of EU and NATO member states. Our two countries have so far not had signed defence cooperation agreements and this agreement was signed on 12 July 2019 when visiting the Portuguese Minister with the aim of creating legal conditions for the development of cooperation in all areas of defence. One of our priorities is to ensure quality military education for our future officers, a prerequisite for the successful development of the defence system of any country in the world. We are always trying to transfer to Croatia the experience and knowledge of the best in a particular area and... Portugal's maritime academys do not deny centuries of tradition, expertise and knowledge and studies of military maritime in Split are considered extremely useful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The exchange of professional staff, first of all, will improve the existing skills of military maritime studies and help strengthen our national defence capabilities in the maritime domain and invest in the future of military higher education. The lecture of Portuguese experts will contribute to the internationalisation of military maritime and to raising the overall level of expertise. Furthermore, Portugal as well as Croatia can boast of the long maritime tradition and in this context we will work on sharing experiences through the exchange of officers on the ships of our warships. Co-operation in the domain of Homeland Security is another link between Portugal and Croatia. These are the elemental disasters that cause major material damage and, in the Portuguese case, even human lives, we saw it last and before last year. The Portuguese side has seen the quality of the solutions that Croatia is responding through the home security system to the challenges of the fire in the summer months and the planned level of knowledge and transfer of experiences in this context. Such cooperation will hopefully help Croatia and Portugal to combat natural disasters even more effectively with expertise, synergy and knowledge in the future. Cooperation in the military technical domain and co-operation of defence industries are of the potential for the future of Croatian companies, they open doors for Croatian companies not only on Portuguese but also on the wider market. This law confirms the agreement so that its provisions under the Constitution become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of this law will meet the conditions for the entry into force of an agreement establishing an international legal framework for the cooperation of the two countries in defence matters. And what is also important to highlight for the implementation of this law is not necessary to provide additional funding from the State budget in view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, I propose that you support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164830	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164831	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I just wanted to comment, you are right when you say that Croatia is a maritime country and that in this sense development and shipbuilding and then the submarine would be extremely important. However, we now in the Republic of Croatia have only one submarine, she is not in function, she should be transported I think from Split to Zagreb to the Technical Museum, it is about the Velebit submarine if I am not mistaken. Tell me what are the actual opportunities for the Republic of Croatia, and given this state of shipbuilding, in the future it really goes into the construction of submarines, is there a tradition there, and would that make sense? Is it possible, in this sense, to negotiate with the NATO alliance or with someone else, that such a single branch should be launched so that it can be an incentive for the Croatian economy? We're mostly talking about getting a plane, and that's the part we ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164832	The answer of the esteemed one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164833	Thank you very much, Vice President. The key question is, are submarines even needed in Croatia? So this is a key issue given the divorce of the Croatian coast, on numerous islands, etc., I don't think Croatia needs to engage in such expensive projects as the construction of this submarine and I'm afraid there will be no room for Croatian shipyards in the future. The second question is whether such fighter aircraft, etc., but all of these questions should first and foremost be said by these military experts from our headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164834	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first one will be addressed by respected MP Ante Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164835	Dear Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, state secretary, there are a number of international contracts and international acts concluded between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic in various areas of cooperation, and now we are adding to this rich cooperation actually cooperation on defence issues. On behalf of the Republic of Croatia on 10 July 2019, Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic signed an agreement with Portuguese counterpart Joa Gomes Cravinh on Croatia and Portugal's defence cooperation. The implementation of the agreement will enable parties to cooperate in the fields of strategic dialogue of defence policy and military doctrine, common security defence policy of the EU, defence industry, technology and equipment, defence capabilities, military legislation, planning and production, logistics and procurement, scientific and military health cooperation, military education and training, military exercises, peace support operations, humanitarian operations and search and rescue operations, and other areas of common interest in the area of defence. The provisions of this Agreement will allow for the exchange of experience in defence areas, exchange of observers in military exercises, exchange of technical, technological and industrial data and use of party capacities in areas of common interest. In accordance with their national regulations of exchange of lecturers and participation in courses, seminars, conferences and symposiums organised by the parties. The Agreement also provides for cooperation in the field of fire-fighting activities. The Republic of Portugal and the Republic of Portugal have similar climate and experience in the fight against fire. We remember a few years ago, the Portuguese were looking for help when hundreds of fires were around Portugal, and we went out to meet our Canadians. During the summer months, too, a large number of fires were recorded in the Republic of Croatia, and around 1700 were recorded in 2018. It is precisely in this area that the Republic of Croatia and Portugal have great experience and cooperation in this area will be of great importance to both sides. The agreement provides for the exchange of knowledge and experience to ensure that both sides fight fires effectively in the future. The objective of the agreement is to promote cooperation between parties on defence issues and within their competences, in accordance with their internal law and international obligations, which these parties have assumed and the principle of equality of mutual and mutual interest. The costs of this Agreement shall be borne by each Party in accordance with its applicable law, any disputes in connection with the agreement and the interpretation of the agreement shall, of course, be settled diplomatically between the parties, and the agreement may be amended, complemented at the request of one of the parties. Through the mutual cooperation agreed by this agreement, we have the opportunity to share great experience and knowledge and to contribute to making cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Portugal even better. For all these reasons, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation on defence issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164836	Thank you very much. We will now go to an individual debate attended by the respected representative Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I am truly surprised that this agreement has not been with all the Member States and the EU and NATO since we are a member of the EU, and that we are a member of NATO and I am truly surprised that Croatia has no agreements on this kind of cooperation with all the Member States and the EU and NATO, but here we are now slowly agreeing on the agreement, so I support this agreement and its adoption, and I have come to the debate on what is important, which is what you state secretaries have pointed out, so when something is called cooperation on defence issues, it is well emphasized that it is not only defence issues, but let's say here are two very similar countries, both in terms of fire or security as you said to citizens and the Republic of Portugal in this case, but also other EU countries, so when we are talking about Croatia and Portugal, two very similar countries, very similar things, so on the subject to some threats and some of tradition and some of the common, and this is the same thing that we are going to the same thing that we are going to the same way, which we are going to the same strategy. So, the Republic of Croatia as a NATO member, as well as other EU countries, is singled out, so large means of defence and arms, large because it simply costs dearly, that is, that is, that is, a branch that requires huge costs. Also, every EU country singles out significant funds, but now everyone gives a lot, and together we have some tiny pieces, so we talked a lot about getting planes, so when we talk about planes, I understand that we need them, and because of these canaders, so we wouldn't have such a strong Canadian or squadron of canaders and other aviation what comes out of it, so I can understand it, but whether every country of the EU should have all the armies of the army to say in its territory, here you were in war and you were minister and similar restor, I'm interested in your opinion, whether you think that the EU should, in some future, be able to identify between itself that countries that have a long maritime tradition like the Republic of Croatia and Portugal are more invested in the Navy and in the defence at sea, and some countries that have experience in some other areas, i.e.e.e. that at EU level, there is a common strategy and that there are not all of the military understanding that there. So, if we were to focus on whether it would be more effective and in the defence itself and in the effectiveness of all EU countries as a community or maybe this mode is as good as it is, and then a little bit too expensive, for players like, I don't know, the United States, which is also the President of their Trump points out that countries in the EU are too little investing in education, in weapons, and in relation to the United States, we're getting ahead, but I think it's hard for us to measure ourselves with them like this, but if the EU invested more in these divided segments at its level, we might be effective, and maybe we could be able to follow it all together, clean, clear for a topic of some debate and I'm interested in your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164838	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable counsel Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, fellow Djujic, you may have compared something that cannot be compared, the EU and the United States, the United States is still a country, the EU is not, the United European countries are not, neither will it be or shouldn't be, it's not even the original idea of the EU. Integration that, co-operation, yes, exists even in NATO's coverage, but not that national states lose their abilities and even in the area of defence policy. However, they can save some funds if they go into some joint investment, in developing some common capabilities, but each national state still has to take care of its national security and therefore also have its own capabilities, that does not mean that it cannot be integrated into NATO's or NATO's coverage. The EU in certain segments, but must preserve its capabilities as any national state, so must the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164840	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164841	Thank you very much. My fellow Stier, I didn't mean to compare the EU and the United States, it's clear to me that it's incomparable, but on this one example I was talking about efficiency, so that's what it's usually about, we're not on different tracks and it's clear to me, it's all about some sort of debate, it's clear to me, for example. When a situation happens as a brexit, so let's say you have a common army and now you have one country coming out, what's happening at that point with the defense, but it's all clear to me and it's all about talking, but I'm constantly thinking about whether maybe not giving up everything, but whether maybe the Republic of Croatia should take an example of us now, so whether we should maybe invest in the Navy and the Navy here we are good and where we have a century-old tradition, we have a great sea and we're just good at sea on all matters, both commercial and defence, etc., and maybe less invest in some other areas where I don't know Finland and Sweden much stronger than us, so on that trail I thought that we would make some kind of strategy at EU level with a common army where some major emphasis would be placed depending on the country to the ground. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164842	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Tomislav Ivić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164843	Thank you very much. I would first of all like to thank you for this brief debate and I hope that you will support this proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic, and by the way, here I am perhaps to answer a colleague about, for this question, about this, possible, right, European army. We must first of all take care that the Republic of Croatia is a member and the EU, but also NATO alliance, NATO is a defence alliance and I think it is crucial and important not to duplicate capacities, so NATO has this defence policy, the EU has its common, foreign and security and defence policy, and it is important that there is good coordination between the EU and NATO alliances. And this Republic of Croatia, of course, must act responsibly as a member of the EU but also as a member of the NATO Alliance. The fact is that there are some joint initiatives and around European combat groups, and they are slowly forming this one, but it is not the classic army in the sense that we know it today, but it is necessary and necessary that EU members work together in terms of both defence security and individual countries, as well as the EU as a whole. And what should be particularly highlighted when discussing defence and security, right, then often using that cost term, I would never call it that because investing in security can't be a cost, right, it's an necessity to feel safe, so that we can live this normal, so that we may not use that term cost, but investment in security and defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164844	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164845	I agree with you, too, and I don't like talking expense, not only on defence and security, but not on health care, education, and everywhere where you can often talk pay, the cost of this, the cost of that, it's all needs. I just meant this let's say the effectiveness in that part, so investment in certain defence segments where we are better than some other countries, but it normally means that other countries at EU level have such a policy. So here we are, you yourself said part of a package called the EU and NATO, and we have to act accordingly. So this, but I'm listening to some debates on the issue, in the EU area going that way, so in some countries it's been thinking that way, which is why I was very interested in your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164846	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We have already exhausted today's agenda, and we will see each other again tomorrow at 9:30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Decision declaring October 21st "The National Day without Mobiles in Transport". The proposals are from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and from the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Have a good afternoon. Session adjourned at 14.59 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-03-0.u164847	Final proposal of the Law on the validation of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in defence matters, second reading, P.Z. No. 748, the promoter is the Government, and I am voting on the final proposal for that law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 116 "for" and 1 "abstained" and 1 "against" were passed the Law on the confirmation of the agreement of the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in defence issues.
