ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165491	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues here will continue to work and, as announced yesterday, we will first discuss, the first point will be: - The report on the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the laws of the Authority is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 3. The Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section of the regulations. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, Mr Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Remarkable parliamentary representatives and MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by adopting a Regulation supplementing the Law on the Market in Heat Energy, ensures that, before the start of the new heating season, consumers of heat from the category of household that buy heat produced from gas will be in an equal position with respect to final customers of gas from the category of households that directly use gas in the public service obligation. It is essential that the gas supply mechanism for households also applies to heat energy producers or heat suppliers until market mechanisms work in the same way for all final customers. In particular, using the possibility of a Directive on general rules for the internal market in natural gas that Member States may impose on energy gas operators in the general economic interest of public service obligations, which may relate to security including security of supply, regularity, quality and supply price of the marketing gas law adopted in 2018, the right to public service for household customers is granted. By 31 March 2021, the designated public service obligations providers shall be subject to the obligation to provide public services to customers of the category of household which are decided to use this service and to grant public service providers the right to supply gas in the quantities necessary for the supply of households using public service from suppliers on the wholesale gas market. Until that date, the gas wholesaler shall be obliged to supply the gas supplier under regulated conditions under the public service obligation chosen in the section in which they supply gas to customers in the household category. Households that buy heat from gas are not covered by public service. In order to balance the treatment of the same categories of customers and how gas supply is carried out in the general economic interest under regulated conditions, and in order to ensure the safety and regularity of quality and the price of household supply, this supplement of the Law on the heat energy market is proposed. This Regulation extends the public service obligation to the gas supplier in the public service obligation to supply energy operators to the production of heat for households. It shall also impose an additional obligation on the gas supplier on the wholesale gas market to sell gas for such heat generators on the public service obligation under the same conditions as the wholesaler is obliged to sell gas for the purpose of supplying gas to customers in the category of household. In doing so, gas-purchasing producers shall have the right to obtain that gas under regulated conditions by the time the gas market is not fully derivated or until 31 March 2021. The relevant regulation therefore ensured that, before the start of the new heating season, consumers of heat from the category of household that buys heat from gas would be in an equal position to end-users of gas from the category of households that directly use gas in public service obligations. This avoids an increase in the price of thermal energy in order to bring gas prices into line for the production of heat energy with a market price of gas of around 18 and half thousand final customers of the household category and 18% of the final customers of heat energy, which is about 65,000 citizens who use this same energy in this way, which is supplied by the producers of heat energy. If the proposed regulation had not been adopted or the public service obligation had ceased to apply, heat suppliers would have requested the application of new significantly increased tariff items for the production of heat and would have probably changed the whole gas input parameters, and this would have left the gas price to all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165493	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165494	Thank you very much. I'm interested in one elemental question, and this is because this is about a regulation that the government made while the council was at the station, and since this isn't a topic that the government wasn't supposed to be prepared for, or it was known to be corrected, that it could be corrected before, it's not clear to me why it was waiting for the 9th month, which is why we didn't have this in some normal procedure in 5.6 months, and even if it means getting better prepared for, for what you just said about the fact that there's no difference in the way it's going to grow, the price of heating is going to rise regardless of what you said earlier because the whole gas was growing in April of the month, so why did the government take advantage of this possibility, and why didn't it go in the regular procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165495	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165496	Thank you, distinguished representative Maras, the government simply took advantage of this possibility for a short time, and removed the possibility that there might be no imbalance of customers, especially this category of 18 and a half thousand customers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165497	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to the MPs' clubs, the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165498	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the provision of Directive 73/2009 has been defined as allowing Member States to impose a public service obligation on gas energy entities which may concern security, including security of supply, regularity, quality and price of supply, environmental protection, including energy efficiency, renewable energy and climate protection. In this respect, the provisions of the Gas Market Act provide for the right to public service to customers of the category of household and therefore suppliers on the wholesale gas market are obliged to supply all those gas suppliers they choose under regulated conditions and are obliged to provide public service to all final customers of the category of household. However, households producing heat from gas are not covered by this described public service. Therefore, the regulation we have here today aims to ensure that, before the start of the new heating season, customers of the category of household heat produced from gas are in an equal position to final customers of gas from the category of household directly using gas. Without this regulation, the price of heat would be increased by 18 500 final customers of the household category, which makes up 18% of the final customers of heat energy, or 65 000 citizens, and because of that not to happen, we, of course, support this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165499	Thank you very much. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165500	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, citizens who are watching us, today we are talking about a regulation that the government has adopted this year on September 12th, and this is about supplementing the Law on the heat market and what I said I will repeat once again, so the Croatian Parliament is the place where laws are passed and rules are harmonised where for important things that our citizens feel every day in their lives, we have to make a decision here, we need to be up-to-date and ready, the government has to propose, if the government can propose one of the clubs, we can also propose representatives, in other words we have to follow what is happening and we need to allow our people to live as simple as possible. As it seems in practice, we see every day, so our people are in a growing and bigger problem every day, many of them fear the heating season given the increased costs and listen to what Vakula is going to say, they rejoice when a man says it will be a warmer time than it has ever been in the past decades because they know that the heating costs will then be lower and because they know that they will then have the opportunity to live for at least a month or a little less easier than they normally do. On the other hand, when you see that this is such an important topic and when you see that citizens simply read their pensions and salaries to see whether they will at all pay for the heating, incredible non-scheduling and unsatisfactory surprise you when you are aware that the government was not at all ready to correct this Law on the heat market, but was simply sleeping over and finally being brought to, at the government meeting in, in the September month, and it shows you in fact how much the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes care of hundreds of thousands of homes that are heating up on, on gas or on that energy, and how important it is, in fact, that the government of the Republic is to settle this matter in time, to warn people that this procedure is being carried out through HS. I must say, of course, that we will not be against this law, but that this really already overruns every measure, that the government of normal procedures that it can respect is not respected, but that regulations are adopted at the last minute of certain things and that it simply put HS before the final act and this shows one attitude towards both HS and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And believe me, it's no wonder that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia wonders every day that everyone is against him. And against him are pensioners, and against him are nurses, and against him are busy in education, in schools, coalition partners, these, they are all against him, and no one understands him, and against him are some of his parties. So it's terribly difficult for a man, it's been three years, and there's no results, just problems all over the place. And when you see how he treats such a difficult problem and an important problem for Croatian citizens because it doesn't matter to people whether he pays monthly 50 or 100 kuna more heating of his apartment or less. So on that side, it's clear that this is about something that should have been prepared and thought a lot earlier. Then there is no need to be surprised at what he does not understand that Croatian teachers are on strike because they are consciously played by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and because consciously Andrej Plenkovic has priorities that do not correspond to 90 per cent of Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia. So they do not meet the priorities of what he spends money on what Croatian citizens would want or what Croatian citizens think about what money should be spent on. So instead of having 25 years after the war, three thousand new defenders who are likely to turn it into defense pensions tomorrow, we don't invest in teachers and those who raise our children. And I am proud of those who were on strike yesterday, who are going to strike today and who will insist on the end because this kind of behavior and the adoption of this regulation shows that our government is not at all taking care of the citizens and those that should be taken care of, and these are the ones that will have to think about whether they will pay monthly 50 or more kuna for heating for their apartments or for their energy companies. And the question arises, since we had gas collection in April this year, and now we're talking about taking only the relation to pension increases, the government boasts that there are significantly increased pensions and many pensioners who meet me on the road say take these 40, 50 kunas because pensions are still unworthy of life and most of our pensioners don't have a pension of 2.5 thousand kuna. So when we talk about these increases, the gas gathered almost 7% in April this year and now the prime minister says 4% for teachers, teachers, professors, professors in Croatian schools is enough. It shows you total loss of reality and relation to reality, according to the moment in which you live. This shows you that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is acting like Alice in a wonderland, like I fell into a world no one understands. No one understands him, look at every day those communications he sends. And when you have a man like that headed by the government, then no wonder the regulations that cover tens of thousands of our households mean 50 or 100 thousand Croatian citizens don't experience at all and are brought in in 5 to 12. And it's a good thing that someone didn't sleep over because it's possible that people would find themselves in an unfair situation or in an inability to meet certain obligations they would otherwise have. And today, here we are today when we discuss it and I see that the agenda and here again, Vice President of the Parliament, we are asking him in front of the SDP Representatives' Club to put important topics on the agenda. Yesterday, again in the late evenings, we had a theme about a pension system that very few Croatian citizens could follow and today, by interest and by the response of MPs, I see that the session will be very express again and will end before 11 pm. So do something that's not in your best interest for citizens to hear about the problems in the Republic but make it economical, do it so people can participate and see what we're discussing here. And we are discussing today a very important thing, meaning the Law on the Market for Heat Energy, where once again I say it is unacceptable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings it in such a late period and it is inadmissible that this goes past the Parliament because there was no reason. We could discuss it in the 5th, 6th, 7th month. We could do what we did and suggest from the opposition, we don't need a break from 15.7 to 15.9 at all. So to be very clear here to Croatian citizens, it is those who do not want to meet are not in opposition but in power. This is also evident from the fact that we sought a debate on Minister Kujundzic during the 8th month and HDZ avoided it and hid behind the Constitutional Court. So let's cancel the breaks, discuss the problems of the citizens, do everything in our power to make people live better, feel that they have support in MPs in the Croatian Parliament, not that the government of the Republic treats them this unscheduledly, and then our prime minister wonders how everyone is against him and how nothing goes with his hand. And as it ends, we all know, the citizens will assess this mandate that he has done negatively because this proposal and regulation that shows that the de facto has slept through, and that is also what we must mention here is his closest associate, Mr. Coric is the closest associate and personal proposal for several ministerial posts, Mr. Plenkovic. As long as they take care of Croatian citizens, Croatian pensioners, Croatian teachers and teachers, they will take care of them in the next elections. What I want to point out here again, and I think it is this way that the club of representatives warns the government of the SDP, warns the government of the Republic of Croatia that they are finally trading and that they are acting responsibly or that the laws and regulations on which they depend I would say the existence of tens of thousands of our families do not bring about at the last minute that these things are being debated so that they do not run away from this debate. Because I believe it's also about the fear of discussing an increase in energy prices. So people are de facto warming up to wars, so what we have in the Republic of Croatia is a paradox. The most basic of life's heating needs, food all that citizens need, people warm up to war. So now they're gonna be heating up at 10, 11, 12, 1 month next year like it's some special luxury, like it's something that citizens don't have the right to do, and they don't have the certainty that they're going to have a state to provide in the most affordable and cheapest possible way. So this is Croatia in today's and today's times, so in the present time, that's Croatia, which is why hundreds of thousands of our citizens are going to other countries, that is Croatia where Prime Minister Plenkovic deals more that it is not a problem to propose a new holiday. Imagine what Mr. Plenkovic's priority is, it's not heating, it's not gas, it's not teachers, it's not pensioners, it's not pensioners, it's not the ones who need help the most, it's a priority that's going to be a holiday any day. Well, that's forgive me. It's scandalous. And if our citizens won't sanction it in the next presidential election, and after that in the next parliamentary elections, I don't know where our country will lead, and I'm sure it will. Because if it is important to someone who is going to be the holiday date as far as its center of political activation and action, not that people have cheaper heating, that they have bigger pensions, that there is no corruption in the Republic if it is not his priority, but whether it is this day or that day and that it entertains the public and transfers the public to think and conduct discussions and that it is based on key political debates, it is normal that Croatia does not have a bright future on that side. And the sooner we figure it out, the sooner we change it, the better it will be for all of us, and for the citizens who listen to today about having to wait and look forward to what winter will be like, given the conditions in which they live, given the pensioners with two and a few thousand kunas, normal for people to hope, which is the paradox, to look at weather maps, weather forecasts, and hope that winter will be warmer in some way so that they can survive it more easily. Once again I ask you gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, do not play and play with Croatian citizens, do not be sloppy when it comes to the lives of tens of thousands of our citizens, these regulations are not necessary, the procedure of announcement can all be made in legal frameworks and in those frameworks where the Croatian Assembly is sitting. Although once again here in front of the Croatian public, I say that the representatives of the SDP, the SDP neither wanted to take a break over the summer nor think that the break is crucial or we think that at this moment it is even counterproductive, given that people in Croatia deserve a parliament that will work vigorously nonstop on new solutions and new ideas to make people live better. Here is thank you very much, and I hope that we will no longer have such a proposal in the form of a regulation but in the form of normal legal solutions as should be the procedure and therefore there is a Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165501	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, so the first one will be a respected representative of Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165502	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Regulation supplementing the Law on the heat market that the Croatian Government adopted on 12 September 2019 in accordance with its legal powers. In short, this regulation allows all those who heat up heat, and the source of that heat is the gas to buy that heat under the same conditions as those that heat directly onto the gas. I think that's something that should have been done, what the Croatian government did well, in time with the desire to spend about 18,500 as much as we've heard about households and close to 70,000 people who use this energy to allow them to spend this heating season, or that the prices they're going to pay are the same as those that get that gas directly from the system. And here's also to say a few words about some of the things we've heard in the previous presentations, so colleague Maras and all those who are concerned about the forecast, just to tell you the forecast is very good for the next month that I'm happy, not you, but there will be nice weather and sure that we're all lucky that something less will be spent on heating. But it is not exactly something that most Croatian citizens are very concerned about and their lives depend on how you would like to show them here, nor is it in general as bad as you insist on convincing the Croatian public in your presentations. I don't know what you're up to, and after a very happy event today when all of Croatia, at least those I believe in Croatia respect and love, in a good mood after yesterday's victory in the football game, that you are today's parliamentary debate with such black topics and you want to impose a thesis that simply doesn't say that the Croatian government is doing something that should not, it is doing in accordance with the provisions of the law and nothing special has happened, today we are talking about a regulation, as I remember when you were Minister, the government regulations were passed much more often and the Croatian Parliament was passing around. As far as the pause you are saying should be lifted in the Croatian Parliament, it is prescribed by the Constitution and as far as I can see, the SDP would welcome an extended pause because only as far as I see you in front of the SDP, two today present in this assembly when it comes to this as you say about your club too important, and I would expect that in most part you have filled the assembly and come to this debate but not wanting to do more of this, I will once again point out that this regulation goes to the benefit of Croatian citizens, 70 thousand Croatian citizens, and that this Croatian government does not only this regulation but also otherwise seeks to satisfy more Croatian citizens by its own actions and enable them to live in normal conditions and also manage to make it easier for all to manage as much as possible and not to separate one group of citizens from some others because it is precisely possible that we would have to obtain more than one of themselves, and the key that we would not be able to see a significant amount of money, so we would not be able to pay, so much of money, so that the key, so that we would not be able to pay the key money, so that we will not be able to pay the key money, so that the key money, so that we do the key money, so that we do not to pay the key money, so that we do the key money, so that we get the key money, so that we get the key money, so that we get the money, so that we do to get the money to get the money to get the money to stop to get the money to get the money to stop to stop to stop to get the money to get the money to get the money to get the money to get the money to get the money to get the money to get the money to stop the money to stop to stop to stop to stop to stop the money to stop to stop the money to stop the money to stop the money to stop the money to stop the money to stop to stop to stop to stop to stop to stop the money to stop the money to stop the money to stop the money to stop the money to stop to stop to stop to stop the money to stop to stop to stop to stop to stop it to stop to stop to stop to stop to stop to stop it to stop to stop to stop to stop to stop to stop to stop it to stop it to stop it to stop it to stop it to stop the In any case, I think that this regulation has done something good and that it needs to be welcomed and as such supported, and I don't think anything has been done beyond what has been done so far in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165503	Thank you. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So far, we have experienced the incredible insolence of a parliamentary representative to Croatian citizens. The man here said that Croatian citizens do not care about the price of heating, that this is an irrelevant topic completely and offered them a rescue solution. He says it'll be a nice time for the next month, you don't have a problem with people. Here's what HDZ's offering you. Time, the anti-cyclone from Africa will save us, so that's what HDZ and HDZ representatives are playing at, but it's not just offering that solution, it's offering another great comfort, look at the people, we got 3-0 Hungary yesterday, you don't care what you don't have for heating, what you don't have money to support your basic needs, we have 3-0 against Hungary. Shame on you, Mr. Felak, shame on you!
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165505	The answer of the esteemed representative, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165506	Dear Mr Maras, there is nothing to be ashamed of, you may be ashamed of how you behave in this House, and these are ultimately Croatian citizens and have recognised, they gave you a good message in the European Parliament elections when you get what, 1000, 2, these preferential votes as the president of the SDP City Organisation, when you have been convinced that from 7th place on the list you will enter the European Parliament where your President, who obviously doesn't trust you when he put you in that place, so you get these few thousand and from that you can clearly see how many Croatian citizens are holding you, to your thinking and to your point of view of the world. I have said very clearly about the forecast, you have started to play with the forecasts and how Croatian citizens are happy I guess because it will be a good forecast, I know that the point of heating is in the budget of every citizen but surely it is not something crucial that the vast majority of Croatian citizens will evaluate the work of this government as good or bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165507	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165508	Thank you. Dear Mr. Felak, you often answer when it comes to energy, I have one question about the subject itself. So how do you comment on the fact that since the HNS took over the energy sector in these last 5, 6 years, gas companies have charged at one gas meter two gas prices which is a violation of the general conditions for gas and gas tariff systems that brought in HERA? So the price of gas for the household was regulated and it came to be delivered and charged with one PPD form while the price of gas in the same boiler room in Vukovar, so it was working on a large boiler room gas station in Vukovar, on that same boiler room and on the same gas meter was 40% more expensive for kindergartens, schools and health homes, so how to comment on that fact?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165509	The answer of the esteemed representative, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165510	A fellow representative of Sladolev, I thank you for this question but I mean, I'm discussing energy but I'm not so familiar with certain things in the system, so I think it's a question that you should refer to as the Secretary of State or to those to whom the gas suppliers are, and I don't know if it's related to the fact that the HNS has come or a man who is a member of the HNS to some kind of management position in a state firm, I think it's working out some other things, but if something like that happens under the law, there are the institutions of this state that should act in this case, so you're also obliged as a parliamentary representative then to warn. Anyway, I'm saying, I think the question is addressed to the wrong address, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165511	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165512	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't mean to take part in the debate, but when I heard this statement by Mr. Felak that Croatian citizens don't care about the price of heating, that it's not some big issue, that it's not important, that colleagues in the assembly started some worse things in Croatian society this morning after the Croatian team won, so what's the story? Well, we're all glad that Croatia won, but it's not solved the problems of Croatian citizens, we've been here since the morning of these problems, we need to talk about these problems, the government needs to solve them, I don't understand your debate at all. I don't know what the point was, so you argued that the price of heating was not a problem, that after the Croatian national team won no problems in Croatian society and that they should not be discussed, I would ask you to explain it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165513	The answer of the esteemed representative, Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165514	Thank you. Well, you haven't been to the assembly since the beginning, so you haven't heard that argument. Well, anyway, look, I didn't say that housekeeping and this isn't, that it's a nonessential subject, but I said that it's not so important that we should create some kind of a name that everyone will be in trouble if it comes up, if there's a accumulation of gas that is ultimately this regulation and prevented. But one thing to tell you, you were like MOST in two Croatian governments, you had opportunities inside to get involved in solving all the problems of Croatian citizens. You have bravely escaped from both governments and now clearly from the position of opposition you can easily share advice, solutions to resolve something because you do not have to answer or find the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165515	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have debated many times in this Croatian Parliament, but rarely when I have a porch like I have now, because I am speaking to Representative Felak who received 1,200 votes in the last elections, I have received 10 times as much as he is now courageously running away from the assembly, after having celebrated with statements about nice weather and how Croatian citizens have no problem paying for the most basic directors such as heating and showing incredible incompetence which is unfortunately characteristic of our government or HDZ, which at this moment is responsible for the management of Croatia, which manifests itself at all, almost all areas of social life from the climate in society to corruption in the government, to the fact that the cost of living is increasing and higher and higher each day, so these costs are related to the heating and market regulations supplementing the Law on the heat market. So everything that bothers Croatian citizens, HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic does not torture. And they offer simple solutions, everything is great, it will be a nice time, Croatia has won football, that is what they can offer HDZ to Croatian citizens and the answers they give to the problems of Croatian citizens are the only ones. And then once again, I say wonders when everyone feels that injustice and asks for that injustice to be corrected. I say once again, I am proud of 750,000 who signed a referendum to end the shameful reform of the pension system, which has been abolished, I am proud of all those who strike today in schools and yesterday strike everyone in the Republic seeking to correct the injustices against teachers and teachers and I have not taken my children to school and I will support the employees in education until the last minute until they meet the conditions and what they are looking for, as a parent, as a representative, as a citizen of this country. I will also support the pensioners and all those who look at us here today and listen about the fact that the gas in the 4th month of this year has accumulated 7%, and we have the most expensive heating season we've ever had in the Republic of Croatia. Pensioners with pensions of up to 2,500 kuna who are large majority in the Republic of Croatia who have earned and who are unworthy of normal life are terrified of whether they will have and how much they will have for heating. And I have to tell you that I didn't have any excessive need to discuss it further now, but this a little bit upset me, when I see HDZ representatives of HDZ regardless of whether they're marginal, like Mr. Felak or having some more visibility speaking this way, they say in a way that it's great, that Croatian citizens live well, that pensioners have no fear of the heating season because it will be a nice time for the next month. Scandalous statements and I think they need to be fenced, they need to be fenced. I expect, here I have seen a few HDZ deputies here in the assembly, some have raised up and a replica, and I expect to be fenced by Mr. Felak's statements, which I quote, that there is no fear for the heating season, there is good news that the next month will be warm, as a solution, as a solution to the difficult material situation of our pensioners and families, which, at this point, are looking at us. Instead of offering solutions that could help people, they offer unfortunately what they have no influence on and unfortunately what Croatian citizens, of which Croatian citizens have nothing. Once again, here at the end of this debate I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that these important topics will be dealt with, that these important topics will be dealt with in time, I think that my fellow secretary of state has already been on the subject of this law and it could have been defined long before we see how it can be helped by our people, that we don't have easy discussions of HDZs here saying that the pensioners are irrelevant to these messages, it's absolutely such a message, when you tell people that it's great and that time will solve everything, that there will be no heating, that it will be warm, that you send a message to the pensioners and those who hardly live that they are not, that they are not important, that I don't think it's exactly the opposite, because it's the most important thing I's going to talk about today, and that there's not really going to be a lot of people who want to be able to be able to talk about it. If inflation is 2% a year, then look at what it is in 3. is more than 4% and once again, hold on people, we'll all give you support, I'm skeptical of the CNS, believe that they will endure and that they will get out of the coalition unless the Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ gives up, but I think it should be sustained, this should be fought, and it should be returned to teachers and teachers that I'm not embarrassed to talk to them sometimes when I see how low their wages are, as much as 35.g. The training before retirement must think about this regulation and how much heating costs will be collected below the average salary of our teachers and teachers before retirement, it is a shame and it should be fought against, and the HDZ needs to be put up for it, and no subject is less important, nor is it important that yesterday Croatia got 3 or 5:0, we were all happy about it, but unfortunately today we woke up in Plenkovic's Republic, in the Republic of Croatia from which people emigrate, over 100 and some thousand people only for the last year, in the term of nearly 200,000 people, disaster, don't please please please please please Mr. Felak in this way insult us and not only here, but all those who look at us today on HRT, who listen to what I'm saying, disaster, let's try to fight for these people, and not talk about things like we live in a fairy country, and not in Plenkovic's RH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165517	Thank you very much. I don't know, I didn't realize if it was a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165518	Well, Mr. Vice President's Rules of Procedure got hurt because a colleague named Maras was injured. In 238, insulting MPs by calling one representative a marginal representative in HS. All MPs in HS are worth the same thing, worth 1 out of 151 and me and my colleague Maras and you, all worth the same and it's totally inappropriate in an HS agent called a marginal agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165519	So, I estimate that the Rules of Procedure, although I fully agree with you, fully agree with you, and I think it's up to each of the MPs not to insult the other MPs, but it's not by, I estimate that he hasn't been hurt by the Rules of Procedure. Let's go, please nice? With what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165520	So, about your reaction to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or whether the Rules of Procedure are injured or not. Namely, calling someone a marginal agent is a rhetorical figure like...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165521	My colleague, my colleague, my colleague Bauk, come on, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165522	...g. To the blacksmith to influence politics as a citizen of Finland, it's the same... In that sense. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165523	...that you know very well, okay? Next time you'll get a warning if you start talking to me like that. Uh, don't throw it out of your buddy Maras bench, of course you can't talk by getting up and talking and you know it well, if you don't know, read it to yourself after all these years of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to the replicas, he's the first respected representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165524	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, therefore I would justify this debate from Mr. Felak in today's south, but I will address you and your debate, and this is about the real problems of the citizens, especially the city of Zagreb. We recently had a HERA report where Mr Hera found that we have average energy prices or gas prices in the Republic of Croatia, but he did not say that we are at the bottom of the EU, so it is the secession of Croatian reality. And in Zagreb it's a special story because City gas station Zagreb has a huge profit of about 100 million kuna a year, and citizens of Zagreb don't see it at their gas prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165525	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165526	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, many things in Croatia can be measured with the EU, and they are usually prices of both energy and food and standards and everything else. Salaries and pensions, unfortunately not. So it would be great to have these energy prices in Zagreb if we had our people pensions like they have in Germany or wages like they have in Austria. Croatia, unfortunately, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, does not take care of it at all, and especially this Zagreb Faker Bandic does not take care of it at all. This is also seen in this 17% proposal for teachers in the classroom that he remembered now as if the problem had not existed long ago. And he'll be, he won't be the last to leave the coalition... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165527	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165528	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear Representative Maras. I agree that an increase in the price of heating will affect some citizens, especially those who live in colder parts, and therefore it is not good or popular to mention the weather forecast. And it may not be popular to mention that HDZ is impertinent. What is SDP like in Rijeka where it is warm when the river first raised the heat and when a major parting affair began in Rijeka? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165529	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165530	Thank you very much. Mr. Kirin, I'm glad to hear that someone wouldn't be offended, I said marginal agent because I believe that in the Croatian Parliament it's really marginal that people don't think it's important in HDZ, and now you've confirmed me. So Mr. Felak is marginal on that side because he is one of the few MPs in the Parliament who thinks that Croatian citizens are being saved if a month is a nice time. So on that side is to express the marginal and I believe that there are no those people in HDZ who think that way. And it is good that you have also fenced yourself from Mr. Felak because this is one of the most bizarre statements I have ever heard in the Croatian Parliament. I don't know if they're still following these YouTubes to put this statement on, they'll probably get a lot of clicks. The man said we're lucky because the next month will be warm, so it doesn't matter what the price of heating is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165531	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165532	Your Honor, Reverend Maras, I deeply apologize for having dared to replicate and speak at all about your presentation because apparently we marginalists in this House don't have that right by you. But I'll tell you that you've told a lot of lies here, so you've misquoted me because you've just mentioned the weather, Mr. Vakul, and you've also said that everyone prays for a nice time. So I was telling you that looking at the forecast on AccuWether in the next month will really be a nice time, unfortunately for you, and fortunately for us, I believe all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, on your discussion of this catastrophic theory that you once said 20 times the word disaster in your explanation, I don't think you should say that all citizens who watch and listen to this House can judge the weight of your words and how much you mean in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165533	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165534	Thank you very much. Mr. Felak, don't apologize to me. There's nothing to apologize to me. Say sorry to Croatian citizens for what you said and how you perform and for the care you give them. You don't have to apologize to me and I don't have a problem with you assessing me whether my statement is good, bad, that I'm like this or something, that I've won so many or so votes in the election. So I usually get 10 and more thousands in the election when I do, so that's a little more than 1200 as much as you get, and that doesn't matter at all in this situation right now. It is important to say that Croatian citizens deserve representatives who take care of them, who will not talk about what the price is but what time will be. And on the other hand, it's a great situation in Croatia because we won Hungary in football yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165535	Thank you very much. ... I'm closing the debate and we'll vote on this when the conditions are met. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165536	Report on a Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 96 for and 9 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165537	The next item to which we move will be: - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2018 The applicant is the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures under Article 18. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. President-in-Office of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Ms. Maja Kuhar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165538	Thank you. Here, esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament before you is the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2018. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is an independent and independent state body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement, concessioning and selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects. The National Commission for its work means it is responsible for the Croatian Assembly and it submits an annual report on the work. In front of you is the report on the work of the State Commission for 2018, which contains data on financial operations, development of human potential, anti-corruption action of the State Commission and of course statistical indicators of the work of the State Commission in the proceedings itself. The report contains data on the most frequent reasons for making complaints and the most frequent irregularities identified by the State Commission in the appeal procedures, as well as a separate analysis of the appeal procedures relating to cases of procurement financed from EU funds. The key part of this report is an assessment of the situation in legal protection and in public procurement in general, and this assessment of the situation is actually referred to the experience on the application of the 2016 Public Procurement Act. In view of their importance and the fact that they have a significant impact on public procurement procedures in the report, certain institutions under the Public Procurement Act are also analysed, such as planning in the public procurement system and developing the most economically favourable offer as a selection criteria. In addition, in the report, we also referred briefly to the development and improvement of the public procurement system through the Department for Public Procurement Policy of the Ministry of Economy, which is the holder of the role of administrative oversight of the implementation of procurement procedures and the institution of education activities in the public procurement system. It is the administrative supervision and education of system participants, especially public contracting authorities according to the assessment of the State Commission, and in line with the recommendations of the European Commission on the necessity and professionalisation of public contracting authorities are the most important step in further developing the procurement system in the Republic of Croatia. As from 1 January 2018, by way of effect of the Regulation on electronic complaints in public procurement, economic operators have the possibility to make complaints through interrelated information systems of the State Commission and an electronic public procurement advertiser. The application of the electronic complaint has led to certain positive effects in terms of reducing decision-making deadlines, which is also referred to and detailedly analysed in the 2018 report. In the context of the anti-corruption action, the State Commission was an active participant in the development and implementation of the anti-corruption strategy and the operator of the activities in the accompanying action plan. Also in 2018, work was continued to strengthen cooperation with the appeal authorities in other Member States, which contributed significantly to participation in the expert group of public procurement audit bodies at EU level where the state commission was actually one of the most prominent members. In the part relating to the financial operations of the State Commission in 2018, it should be pointed out that, from the basis of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure, it is paid to the State budget amounting to more than 15 million kuna, representing almost 5 million kuna more than the funds planned for the work of the State Commission itself for the same year. In addition, a slight drop in budget revenue was observed on this basis compared to 2017 mainly for the purpose of applying the new law which in one part reduced the amount of compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure. As regards the basic statistical indicators in 2018, the state commission was in operation 1261, which represents a 25% increase compared to the number of complaints in 2017. The cause of this increase can be attributed to the logical consequence of the application of the new Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2017, which means that only in 2018 after a certain level of legal certainty had been established and a slight increase of 25%, in fact a significant increase in the number of complaints made before the State Commission. As regards the duration of the appeal proceedings itself, during 2018 the appeal procedure was on average 34 days, counting from the receipt of the complaint with the State Commission until the decision was taken, and the average time of the settlement of the case from the completion of the file of the appeal procedure until the decision was taken is 14 days. So in 2017, there was a reduction in the average length of the appeal procedure by 2 days despite an increase of 25% in the number of complaints received by the state commission. As I have already mentioned, and I have also mentioned the possibility of an electronic statement of appeal, it should be pointed out, in particular, that what is stated in the report itself, that the statement or the possibility of making an electronic complaint led to a reduction in the time limits of resolution, the average time limits for resolving the case in such appeal proceedings, so that the report shows that in the procedures in which the electronic complaint was made, the appeal procedure lasted for an average of 28 days instead of 34 days from the submission of the complaint until the decision was taken, and that the same appeal procedure also lasted an average of 11 days instead of 14 days from the date of completion of the file of the appeal case to the decision of the State Commission. In 2018, it means more than 28% of the appeal cases were started by making an electronic complaint complaint in the form of an electronic complaint. Since complaints are often heard in public regarding the length of proceedings, the appeal procedures before the state commission should be pointed out that according to the deadlines for resolving appeal cases, the state commission has been among the fastest such bodies in Europe in recent years. The structure, as regards the structure itself, the decision of the state commission during 2018 very briefly, means the total number of cases of complaints was adopted as established in 51.2% of cases representing a slight decline compared to last year, the complaint was rejected in 26.5% of cases representing a slight increase of 4%, while the complaint was rejected due to a lack of procedural assumptions in almost 16% of cases. In 2018, the trend of increasing the number of complaints on the procurement documentation of 29.9% was continued, which was the effect of applying the new Public Procurement Act and reducing the amount of compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure, which was, in fact, the legislator's intensities motivated by the desire to provide a more quality basis for the implementation of the procurement procedures in the subsequent stages of the procedure. This report also includes parts relating to judicial protection, statistics on the duration of administrative disputes on the right to public procurement and the structure of decisions of administrative courts themselves. Starting in 2018. The High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia has become responsible for deciding on complaints against the State Commission for the control of public procurement proceedings since the High Administrative Court has initiated a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Public Procurement Act in that part after the first action was brought before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, in all cases it has also laid down a delay in the proceedings pending the decision of the Constitutional Court. Since the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia means only in February 2019. It was only then that the High Administrative Court began the dispatch and delivery of decisions relating to this particular reporting period. So, in 2018, The second-degree legal protection has been stalled since the High Administrative Court has stalled the case against decisions of the State Commission, so we will have in fact a real picture of that second-degree legal protection only in the 2019 report. In 2017, 72 administrative disputes were launched against decisions by the state commission, which means that 7% is approximately, meaning 7% of decisions by the state commission disputed before administrative courts. The state commission also adopted 148 decisions by administrative courts and it can be said that the structures of these decisions are also evident that decisions by the state commission have been confirmed in a high percentage of 86% of the cases. With regard to the state commission itself, it should be pointed out that the basis of the effectiveness of the work of the state commission represents the continuity of human resources in high complexity professional affairs, which enables the development of expertise and knowledge, leading to the reduction of decision-making deadlines, greater efficiency and quality of decisions. The State Commission, as a quasi judicial authority and public procurement authority, is the creator of legal practice and its decisions, it must be noted, has a significant impact on the implementation of public procurement procedures, not only directly by making decisions, but also indirectly in such a way that its decisions are a source of knowledge in the conduct of procedures to which all the participants rely. For this reason, the State Commission is also in 2018. continued with its continued investment in improving and improving the level of knowledge of its professionals through the training of officials on the post-graduate programmes of the University of Torggata in Rome, as well as in the exchange of experiences with other complaint bodies in the EU and cooperation with the European Commission and its professional services. The register of appeal cases, decisions by the State Commission and the conclusions on legal considerations were publicly published in real time on the pages of the State Commission, leading to predictability of legal protection and greater availability of the work of the institution. All the above contributes largely to the legal certainty and transparency of the entire public procurement system. During 2018 The state commission marked the 15th anniversary of work marked by an international conference that brought together renowned experts in the field of public procurement from the Republic of Croatia and abroad, as well as representatives of the academic community. By organising such an expert meeting, the state commission has undoubtedly contributed to the development and better understanding of both the legal, public procurement rights and the work of the state commission in the general public. From its draft to today, the state commission has also developed as an institution and as an authority in the area of public procurement in an effort to always focus on 3 basic objectives, transparency, efficiency and independence. The state commission enjoys high reputation in the Croatian general and professional public, as well as in the European Commission institutions, and above all in terms of efficiency and legal consistency. Comparative indicators in legal protection in the EU Member States, the European Commission is highly ranking the effects of legal protection in the Republic of Croatia. I call on you, therefore, to support the report on the work of the State Commission for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165539	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165540	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Kuhar, you mentioned the anti-corruption role of your commission, what I want to ask you here, tell me what the role of the Anti-Corruption Commission is if we have a public procurement in Zagreb related to the construction of a Slovenian cabler worth nearly 500 million kuna, and budget money is not secured in, in the budget of the City of Zagreb and the mayor's dead cold signature of such a contract, the law does not foresee that this is an important violation of the public procurement procedure, no one reacts, the mayor assumes a commitment on behalf of the city without the consent of the assembly and says that money will be secured in the budget of rebalans. Well, this is the most corrupt behavior possible, why can't you stop such behaviours that shift the burden of funding projects done by the City of Zagreb and that are too high and expensive on the back of citizens that the assembly didn't say a word about it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165541	The answer of the respected state, President of the State Commission, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165542	Yes, here it is, obviously, about the procedure that was in 2018, this report is a principle report that refers to all the procedures that were carried out then. I wouldn't want to go into commenting now on some procedure which, which then happened, means if we can focus on these, on these items that are, then the report on the work of the State Commission for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165543	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165544	Thank you, Mr. President. So, Your Honor, ma'am. Kuhar, I also have a question about Zagreb, so what are your experiences regarding public procurement and public procurement complaints in the City of Zagreb? This object I'm about to show isn't probably about last year, it's about the present one. So, this is a garbage can paid by the citizens of Zagreb 3800 kn, so I am not an aesthetic expert on garbage cans, so I think that it is not very aesthetically beautiful but I am more concerned here with the price paid by the citizens of the city of Zagreb. So, of course, there were only one bidder, so one who offered that price, these cans in Zagreb have thousands, now imagine how many of these citizens of Zagreb paid for these cans but it's not just garbage cans, it's about columns and other things that are overpaid in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165545	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165546	Thank you, Vice President. So I think the problem with public procurement is the public procurement of small value. In 2017, it amounted to around 7 billion kunas of our money spent on direct contracts, we are all aware that at these lower levels these local sheriffs share these public procurement procedures in a few small amounts, and thus bargaining with their friends acquaintances and if we could control it, it would be about 2% of GDP. Slovakia has a good model, it has introduced an e-registration of these procedures of less value, up to 1000 euros must be over 1,000 euros, everything must be put into the e-registration and perhaps we could at least control that process a little, so here, I suggest you suggest you propose to the government and if not, then we here from the Parliament will go with that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165547	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165548	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. President-in-Office. The cook. So, the effectiveness of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control is definitely and its work has been praised as public, transparent and independent and recognised by the EU institutions, when you enter their websites, they themselves write as in one example in the EU with the right. But in public, there's still one big idea of corruption related to public procurement, not realizing that you're working on a public procurement complaint. However, you are incometing about 50% of the resources needed to work. Is it possible to reroute a portion of these funds for certain publications, brochures or something to change this social awareness and perception of corruption through public procurement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165549	And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165550	Thank you very much. Your Honor, ma'am. The cook with his associates, I have been expecting for several years that in the public procurement commission's report, at least someone will mention the problem of professional complainants. Whether they exist in Croatia or not. Entrepreneurs claim to exist. If there is a problem, then this report simply needs to be mentioned for a simple reason for this House to change the law. Let's take one last example around the Peljega Bridge. As far as this competition is concerned, whether or not there is, I will not say that anyone who complains has no right to complain, etc., but to stop most projects financed from the budget of units of local and regional self-government and the state budget just because someone thinks they should get something and drag that story out for a few years, especially when it comes to projects financed from the EU, I think you simply have to mention it in your report if there is one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165551	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165552	So, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult exactly on the problem of public procurement and that's the problem of public procurement of small value, as I said, it was 7 billion kunas of public money in 2017, so citizens' money, procedures, so that local sheriffs can directly bargain with their acquaintances and friends. MOST has a solution, we propose a Slovak model where we would have an e-registration of these procedures, i.e. these public acquisitions of less than 100 euros. Imagine if some jobs were to split into a dozen lower-value procedures, that would mean that some local sheriff had to put that into the e-registration register 10 times. It would be more and more accessible, more transparent, reduce the possibility of corruption, and here we are asking the commission, from the president to propose it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and also means that if this does not happen, that proposal from the Government, then we are prepared, or from the Most, to propose it. So this is about 2% of the GDP that goes through our hands, that's out of control, that's being negotiated directly by a contract and there's a huge space for corruption. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165553	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelkovac also raised her hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165554	Thank you very much, Vice President. The HDZ Club is also looking for a break to point out once again with the HDZ representatives present here that public procurement works according to the law, and that in public procurement procedures, especially small values, there are no malfeasances especially in local self-government units, everything has to be recorded, procedures have to be recorded, there are special records, it's being published, that I don't say that every year the audit especially combs the procedures and records of public procurement, everything has to be published transparently, obviously by colleagues from the Most who also sought a break must be agreed with themselves because I see that other representatives are not even there, I don't know who they will consult with in their club, and apparently there is a complex of what was never elected as local leader, so there is no knowledge of how public procurement in local self-government, and also in other public administration bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165555	You've brought up your colleague Grumo's breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165556	The Rules of Procedure of 238, not being true, have been injured. I was chosen. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...for the Deputy Mayor and I am familiar with everything and... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165557	I'm giving you another warning. Of course I'll take a break. I'll see you at 11:00 again. MEETING IN 10.48 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165558	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165559	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Presidents of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure in 2018 will support the HDZ Club. According to Article 10. The Law on the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedures The State Commission is obliged to submit its work report to the Croatian Parliament once a year. I would point out once again that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure is an independent and independent body responsible for resolving complaints and in public procurement and concession procedures and procedures for selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects. It is based on the European concept as a quasi state body. However, the experience of the State Commission for the control of the procurement process is extremely important to all of us, and I think that in this assembly we should be far more able to see what these problems are in the public procurement system that we can solve new legal proposals or I don't know the Government by its regulations or only those who work on public procurement to make this system as rational, transparent as possible and to have as few items every year. It is particularly good because these decisions are made in appeal proceedings before the State Commission, are publicly published on the websites, which certainly helps in transparency and goes in favour of anti-corruption. It is commendable that this report also makes legal practice publicly available, which makes the legal protection process predictable. The delivery of a decision by public publication on the website also makes significant financial savings. What I would pay particular attention to today is the use of EU funds and complaints in these procedures and public procurement that are located and are coming to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Since Croatia's entry into the EU, it has been more intensive to use European structural and investment funds. The subjects of these public procurements financed by the eu funds are reported for the first time in the legal protection proceedings in 2014. In 2018, their number is 130 procedures in which 184 decisions have been taken, worth more than 6 billion kuna. The total number of public procurement procedures first published in 2018 is 11.847, and of which 1257 procedures are related to funding from EU funds. It means that around 10% of the public procurement procedures published in the Republic of Croatia relate to those projects financed from EU funds, and again 10% of all these projects and all these public procurements come to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which means that there are complaints about these cases. The duration of the appeal proceedings financed by EU funds can be seen from the report and from 14 days from completion to decision-making, 25 days from the regulation of the complaint to the decision-making process and 34 from the application to the decision-making process. When compared to the duration of the appeal procedure for all cases, it means now not only those relating to eu funds, financed from funds from eu funds, but all other public procurements again see that the average time from the receipt of the complaint to the publication of the decision is 34 days, and the average time from the date of completion of the appeal case to the decision of 14 days. I think that all together, and by doing so, the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure should give an even greater emphasis and priority on these projects because we are all called together if the use of EU funds is not at the level at which we would like to, so we now enter 2020 we know that we have to withdraw all resources by 2023 and we all have to have the same goal. We are aware of the fact that these are extremely demanding procedures, more complex, that there is a much greater need for caution, but here is a request from this pay phone to give these projects an even greater importance and priority, of course to the expense of quality. There are strong improvements in criticism that there are still problems and some indetermination leading to administrative procedures, delays and the like, but through these very reports, we should all see what points we all have to give more attention to together. The use of European funds is related to time-limits, there is a high assessment of the value of purchases, extremely complex procedures, extensive and complex documentation in the process, usually involving consortiums with economic operators from EU Member States and public procurement procedures are under the supervision of the EU and after completing them according to criteria different from those in domestic legislation and with the possibility of revoking funds. There has also been increased involvement of expert advisors, including lawyers in public procurement procedures, which testifys at an increasing professionalisation and high level of expertise. So in 2018, we have complainants who only had 27 complaints in that year. This is what my colleague Schuker mentioned earlier, indeed there are companies that are exclusively involved in filing complaints and their complaints are very good quality made and here we have only one complainant who has in 2018 even 27 complaints filed. The Republic of Croatia has now reached an average of EU funds, and we are now ranked with Germany and Slovakia, but we still cannot be too satisfied and we still have to work very hard. Last year, we were below the EU average at 52% last year, while this year the European average is 77% and the Republic of Croatia has agreed 78%. One of the reasons is that money delays in accounts are in the public procurement process where complaints about the implementation of the process slow down projects. That's right, it says in the report that we received this week from Brussels, so here's a request that the State Commission for the Control of the Public Purchase Procedure make its contribution to make that time as brief as possible. The State Commission consists of 9 members, we have 34 employees, although 48 jobs are foreseen by the regulation. It is important to note that the complexity of the activities of this body is constantly and significantly increasing as is the condition of public procurement precisely financed from the European Structural and Investment Funds, which is increasingly affecting the need for application and international law in the appeal procedure, so there is a continuing need to strengthen administrative capacity, we can see that it is planned and spent on the salaries of 7.5 million kuna, for the material costs of 2 million kuna, of which 36% of the funds have been spent on renting space, all of which has been allocated from the state budget, but at the same time, it should be said that more funds have been agreed on the basis of compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure and administrative fees, and thus 15 million kuna in the State budget in 2018. If we compare to earlier years in 2016 we had even more, as much as 21 million kunas. The number of complaints received in 2018 was 1170 cases, of which 787 were on the selection decision, while 345 were on the announcement and documentation for the competition, which is much more than before. It can be seen that on December 31st 156 cases remain unsolved, but it is mainly those items that were received in December. The process of adoption of the appeal has increased, namely now it is over 51%, at most 305 decisions we have on the selection that should have been annulled, while e.g. No decision on the cancellation of the public procurement contract or framework agreement has been taken. The number of complaints received again precedes HEP, there are as many as 43, but the larger problem of those institutions whose number of complaints received is higher compared to the total number of procedures resolved by complaints. We have an example. the case that even 100% of the complaints that have been resolved and adopted, such as at HZZ from Zagreb. 2016 A new Public Procurement Act has been adopted, and the State Commission has, under its official duty, looked after certain procedural and particularly significant injuries and reacted, and thus in 2018, established the existence of such infringements in 76 decisions and this shows a reduction in the number of decisions which determines the significant injury. The possibility of complaints being submitted by electronic means, which has been decided by more than 28% of the complainants and which says that this possibility has been accepted relatively quickly, however, has already been found to be numerous manipulations, perhaps even more, while the time of such a procedure is shorter and in six days. The law on public procurement also allows for the launch of a administrative dispute against the decision of the state commission and this hasty nature, there should also be said one particularity, namely such administrative action was brought in 2018 and 100, which is 7% of the total decisions. However, in 2017, The High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia became competent to decide in the first degree. As the Court of First Instance in 2017 initiated before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the procedure in all cases also laid down a delay in the proceedings pending the decision of the Constitutional Court. Since the Constitutional Court in 2019 made a decision rejecting the request in these cases, it will be more securely written then in the 2019 report. The adoption of the new Public Procurement Act, which came into force in early 2017, sought to improve to some extent everything the Commission has proposed and based on experience based on analysis of the shortcomings and recommendations contained among others and in previous reports by the State Commission. And in this report we have and are listed the most frequent irregularities, specific errors, most often the complaints, regardless of what is 2.g. We have, just over 2 years, been using this Public Procurement Act, I believe that if the state Commission has new concrete proposals which, of course, do not conflict with the regulations and directives of the EU, that the Ministry of Economy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and thus this HS, will adopt those amendments that could lead to the acceleration of the process, rationalisation and transparency of the whole process, here I would point out once again that it is of great importance for us to address the cases relating to EU funding projects, thereby asking these projects to give priority to these projects as well. In any case, the HDZ Club will support this annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165560	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165561	Thank you, dear colleagues and fellow representatives, colleagues from the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, here at first to say a few words about the Commission itself and about the report we received for 2018, which was signed by President Goran Matesic, who is not here, of course, because there has been a change at the head of the commission and we are now discussing a report on the past period where his colleague was president, but for the sake of continuity it is normal that, now, a new, new head, the new president of the body. What I can say in the beginning is about an area that is very important, meaning 6 billion kunas were controlled in these procedures, it is about a body that should prevent certain corrupt behaviours that unfortunately exist in public procurement, and even the law that we have passed I would say does not fully remove the possibility that corruption should be acted not only in the sense that it pleases someone, but it is corrupting action and illegal action. And if I say what I have to admit here that I was a little shocked by the replica of a colleague from the commission that one purchase of nearly 500 million kuna was made, and that the law that it is defined means that funds must be secured in the budgets or projections, means such information, I expect as an agent that people who are engaged in public procurement and the body that controls it reacts according to official duty and that it says that it is advocating whether something is ok or not here in the parliamentary debate is very simply possible. I call once again on Mrs. Kuhar to tell me whether it is normal for the City of Zagreb to open a public tender, this one to do a job and contracts a job of 500 million kuna, and that the money in the city budget is not planned, neither in 2019 nor in '20. when the wire should be finished. So it's about the cable car, it's about that, and I'm going to talk about it in my debate, we have a project in the City of Zagreb that, of course, the Zagrebers are eager to wait, so after 12, 13 years we want to have the opportunity to go to Medvednica, as it was 50 years before that, it's a wire, but our mayor uses it to satisfy one non-transparent business and some private interests. We have twice as expensive a cable car as we should have, and in the end, it will either through the budget or through the price of a ticket to pay for the Zagreb decades. And then I say here in the Croatian Parliament, in front of all of you, in front of the Croatian public that no money has been planned in the budget, the law defines it, and Mrs. Kuhar, who is the head of that body, has instructed me to discuss this public procurement procedure that is in this report, although this procedure was carried out in 2018, I will also say that it is not suspicious to the public procurement commission people that the complaints they have received refer to certain things that are not quite normal and transparent because these complaints show that the works have been hired by a certain mechanism which was not even a registered firm, instead of having its own mechanism, to engage from those who can do so, it goes from individual people meaning everything in that supply, as it would be said. And that would be talked about for days, but what I expect in principle to be told here by the representative of the commission, the president, is it acceptable to sign a public procurement contract for a million, 10, 100, 400 or 500 in this case without the funds being secured and what the commission thinks about the way public procurement is conducted in the City of Zagreb and spending budget money and borrowing the citizens of the City of Zagreb and putting before the final act of this city assembly. And I don't expect an answer that's not an important part of the procurement process, so the commission doesn't control it on official duty. If so, then choose to propose to amend the law on this or initiate and through the Ministry of Economy to change it because it is the gentleman's dissuasion of the will of citizens and the placing of executive bodies or representative bodies before the final act and it must not be done. So, I expect a colleague's answer during this debate and to state that the City of Zagreb has signed a contract worth hundreds of millions of kuna, and that the money planned in the city budget or projections for the future period is gone. So that money's gone, the mayor's answer was that the rebalances will solve the situation. And now that we're going concretely on this report and on what's written in it, what I'm drawing as a conclusion means primarily I don't have the impression that some of them are just coming out to report because there are certain freaks that you have to pay in order to even complain and they're not small. So it's ranging from 5,000 kuna for the least of the procedures and up to 100,000 kuna for the value of getting more than 60 million kuna. So no one will unless they think they're right to pay 50 or 30 thousand kuna and then wait for what happens and end up spending that money for nothing. This is also shown in a relatively high percentage of the complaints adopted, which suggests, of course, the problematic behaviour of certain institutions. So when you look at these 60 institutions that have had 5 and more complaints about certain of their public procurement procedures, I mean, it may be a coincidence but in all these institutions, responsibility is borne by the ruling party or most of them, there is something and the HNS is a little bit but when you look at all 60, it's amazing that non-transparency happens most under the auspices of HDZ. So 60 institutions and I couldn't find one that wasn't from the ruling coalition. There is, of course, the city of Zagreb as one of those institutions that has even the most resolved complaints, meaning 72 of which are adopted 27 which tells you in itself, regardless of how many public procurement procedures there are, it tells you in itself where and how things don't work, in which the institution doesn't understand things. HEP which also dominates not only as one company, there are several HEP companies, meaning HEP distribution system operator or HEP production that also have very many procedures and what is even worse, even 71% of the complaints adopted. And when a man put it like this at first glance, you can see that the biggest problem is big state-owned companies where it's politically probably distributed who's going to do what, in HEP I had a lot of anonymous letters, even some of them I passed on to see what it was about and some are signed with suspicions of non-transparent work. So all these 60 companies I said, had responsibility, had people from the ruling coalition, couldn't find a county or owned by a county where the current opposition was in power or where it could be said that there was someone else who wasn't from the ruling coalition of Andrej Plenkovic. The complainants and what a colleague said earlier from HDZ, that there are professionals, I see several companies that, I think, people complain, no, obviously appear to be very successful, but I see a very high performance of some, meaning Siemens, Shimatzu and Croatia insurance others complain and there are a large number of complaints that pass them by or which are successful, and it suggests where public procurement procedures are problematic, according to what I see from this, it is or in health care, meaning of these first 22, there are at least 6.7 companies that report to tenders in health, means medicines and equipment. It also tells you where the problem is and where the source of potential corruption is. So how to get equipment, how to push certain bidders, etc. And the insurance that's also here dominates several companies that have complained. So, I would like to see someone, perhaps the State Audit, review these procedures in the field of health and education in both the ministry and hospitals because we see that there are many of those who have a lot of complaints and who have a lot of complaints, just in general hospitals or clinical hospitals in the cities of Zagreb, Rijeka and other cities are clinical hospitals. So it clearly shows areas where corruption can potentially be the most corrupt and who is responsible for those areas or whose greatest responsibility lies. As for the speed of work, we do not have any objection, I think that these deadlines are due to the amount of work that is appropriate, on the other hand, as regards the number of complaints that go through the administrative procedure in the administrative court, it is good that it falls from year to year and as regards the number of administrative procedures, and as far as the proceedings are being taken, it is less and less from year to year, but there is still a good thing that it exists, that the number is smaller, means that the decisions of the state commission are more correct or that the courts do not correct their decisions, of course it is never 100% possible to achieve because there is always someone can be wrong and ultimately, the court is there as a control body and that will ultimately make a final decision, but the trends are satisfactory as to me as well as the technical work of the state commission. As for the completion of the law, or to try to identify what are the biggest problems and areas at the point of corruption that may be happening in the public procurement system, this commission unfortunately does not work enough for me and when it comes to the problem, it would have to be loud and clear and public not only to use its role in the proceedings, to make solutions. I don't see any problem with that. The cook takes his position in public and some public action tries to improve the entire system and point out potential problems in the legal solutions themselves because if you see that something in the law is not ok, if you see someone knowingly violates it, and once again I will say, the mayor of Zagreb has knowingly signed knowing that there is no money planned in the budget contract or in the projections of the budget, a contract for the Sljemen cabler that we will pay from the budget and through the price of the map for decades, then he has the right to react even if in the Assembly here he says that it is wrong and it is already a kind of reaction. If silenced, such behaviour is tolerated and in some ways sends a very wrong message to Croatian citizens and to all those involved in the public procurement process, which is that they can break the law and they don't care, that nobody will even mention it, let alone that they will deal with it seriously. So here, we will support the report by hoping that in the future things in these areas that I just pointed out will improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165562	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Next debate on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, dear colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165563	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues from the procurement commission, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure for 2018. When you have a report like this, then you should always look at it in the context of the previous ones, you should see what shifts are made because it's about a commission that was founded in 2003, so this report is about the results of 15 years of commission work, and there you should see whether any shifts have been made, whether things that are going on are better, how the commission works and in this context when we evaluate this report, we will support it at the GLAS club. So it's about the commission, it's about who has the quasi of fate, of course, it's an independent and independent body. It is the primary task of protecting competition and the efficient spending of public funds and what is important after 15 years of work of the Commission, that we also see through this report its work through three elements. One element is transparency, the other is efficiency and the third element is independence. When we talk about transparency, it's what all institutions really show one progress but not enough and it's about working to see everything on the web pages, that you can see the results of that work, and in that sense you really see one particular progress. When we talk about efficiency, when we compare it to some other reports that have been in the past years and when you see in the past years, it's always objects somewhere around 1,000, some years something more, some years something less, and it's actually seen that the Commission's work is actually more effective and that's good. Of course we'd like it to be even faster, of course we'd like solutions to be made even faster, of course we'd like the number of cases that the commission is annulling to be reduced, but if you see that there's some progress, that there are elements there, it's just as much to be appreciated. And now we have that independence. We always question this independence, but let's kind of look at it in the context that we really need to make it possible for the commission to work independently. When you look at all these tables, you see that most of the cases were in the city of Zagreb when it comes to public procurement, you see that the city of Zagreb had so many complaints and how many complaints were resolved, or how many complaints were accepted, about 35%, in HEP it is 75% and it is alarming. It's just as good-looking as this plate with the so-called so-called. So you can see that this first professional complainant has 27 complaints, so it's someone who's absolutely professionally involved and that's something that might be convenient from this report for some other bodies to deal with the company's work and to see what that company is actually dealing with, how many employees it has. I happen to know who it's about. How many employees she has, what she deals with, is whether those jobs she's been working on, she hasn't worked at all, because we simply have professional complainants and there's a very clear answer to why they do it. However, what I find interesting in this report and what I think should be one of the elements of the debate, which are well-listed specific errors of the client. It's something that bodies that are really in the process of public procurement and everything else, it's something that would be convenient to take care of, it's something that we have to take care of through the amendment of the law, it's something that the heads of those bodies need to take care of to see what it is, so I'd let me and a little debate about it. He says a vague and contradictory procurement file. Imagine if you get vague and contradictory procurement documentation, what the result might be. Equally, vague and contradictory. Then distortion of integrity and clarity of documentation on the acquisition of numerous changes and explanations. Indeed, if you go into public procurement and then you have at least 4 or 5 explanations or changes, of course no one knows what is in force anymore. It's like that story when you have the law so you change it every year and at the end of the day one consolidated text of the law no one knows where it is or what it is. Then, the unjustified restriction of competition by prescribing detailed technical specifications. That's what we have a chance to see in public. When someone gets into the supply, I don't know, cars are always very interesting, then I guess the only thing in the paperwork doesn't say what color the car is, it writes everything else. So these are some elements to be taken into account and to be taken into account by law, but also the State Audit should be taken into account when auditing an institution to see what was going on here. Afterwards, the regulation of criteria for selecting an economic operator that crosses the minimum level of capacity. So it's kind of a simple dictionary, that's what they do when they're written in these procedures for a particular company, the City of Zagreb is always interesting, it's interesting for the simple reason that you have a very interesting situation here, I'm not going to use any harsh words, but I could use it. So then you see a public procurement process in the City of Zagreb where it is prescribed that there must be 3 employees of certain specific knowledge and you know that there is only one company in Zagreb that can fulfill it and then everything is clear to you, everything is drawn for you. Then, incorrectly determining the criteria for the selection of offers, the criterion of the most economically favourable offer. When we had the General Public Procurement Act, you well know the whole procedure, or related to the Public Procurement Act, and the work of this commission is closely related to it, and it is extremely good that when the law is changed, when it is adopted new, to consult colleagues who do so, because they can contribute to their knowledge, their experiences, to make the regulation better. First, the first criterion we had, which was the simplest one, was the price criterion. Why? Because it's kind of the simplest thing in the sense of choice, and it's the simplest thing for you later on when you get a complaint that you have the only price criterion, then it's very simple for you. But what is shown is that it is simply not good, that some other criteria should be included, and that they are well involved. These other criteria are always kind of ruby to you, on the one hand she says that the way to hell is filled with good intentions when you introduce all these other criteria then you really open up the possibility that what people don't like, you know when you have an exact, when you fill all the boxes and put the cross on then it's very simple, when you introduce some other criterion that you still need to explain, then it's not that simple, but we think that for quality selection is extremely important, then it's a deviation from the conditions and requirements from the documentation when you review and evaluate the offers. The thing is very simple, so you have the exact elements you need to look at, and if you've stepped down, you need to know who's stepped down, why and why. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. So, it's always this missing explanation of the reason is something that you definitely have, so when you have exact criteria, when they're you don't know mathematically, they're simple, when some criteria are in which you have to include some other things, then your whole procedure is more complicated, but since we see that the commission is speeding up or reducing the number of days that are averagely needed by one object, you can see that there's already some things that have settled down and it's good that they're getting up. What we need to read clearly through the Commission's work is the following, and this is the first thing that really matters, and that colleagues who work on the commission are actively involved and involved in the making of regulations that they later act and which are important to them for their work, I, in this particular, think of the Public Procurement Act because when you see that 98 items are related to it and it is good to always be some improvements that are together with the Commission. And something that's important through the work of this committee, which is its anti-corruption effect. He, the commission simply in drawing up an Anti-Corruption strategy must be an active participant, must be an active participant for the simple reason, through all these procedures, through all these so-called so-called. Professional mourners they see shortcomings, from these shortcomings you see exactly some elements that decide to deliberately agree the whole procedure to suit someone and simply what must be the interest of all of us, which is when you see the lists or elements by which individual states are assessed, the Republic of Croatia is when it comes to anti-corruption efforts or the situation related to anti-corruption or the efforts it is doing is very low on that list, it just means that it has decided on the status quo, so how is it. It's just not good, it's things to change, and I'm reading here the role of the State Commission to control the procurement process. What is equally so when there will be a report for 2019 would be good to see that progress is in what is so-called progress. Quantitative elements, which means that efficiency has increased, reduced number of days, it is possible for some tools, it is possible with people who have greater experience, but what these qualitative shifts need to see, these qualitative shifts are definitely the participation of colleagues in changing certain laws or adopting new ones that define this problem and what would be qualitative, which is more active inclusion in the documents is primarily about a strategy that is related to anti-corruption or the fight against corruption, for the simple reason that when you see some of these elements that I was free to number, little analysis, which are primarily defined by the commission, which is the specific errors of the orderer. If a client always has a specific mistake from which you read that only one company meets the conditions, that only one type of car can be, that only one company can do works, say, to maintain public lighting or something, then absolutely it has elements of Anti-Corruption and should be kept in mind that through the strategy is somehow all the experiences they have, and I'm sure that after 15 g. The work of this commission has very good experience to define these experiences through strategy and to be less, because if these are specific things that the contracting authorities have, then it means that it is repeated year by year and it should be kept in mind that there are really no elements to repeat from year to year, or that when the state audit there goes and does the same things that have been through the commission and about seeing, the appeal sees the cases as to how accepted in the appeal procedure, this means that, if I may further explain that I can be absolutely clear, if one municipality and the city, if it is continuously falling objects or accepts complaints for the reasons that in their competitions, or always, a mistake has been established that the entire documentation is complex in such a way that it can be obtained by only one company, then it is also for some other institutions, as I have initially told us at GLAS Club, for the reasons for the simple reason that the 15th time. The work of this commission shows that in those key elements, which is transparency, efficiency, independence by which the work of a commission should be assessed, there is progress and it is seen that these 3 elements are absolutely satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165564	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165565	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. The esteemed presidents of the state commission with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, mostly on behalf of the HDZ Club, said and sublimed everything that is visible through this report, so here is the time and respect for my colleagues, but I will say a few things about the state commission or this, for this report and for the public, and also for the Commission itself. Therefore, as well as an independent and independent body, the State Commission is solely related to the resolution of complaints concerning public procurement procedures. So, often, here and from colleagues, we talk about this, and it turns out that actually the state commission is engaged in public procurement, not actually in resolving complaints about public procurement procedures. As such, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement can file indictments for violations, but also for some other regulations which it does neatly. You are actually rational in your business and you can see through this report, through these figures, so the funds that you spend through the state commission or all that you are incometing and through fees in the complaint procedure in the state budget, so the funds don't go to the state commission, they go to the state budget, and you can't, you can't dispose of it. The effectiveness of the state commission, as well as its work, transparency, independence in the work, were in fact recognized by the bodies of the European Commission as can be seen on the web pages, their web pages through a network project and on this was extremely much worked by Goran Matešić, who was actually the President of the State Commission, today he is also retired and I think this is a chance to thank him for his dedicated work and for everything he actually did through the state commission, strengthening him as an independent body. Instead of him today, there is a colleague of our Maya Kuhar, and since I know her work from before, I have no doubt that you will be zealously fulfilling those obligations to the state commission and that every subsequent report will be even better and even better. In previous reports 2017 and 2016 often if you followed through the phonogram debate and records, you could hear from our colleagues a certain meal related to professional complainants and what Mr. Shucker was saying, but also to the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia where he was actually said that through his actions in the administrative dispute against, against your decisions, not your own personally, but against the decisions of the state commission, it was actually too long waiting and that waiting in some way made it impossible for better economic development because, in fact, certain funds were hitched. It should be said that at that point they do not block, not block the funds of the bidder, but that he can dispose of them during the duration of the dispute. But something else in this report is getting into the eyes, and we talked about it, and I remember that the former president was also expressing hope that by introducing an e-appeal from 1.1.2018. In fact, certain procedures are shortened, i.e. that the tenderers of those in the appeal process will use this e-appeal tool more. The report itself says here that some 28 and 29% of the cases are only covered by an e-appeal or by some 1170 items about 330, 336 items were through solving an email complaint, which is now not clear to me either, or those who are in the appeal process do not use that tool, but actually do not have to use it as much as you told me, so they are not obliged to use that tool, and they can use it. So, so far, it's been a cut from 34, so today it's 28 days or an average time from the date of completion of the appeal case itself until the decision is taken instead of 14 days is now 11 days, as the president also said in her report. Since I am a member of the Anti-Corruption Authority or of the National Council for the Monitoring and Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, you are constantly present at this body and I, I am familiar with your contribution to this Anti-Corruption Action, and in fact by your public, by your independence and your transparency, you are also showing other institutions in the Republic of Croatia the way that we should do something to reduce this perception of corruption, I know often say it, and here I will repeat it, so also in society through social consciousness and, we create a society of synergy and it is not good because a large number of institutions, especially your institution is public and transparent in its work and it is visible and there would not be anything to object. All your decisions are made public via your dkom.hr pages. Amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, so you are now allowed to also publish the decision of this High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the disputes of public procurement, which is additional transparency and in fact an anti-corruption... Finally, I must say that the representatives of the State Commission for Public Procurement Procedures are also involved in round tables and in the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the fight against corruption, the anti-corruption strategy in the Croatian Parliament and your recommendations and suggestions are of paramount importance because you are actually the body that detects corruption problems, i.e. corruption in the Republic, and this is very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it should also be said that the State Commission for Public Procurement Procedures and the Government's Council on the Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption where your activities are of paramount importance and I can help with that because you are also committed to a strategy in the fight against corruption and as much as I have seen in the action plan through a series of measures, through a series of measures that are related to your institution, you participate in orderly, deliver them neatly, and in fact that is the way to go. So I'm sorry that there's more talk here about public procurement than actually about you as an institution that doesn't actually participate in public procurement itself in such a way as to talk about what you really need in this report because you're not the address for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165566	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. Before continuing the debate, I welcome you to the gallery of pupils and students and their professors and professors of the Economic Bureau of Commerce School of Zadar, welcome and enjoy your stay in the rooms of the Croatian Parliament. Replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165567	Thank you very much. Mr Babić, since our colleague from the State Commission is not responding and can come forward after every debate and say what he thinks about Mayor Bandic not planning the funds and he signed the contract you are the head of the local self-government unit. Tell me... Or you were, okay, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have this experience, you have this experience, I wonder what you would do if you ever thought of making a purchase of a tenth of your budget on your own, and that you have neither in the budget nor in the projections any indication of that cost, but that you still sign a public procurement contract and ignore a law that is clear on that point. I'm just curious about your attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165568	Thank you. Answer, fellow Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165569	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So if she wanted the President of the State Commission, she can't answer that because she's actually only involved in handling complaints, so there's no need to interfere with local administration and self-government units. And as for what you said, so as the former head of the local administration and self-government unit, you have a statement of fiscal responsibility, so no one in the local self-government unit can carry out the public procurement procedure unless the funds are provided for it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165570	Thank you. Dear colleague of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165571	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Babić, therefore we all understand what public procurement is and we understand the role of the commission. But no one is an island, no commission is independent of, so it is independent in its actions but in some content, what the Commission has found through its solutions and if it has found that one of these things is repeated over and over again, then it is something to prevent. This is being prevented through the legislative framework. So it is extremely important and it is important for the Commission to, with its experience, with its solution, with its list of elements that have found that we have a legislative framework that will or will regulate it if something is not regulated enough or regulated otherwise that there is less to do next time. And in that sense, it is necessary to look at the work of the commission. So we can't look at the commission's work independently of everything else because it is, and its work is based on everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165572	Thank you. My colleague Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165573	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Dark Taritash, perhaps I did not express myself clearly in order for you to get a different impression. So the State Commission for Public Procurement Procedures in the Croatian Parliament and through the Government's Council participates in orderly, I told round tables and at all our sessions and provide certain comments, suggestions and recommendations and recognise certain corrupt actions. We also talked about this with local administration units and self-government and the possibilities of bagatile procurement and what has been heard today about this and the possibilities of corrupt activities. As regards the list of contracting entities that have 5 and more appeal procedures, let's say for the city of Zagreb, the total number of public procurement procedures published in 2018 was 1135 and the number of public procurement procedures in which the complaint was made was 66, which was about 4.5%. So, here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165574	Thank you. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165575	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We have insisted on the introduction of an e-appeal system that has started to apply since 1 January 2018. In your debate, you looked back on how much the decision-making process has been shortened and whether we can further shorten this process by using e-appealing tools in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165576	Thank you. My colleague Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165577	So in 2017 we were specifically talking about this e-appeal and the possibility to shorten the procedures that happened, but it is evident that in the appeal procedure it is not using enough therefore some thirty percent. It is certain that this number will increase significantly in 2019. In this case, from 14 days to 11, it is necessary, through the human potentials related to the state commission and to the extent of certain cases, to be honest and to say that it is very difficult to reduce the procedure itself because the subjects of such nature and of such species require both time and expertise in decision-making. So this reduction from 36 to 29 days and from 14 to 11 days in certain procedures is also extremely, extremely large to be seen through the European Commission's procedures that commend it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165578	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165579	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you spoke about the newspaper introduced by the Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2017, but despite those newspapers that wanted to remove certain shortcomings and mention certain critical points of the system in this 2018 report. Here we have the need to strengthen public procurement policy management, public procurement planning as well as the development of the most economically favourable offer as criteria for selecting offers. It should be said that the increase in prices in the construction sector and services is daily, that the procedures from planning to publication of the full documentation during the e- Consultation which has also introduced a new institute with economic operators are increasingly burdensome or prolonging the time period of preparation of the documentation and is extremely complex. So I believe that now it's time to reconsider what it is that we can change the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165580	Thank you. My colleague Babic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165581	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues. So you've noticed and I know that you've talked about it in your report, but the state commission is not an address, it can only be a tool that can be such observations that are happening, and they are recorded, recorded through a new amendment and addition of the Public Procurement Act to implement it better in order to be more expedient in the public procurement process itself. As far as this is concerned, we forgot one fact about planning and at the most economically favourable prices, as criteria, we forgot to say that the EU directive is also talking about it, and they may be in that part, I will not say complicated the whole situation, but they also create an additional confusion among the bidders themselves. However, the bidders are very well accustomed to this and are used to and neatly supplying that documentation and this is the least noticeable... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165582	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165583	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we are talking about an important topic, I said 6 billion kuna was processed here, and unfortunately the state has been traumatized by numerous non-transparent procedures, public procurement crime and all of what unfortunately we had to or perhaps we didn't have to have good legal regulations and responsible people who carried out public procurement. There, now, a colleague of Mrak Taritas reached out to the city of Zagreb and to certain other situations that we had and which should not have been so. For example, the city of Zagreb is one exemplar of this whole situation and when you see the number of purchases that have been reported in the city of Zagreb or the number that the complaints have been adopted, and believe me, they are there as we say in Zagreb are seductive. So on that side, they're very careful how procedures are conducted, and they usually play certain games here. In the end, this amount of proceedings which have been annulled, or complaints adopted, is extremely high at 37.50%. So it's likely that the amount of the fee is less than these 1135 complaints 200, 300 procedures would be very likely to be at stake. Because yet people are dimming when you have to pay 20, 30 thousand kuna to complain, and the outcome is uncertain, and then you have to go into these legal things to make your complaint come true. And on the other hand, you get the feeling that everything is already prearranged and that some things are already predetermined. And now I'd like to go back to this famous cable car, that's something I have to do a little while after I've looked at the documents from the commission and the complaints that have been submitted to the public procurement process, it's about the construction, and on this side we have a cabler in the city of Zagreb, here's where colleagues who are not from the city of Zagreb but from some cities in the Republic of Croatia know, so in Zagreb, the cable car has worked for a number of years means 50 almost years, and in 2007, unfortunately, this practice has been interrupted because it was no longer adequate, nor has been maintained, nor is it safe, etc. and for 12 years in the city of Zagreb, we don't have a cable car that our fellow citizens and all those many tourists would use to visit the most beautiful mountain in the Republic of Medvednica. So, on this side, we all expected in Zagreb to do this as soon as possible but to be within some real boundaries, realistic certain amounts and tailored to the needs of the city, citizens and tourists, and ultimately to the needs of the mountain, because it doesn't matter when you see what the mountain now looks like and how it's being destroyed and I hope it will bring it back to at least 90% of the original state compared to when, when the works started. One would expect when comparing other such projects across the EU that we will first use EU funds, not money from the Zagreb budget and another that the price will be there somewhere. Unfortunately, our cable company in the City of Zagreb will be the most expensive cable company in the EU, even the cableways built at altitudes in the Austrian and Swiss Alps and the Italian Alps are several times cheaper than Zagreb, which is at an altitude of 200, 250 m, will end up at 1030 or something lower than the top of the Medvednica, but is cheaper than some that are built at 2500-3000, 3000 m high. We have another moment, and that is why the cable car has, in fact, two cablers, one that will go from, from Gračan to the Twin and then the old one that will go along the route to the top and in fact, the project is twice as expensive as what it should be, and so now we have a garage of 400 places that also came up on Gračana and in fact that the project is built to be very expensive, so that it's very important for all of the people, and it's very important, and it's very important to be very important to be, and it's important to be very much, and it's very important. And then I looked at these documents where they were complaining to each other, it's usually 2-3 companies that work in Zagreb and monuments and rotors and cablers, all the same companies do not, it's probably a coincidence, it happens by chance not, that exactly the same, that nobody in the commission ever wondered how exactly 2-3 firms always get the same jobs, hundreds of millions of kunas of construction jobs and everything in the circle, newspapers write, godfathers, not godfathers, etc., but no one tangles, HDZ supports the mayor on the team, in these things and things go so suddenly. And then I looked at the documentation, and I saw that, let's say, people complained about the offers of other companies, where they're specializing in the transport of construction material that the company that needs to make, watch out for this, the job of 200-300 million kuna, hire one truck from this craftsman, from this company, as if it wasn't possible on the market to find someone who was going to take you out of construction material with their trucks or with some company that has an adequate mechanism, and a lot of these companies were unregistered or they didn't work at all, and they complained that the people that were simply making the offer that was a day, were not adequate because they couldn't do the job that they put before them, and then I wondered why and I came to the conclusion that it was because they had someone with one truck and thus satisfied 100 or 50 of their petty interest circles and each took their part of the cakes. This is how it works for you, unfortunately, procurement in the City of Zagreb, and for this reason Zagreb and Zagreb are paying the cable company instead of 150-200 million kuna, 500, and for this reason we will pay 50,00 kn per person transport to Medvednica and Sljeme, which means that when an average family goes away with two children that you will only drive up to pay 200,00 kn for these interest circles to draw money and earn huge money on projects that are being accumulated needlessly and thus serve personal interests, and not for the interests of citizens. I am sorry that there are political parties and individuals who support this and I said in the City of Zagreb are HDZ and, and Mayor Bandic. You wouldn't be surprised if some of the local HDZs had one of those trucks as their partner, you wouldn't be surprised. Unfortunately, this is how it works in the City of Zagreb, and with this we must finally break up and finally say that it is enough, and especially when it is still being done illegally and in such a way that that money is not at all secured in the city budget and on the other hand what Mr. Babic says clearly does not concern anyone, the Law on Fiscal Responsibility does not concern anyone, I tell you, I tell you, Minister Marić, Minister of the former Šuker here that Mayor Bandic did not have the money, what you will do, you are the government, show him that this is not how he should behave and cannot behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165584	Thank you. A colleague, a colleague of Shuker, would you please don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165585	So you need to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165586	Please don't come in while you're discussing, we've got a respectable colleague, Anka Dark Taritash, here you go. Please, colleague, here you go, Comrade Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165587	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras. There is no topic, there is no law that can come to this House without us being able to mention the example of the city of Zagreb. When you started your debate, then you said it was important that we had laws, that it was important that these laws were good, but then you mentioned people. There are no laws that the mayor of the city of Zagreb cannot come up with, equally when it comes to what is now the subject, which is the report on the work of the State Commission to control the procurement process. This procedure when it will be controlled will prove to be always okay, but behind it is everything that you have stated. So what we're talking about public procurement is I'm talking about the city of Zagreb form will be satisfied, but behind the content we're going to see everything you're saying that there's always the same firm, the same story and I feel like I'm in that movie "Enfinite Day" to wake up every time and every time I wake up all the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165588	Thank you. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Maras. I'd like to ask you nicely don't touch and call that fellow in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165589	No, no, that was a commendation, Mr. Brkic, so it's commendable that Mr. Schucker is here at the session all the time. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... And good work to Shucker and everyone sitting here. Well, it's an honor to you, because there are few MPs here, look around you, Mr. Shucker is one of the most regular here, and I don't see why he gets angry when a man praises him. Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash, meaning Homeland Thanksgiving Monument to Franji Tudjman, bypass, cableway wherever shovels are buried, though not for a job under 20, 30 million are spinning the same firm, two, three, so I think it's clear to everyone. And I may put myself at risk here for what I'm saying, but I won't stop talking about it and I won't stop until more money is taken from the citizens of the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165590	Thank you. The next replica, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165591	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maras, you were saying that in Zagreb, two, three of the same companies usually get jobs. I will mention one phenomenon that is happening, I don't know if it is in the city of Zagreb, but in the rest of Croatia there is a middle, when the recession then appears on state projects everyone. And at a time when the financial situation is good, and the state generally has the biggest projects in Croatia, often calls for only one bidder with a 30% higher price than the initial and second competition, another firm, third firm competition, and can talk about its own kind, so I will dare tell the cartel that companies in a situation where it's good then they agree on who will report to which competition, and then they take each other as co-operatives. And that's the same thing if we compare that situation, there'd be interesting data.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165592	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165593	Thank you very much. I'm going back to this case. I guarantee you after the first complaint after a little bit came to light as to say no arrangements on the division of cakes, figuratively speaking, in the case of the Sljemen cabler, I'll bet and guarantee it's very likely, I can't say with 100% certainty, but the companies that have complained are now participating in the works because again it's two, three companies. It's very likely so. And there's the problem, so we're doing the form, but things leak through your fingers. And on that side, we need to see how to stop this intransparency, how to stop the illegal behaviour of the Zagreb budget. That contract shouldn't have been signed. Unfortunately, it's signed, and we'll be paying for decades more than we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165594	Thank you. Next debate, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So as far as the report itself is concerned, I would like to point out that the Public Procurement Act has been established since the first time your office has experienced several changes. The last change that was a few years ago seemed to me to improve the efficiency of the public procurement system. So in previous years, we had problems that, as a rule, the one who did not win the contest automatically complained about the competition, to slow down these projects, it was difficult to question the execution of the public procurement procedures themselves, and the latest changes had quite improved the situation. So the introduction of a fee in the complaint was one good move which was then largely and I reduced the number of complaints. We see that the procedures are accelerated, but I think now may be the time to change the law again and introduce some things that with the commission itself do not have that much to do with it. So the Commission is working under the existing law that even some things exceed your powers which are problems today in the public procurement system and that you cannot enter. But I think this is an opportunity to talk about these particular problems and that maybe we law-makers are thinking about changing the law to improve the public procurement system and processes themselves and to make your job easier. So one of the problems that arises is what I was saying earlier to my colleague Marasu in the replica, so now that there is no recession and there is no crisis I am a witness in certain environments in Croatia when it comes to construction projects that are usually funded by the state, it often occurs that only one bidder with a 30% higher price than the initial one, and another project in the same environment appears someone else, etc. We have three, four companies that usually work, but it gets the impression that they've agreed between themselves exactly who's going to answer the job. I'm pleased that everyone's working and everyone's got work to do, but ultimately local self-government and local companies cost it 30% more. Sometimes they're unreal in their prices, so that's one problem that imposes where we all need to see together how, how to try it, let's try to bypass the ancestors. The second thing is that this report does not show and it is not subject to appeal additional works, they are legally limited to the price of additional works, but some companies go with the price consciously below knowing that they will later have 10, 15 or 20% of additional works and then generally get a job maybe for a couple of tens of thousands of kunas, and later they have 2, 3 or 10, 20 million additional works and, as a rule, when views were not more favourable than the first bidder, which was not visible at the beginning of the selection of the performer and could not be affected. Another problem that has been under surveillance lately, so these are certain projects funded by European funds. So you have that co-financed by the EU in most parts of 80, 90% but certain deadlines have been set on which those benefiting can't be affected by the procurement process, because of complaints, etc. and these contracts have agreed on certain pens if the deadlines do not comply with the EU. And now we have a problem that a certain local self-government or some city or municipality or some legal person owned by a local or regional self-government contracts a job of an unaccountable EUR 10, 15 million, and has a budget of several million kunas, but has got a job because he has a good project because of the public procurement process, and he has to pay a few percent of the amount of the project that sometimes can be 3.4 times the amount of the budget of the institution that conducts the public tender. In fact, we are jeopardizing the functioning of both cities and municipalities of certain, but also certain legal entities owned by cities and municipalities using European funds. And now for the first time it appears and where it leads, it leads that certain institutions or cities and municipalities no longer want to report on the funds at all, on projects financed from EU funds in fear that they may be late because of influence, because of things they can't influence and that they will then come into the question at all. So that's one problem we have to try to solve through the Public Procurement Act. So, we have a situation with the Peljek Bridge which went well despite complaints we see that ultimately deadlines should be respected, and that is precisely the result of the last amendments to the laws that allowed this procedure to be speeded up and that certain contracts themselves should not be delayed, but there are still certain problems, problems in this segment of European funds. And these are the things we should try to find out about, try to find a way out. On the other hand, it is still not in practice to live up to that form although the law provides, the best offer that the quality of the work should also be an advantage because certain people who decide to do so in fear of some kind of prosecution still choose what is more measurable, which is the price. And then they decide at the lowest price which, at the very least, sometimes, is not often and often not the most favourable, because if you have the constant damage, the unskilled works, so I'm talking about building, removing it, it can ultimately be more expensive, and if it's not just a project that's being carried out in function for a long time it's more expensive than the price itself. But because of some fears of not knowing the criminal responsibility, still most people who decide on public procurement procedures chooses the measurable criteria, which is the lowest price, find it difficult to get into this assessment of what is most rewarding and what is the most qualitative and which the performer has stronger references so that perhaps in the future, through legislative changes, it should be more enhanced and maybe I don't know some way to make it more detailed so that people who make those decisions would somehow make it easier to make those decisions, and all of them in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the cities and municipalities who then use those projects. Here, these are some of my thoughts on this. As far as the report itself is concerned, I have no objection. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165596	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165597	Thank you very much. Mr Djujic, one more thing I wanted to say about public procurement procedures, especially those that are expensive or which require a lot of funds, which can be financed by EU funds, I feel that some leaders, for example, have said earlier, avoid these procedures because of different controls. So they are less afraid of control in the Republic of Croatia than they are of control as regards the European funds that we receive from EU funds. So we were able to finance the cable car with 85% of the EU funds, and why are we paying that money from Zagreb, or are we going to pay from the Zagreb budget? Because the Zagreb budget makes it easier to do things untransparently than in the European budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165598	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165599	That's true, and one of the problems is the capacity issue at all. How many people we have who are educated and able to do a complex European project, that is the same question that is being raised. So, there are few people in Croatia who, for example, such a million European project are willing to prepare at all to pass, pass EU financial controls, that every kuna is covered, there is a lot of paperwork, there is a lot of it, so sometimes people consciously, people, local self-government leaders don't knowingly engage in this project at all because they simply have no capacity, no knowledge, no will, have a certain fear of it, and the other thing is that what you said in European means is that every paper must be covered and there's no mugging of any shovel, let alone some millions. So that's also one of the reasons why you avoid that path.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165600	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Tartitas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165601	Thank you very much. In your replica, you mentioned a lot of the topic of construction and the problems that arise in your presentation. So one problem you've identified, which is when there's work, there's work for everyone, and when there's no cake, it's much smaller. Another problem is outside the cost of works or VTR, but the third problem that is certainly very strong at this point is that the prices at which individual works and prices are agreed on are absolutely different today. If you made a deal three or six months ago and you're doing it today, you just can't get it at those prices anymore. It's convenient to discuss it, I don't know which would be the model, how to come up with a solution to all this, and there are units of local self-government in a terrible problem because they've arranged something, got and today he just can't get it and he's in an immeasurable problem, repeat the competition, don't repeat, finish the part, how to solve it we don't have a magic wand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165602	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165603	That's exactly how you work, Taritash. And there's also another problem, so cities and municipalities and units when we talk, especially in the building, as well as utility companies, port administrations, etc. They do projects, they don't wait for a situation that will be economic, etc. So they're doing projects today, some, most of them are waiting for that financial structure to close. Sometimes it should be done as long as the economic situation is good as European funds pass for a few years while they close a certain projection, so they will not wait for the situation because the process of project preparation of the documentation itself takes place. And then there's this problem that you said that today you have calculations of a particular project in the meantime, the economic situation improves after five years, so the prices on the market change, labour prices jump up and there's the problem. And basically, they're in trouble how to finally close that financial structure, but it's good to talk about it, so maybe we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165604	I would like to thank my colleague Djujic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Damjan Vucelic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165605	Honored chairman, respected commission presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues. Each state has a mafia only in Croatia, the mafia has a state. This is a sentence that every resident of our country knows. In order to legalise this government's robbery, it is like all previous HDZ governments, but it also passed laws that will legalise the same robbery. One of the robbery laws that settles the HDZ and SDP party soldiers is the law on public procurement. Through him, he is made up of local sheriffs and their associates all the way to the MPs and ministers. Here we find everything from commissions given to people we call a mystery 10%, to companies that are registered to other people's names. For a simple so-called. Bagatel’s purchases of up to 200,000 kuna or up to 500 thousand kuna for work, units of local self-government choose independently three bidders for these works from which they choose one of the most favourable. In these cases the other two offers are fictitious and staged and this happens in practice. A huge amount of money goes to those godmothers every year over six billion kunas, through a lot of bazaars. And in order for the best man to earn more alone the job is and overpaid with Zagreb, for example, three to five times. And in the end, the same job was done badly because the godfathers, of course, also steal on the material. A variety of contracts, various annexes, are often concluded by these contracts where so-called "exploitation" is used. A higher power to eventually collect even up to a huge 50% higher. They can make and charge extra work, even after five months after these same works are done. Bandic finished the trade there. The deadlines are too short for the competition to appear with the already prepared tender documentation. This competitor has already been selected in advance and has privileged information. The deadlines can also be during the holidays and during vacations, very often and under the exception of a hasty procedure. Within such an unreasonable time-limit, only those privileged bidders shall have the accompanying documentation. In addition to deadlines, we know that the masters in the tender documentation indicate a condition that only one company in Croatia meets. They know people in a joke to say that the contests are so staged, they're looking for an exact specification of the registration mark here. This is a legal way to get overpaid work to your best man again. In order for all of this to cover up larger works, they can be split up into more small amounts, just as much as it takes to enter the law on baffled supply. I found it very nice to listen to the SDP today and their concern of course of public procurement about not being robbed as much as they are looting, I would just remind them in 2013 they passed a law where they increased from 70,000 kuna to 200,000 kunas of bagattel to get, of course, another few billion. And I must point out that the SDP as well as HDZ has the most councilors, commissioners and other party bodies, i.e. The person by these units of local self-government, should all these people and calm down, of course. It's interesting not to steal from the eu funds. Why isn't it stolen? The Eu funds are being controlled. The EU funds are being controlled and this is the right and only truth why we have a poor and no application for funds from the eu funds, that's all. Here's what happens if a reporter is watching this. times when it will write why Croatia has a small realization in the eu funds to remember public procurement, let it remember billions as much as it is stolen here every year. I'll read a letter from a HEP employee addressed to our president. The living wall will protect his anonymity, of course, by protecting all his whistles. I'm going to point out that you rejected our proposal of the whistler law so that there wouldn't, of course, be more of this kind of information in public. Your Honor, I address you because I consider you one of the few honest and correct parliamentary representatives. I hope you will talk about irregularities and crime in Croatia electricity. I'll introduce you to a few details because the truth can't come out in public. Barbaric Frane, otherwise a friend of Andrej Plenkovic from Hvar, was appointed president of the HEP administration. Two years ago, although he did not meet any of the basic conditions of 10 years of work on management but he is a member of HDZ and friend Andrej Plenkovic. Barbaric bought all the media and portals. In the last year over 60 million kunas have been paid for advertising and sponsorship, all irregularities are not published because editors are paid and what is published is immediately removed from the portal because advertising is paid. Barbaric is making a move on HEP employees, HEP administration is not working, no one is talking to anyone, decisions are not being made and HEP's incomes have fallen drastically. Barbaric has placed incompetent party friends such as Berislav Glujic in the post of director of HEP property management who rackets all contractors and eats every day free of charge in the restaurant and at home takes a daily lunch for the whole family, of course free of charge. Krešimir Tomasovic, as director of the marketing communications sector, had completed travel orders in Elektra Zagreb a year ago and had no idea about the job. Milinka Filipovic, as director of the corporate security sector, who is a party official illiterate and incompetent along with Barbaric's racketeering of security systems, is listed here by the Marusic Technical Institute. Marina Leku, director of the human potential sector, who has been mobilising employees, has left the sector. He hired his mistress, Curic Renata. He was otherwise reported to the D.O.D. while he was working at the Department of Defense and was caught receiving bribes with marked bills. There is much more, but it is to be pointed out for setting up public procurement for the cables Barbaric is agreeing with Miljenko Hacek, owner of Elka Zagreb. A million and a kuna are in play. After they retired Marko Škrobo, Jure Jozic left them illegally to work and the State Inspectorate completed supervision and a report was filed and a large fine was paid. Skrobo and Jozic used official cars for 24 hours and they had no right to do so. Skrobo was broken in two times by the official Fiat Type ZG8741GT in a drunken state. Both repairs worth 30 thousand were paid by HEP, or Elektra Zagreb by director Antun Marošic. There's another vehicle written in the accounts. So much for now. Barbaric has done irreparable damage to Croatia's electricity industry in co-operation with the CNS draws huge money and does irreparable damage. Nice to meet you. I have little time left, so I will only quickly touch the city of Zagreb, that crime is booming as it should bloom in the capital of a corrupt country. Jadranko Baturić Bandicev's man, president of the City of Novi Zagreb – west, is an example of a corrupt local politician. I'll give you just one example of the insolent theft of our money, all by law and legally. Baturic was ordered to take 3 to 4 million kunas of our money from the city's budget in one swing and agreed to advance the work with a company that deals with children's playgrounds. The company's name is Regoch d.o.o. The job was arranged even before the competition was called. Now you're wondering how that's possible. Well, it's possible that what I was saying earlier is a very simple job for this company, which is the only one doing a wet-dry playground project in Croatia. It's a project worth 2 means up to 3 million for each playground. Besides the standard playground, you'll still have water sprinklers. So water sprinklers worth, say, a couple million kunas. The greed did not stop there, so two other projects were soon agreed in the Botinco kindergartens and the Trnsko kindergarten. How much longer will we pay for those two kindergartens we don't know, but we expect it won't be under $10 million, because in that case these people don't even know their job well. Of course, here's the job set in phases and it's split into multiple stages to get into smaller offers and fly under the radar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165606	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165607	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, for the presentation of fellow Vucelic. I'm afraid the things you're saying are actually just the tip of the iceberg, and I think it's something, that it's one of the general places almost that citizens are talking about the perception of corruption, and by all indices, we see the feeling even, much, much more intense. I know the time for your replica isn't very extensive, but I'd really like to hear if you have any suggestions to address the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165608	Thank you. Reply from fellow Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165609	Thank you for your rep, pal. Yes, of course it is a very big problem in Croatia with public procurement, it is currently the biggest robbery in Croatia. You must know that here billions of kunas are hijacked annually, robbed, taken. And the public doesn't know that. I watch these reporters, they write about a step sometimes, a little bit about a bench, a little bit about a swing, a little about a fence, sometimes a toilet, but this thing is not mentioned. In the media, there is no robbery of several billion kunas that work together HDZ and SDP. So it's gone, it's got to be said more. What you said, the public needs to know that this is happening, that they're stealing from us here quite insolently. They're insolently stealing, and it's all going under the radar, and no one knows about it. And that's what these soldiers, the ones in the lowest positions, this construction mafia, are all of your party people who knew nothing else, so they went into the building, they need to calm down, they need to please those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165610	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Snow White Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165611	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vucelic, I must say that there was a terrible scene yesterday, the background is exactly the theme you were talking about. Namely, Tomislav Josic, the city's mayoral adviser, Vukovar, threatened our former councilman with a bullet. He threatened our former councilman with a bullet. I must send a message that our councilmen are not afraid of them. But there are people who are afraid of them, and that's exactly how I call for them to call us. They will remain anonymous and we will be their voice and their hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165612	Dear fellow Sabolek, you spoke, or you replicated your colleague Vucelic in something that had nothing to do with the subject, which he didn't speak of at all. You have abused the Institute of injury, or the Institute of Replica. I give you a reminder based on Article 239. Comrade Vucelic, here's your answer, but there's nothing to answer for, but let me know.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165613	Your Honorable chairman, you're wrong because it was just a threat to liquidation because our councilman was involved in research. So other than management contracts, he's also working on public procurement, and that's why HDZ's got a little nervous, a little out of control and threatened with a bullet to our councilman. A colleague of Snow White didn't turn off the subject, this replica is in place, and I would disagree with you there. And HDZ can only tell people that these things are likely to happen more often than if you do not restrain your people because we will continue to investigate the irregularities of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165614	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165615	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Vucelic, you've brought a lot of things out in this debate, so I'd like you to say it where you need to say it, report it to DORH, UskoK and more. However, among other things, you said that we are poor at withdrawing European funds because it is not possible to do certain criminal acts that can be done and are done where European funds are not available. I would just say that just this week we got a notice from Brussels that the Republic of Germany is now using EU funds in terms of Germany and Slovakia, that we have achieved slightly more than the average, so 77% of the funds used, the contracted funds is the EU average and the Republic is currently at 78, while we have opened tenders at almost 100%.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165616	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165617	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but this wasn't about what my colleague was saying at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165618	Thanks a nice fellow, I'll decide whether or not she was, I didn't warn her. So you had a chance to answer, you didn't say anything. We're moving on to the next replica of dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165619	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you've said a lot of things and I'm curious if you can tell us if you've ever led a life or a public procurement procedure when you're such an expert on it. And you say you're in the Living Wall doing research, I recommend you start training and get a little education about everything, and you're the only one who's nodding. The entire Croatian public when you accuse others of settling and the party, all OK, you will answer, you have the opportunity, which is why I told you, the entire Croatian public saw how you killed each other and so it fell apart when you got the first bit more serious function. And we remember your beginnings, registrations to alphabets, alphabets, etc. The only motive you had was to withdraw money and where that money from the budget would come from and how you would divide it between yourself and how your members charged guests for carnivals and events. If that's your view of politics, here I'm glad you're only burning on the two of you, and after the next election you won't even be again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165620	Thank you. Answer, colleague Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165621	Dear colleague of the SDP, I am, by the way, just so you know, a councilman in the City district of Novi Zagreb – west, for 2.5 years I have been fighting these public procurements that you will not believe but also SDP combined with HDZ and Bandic is doing the most normal work in the city of Zagreb. There is no difference in the city of Zagreb, there is no difference between the three parties. So they work together and rob together. In public procurement we are losing you right in the city of Zagreb at least 2/3, minimum 2/3 go by pockets. And they go through the pockets of those lowest criminals, and all the way to the highest positions, they're water supply directors, from Zrinjec, directors at Holding. So what you're saying is that I don't know what I'm talking about, it's not true, I know how public procurement works and I know how much crime there is. And you from the SDP in 2013 passed that law because you increased from 70 to 200 grand. You steal just as much as the HDZ steals from these local units.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165622	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165623	Thank you very much. He was injured in 238, a colleague of Vucelic was executed, totally. So he didn't listen to me at all about what I'm saying or what I'm doing and I represent the SDP in the city of Zagreb and accuse me of doing something together with Bandic can either be totally uninformed or a man who doesn't understand anything. So let him choose or he's uninformed or he doesn't understand anything, whatever's in it for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165624	Comrade Maras, I know that you already have three replicas, and you know it very well, you have the final word now, so you could say it in the final word and you didn't have to abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Article 239, I give you a warning. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165625	Thank you very much. I usually stick to the subject, so I didn't want to answer my colleague Vucelic here in front of the counsel club directly to what he said. He has the right to his position, which, of course, everyone is aware when it comes to me and the SDP of the City of Zagreb is completely guilty, no. So to talk about the SDP working with Mayor Bandic in the City of Zagreb, and he knows that I run the SDP in the City of Zagreb can only be an uninformed man and I hope that the man will get a little more information by the next debate and that he will no longer say it. And as far as the Living Wall is concerned, the best voters and polls and the percentages on which the Living Wall now exists, and okay, that's their thing, and so be it. What I want to say here would like the Croatian public to get a slightly greater feeling about how important this report is and that when we talk about the irregularities we see all the time and when we talk about things happening in certain segments of society, whether it was government, public enterprises or city firms or the City of Zagreb, we need to be aware that a lot of money goes through the fingers and in some ways we pay a lot more than we should. So this kind of irrationality, unfortunately, continues to exist in public procurement, possibly both crime and non-transparentity and corruption, etc. What I'm trying to say once again, we're going to support this report, we think the report is correct, we think the commission is doing its job relatively correctly, but it's not enough. So it is not enough especially when we know what kind of money it is, and especially when we know it, here we see today that one Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest is doing its job in quality and warns about irregularities and conflicts of interest of the Croatian government practically on all cases. Today, the principle of action in the case of the best man has been violated, so you see the best man is also in the supply, as well as with Prime Minister Plenkovic. So this is what I want to see with the commission, that when it sees an irregularity, although it has not received direct input and appeal, although it does not need to be controlled in accordance with the law in this public procurement because the law says what is extremely important to control and what the commission must in itself control, to control the most basic thing that we have just said, whether money is planned and whether someone is working on their own and putting and putting out and borrowing the citizens of the City of Zagreb, as the mayor Bandic does. It's an elemental thing. No one would condemn the commission if, in such cases, they weren't tiny things that are probably thousands, this is such a big, huge violation of the law, a mistake, an unauthorized behavior that the commission, that the commission should have its own position on this matter and we have to return it to the law that it must be subject to review when making an appeal on a case-by-case basis. Because if it doesn't have to be controlled whether money is secured, if someone can borrow, the city, the county, the company, anyone without business plans, etc. and finally have no sanctions or experience that HDZ supports it unreservedly still in the City Assembly that we're talking about. So I watched the press conference where Mayor Bandic smiles and says, so we're going to do budget rebalancing, and next to him is the president of the City Assembly Mr. Prgomet who should first say, if you don't, you can't do it, the assembly has to make a decision that will be paid out of the budget, have projections for next year, and then you can sign the contract, and he smiles and air-conditioned. And what am I supposed to think now? I can only think of one thing, that they're in agreement, that HDZ supports it and obviously so. Unfortunately, until these things change, there will be no change in the climate in society, nor will there be less intransparency and crime related to public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165626	I thank my colleague Maras. Final word on behalf of the applicant of the President of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, Ms Maja Kuhar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, I would like to thank everyone for a very constructive discussion on this subject. There has been a lot of talk about the public procurement system in general, about some negative forms that appear in the system and, in fact, in one part and about topics on which the state commission does not have a direct choice. It would disagree with the part in which it may be said that the state commission does not affect the system and does not make recommendations and does not indicate irregularities. And in this report for 2018, a general assessment of the state of supply was given, certain recommendations were made in that section and related to the mention of the so-called ‘public procurement’. professional complainants and the report itself notes that there are a number of complaints made out without any real intention of achieving certain legal protection. Therefore, in this respect, the State Commission provides certain incentives for possible certain amendments to the law, etc. I think it is important to understand that the public procurement system in Croatia is not only the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The system of public procurement is complex, consisting of different bodies and what we were actually talking today about these irregularities and illegalities that occur is important to raise awareness that other institutions in the system can react in such a situation. So the State Commission, and also regarding this case, which was pointed out by the esteemed representative Maras, was not my intention to say that this was not the subject of the debate during 2018. So the State Commission has handled this matter within the framework, as you know, I know that you will not be satisfied in the context of the complaint allegations and in the framework of the official duties under which it can act in a concrete procedure. However, there are other institutions that may decide in one part on certain irregularities in the public procurement procedure which are not in the power of the state commission, meaning the Ministry of Economy, the Department of Politics and Public Procurement, as mentioned in my opening statement, shall monitor the conduct of public procurement procedures and shall also initiate infringements in the part in which it means that the State Commission does not do so within its own powers. In that sense, I think that we should become also in the future aware of the overall public procurement system and, as I said in the opening exhibition and strengthen those other parts that can react to certain irregularities in the public procurement itself. The esteemed representative Juričev-Martinchev looked very well at the question of procedures financed by European funds and the focus of the state commission is indeed to resolve such cases as quickly as possible. They are also marked in the regulation as procedures which are considered to be urgent before the State Commission. However, what needs to be highlighted complexity and complaints is growing, meaning project documentation, the documentation in these procedures is complex and the responsibility of the state commission in such procedures is even greater because it means some irregularities that occur in the procurement procedures and implementation can result in huge financial corrections for the state budget. So that we must not in these procedures, of course we should always seek as fast a solution as possible and we have talked about it and in the report itself, however, this fast resolution must never be at the expense of quality especially in the procedures financed from European funds. There was also talk of the so-called. professional complainants, as I have said, and we have referred to this report in part for 2018, we have indicated that there is a phenomenon of complaints which are not intended, i.e. complainants and complaints which are not intended solely to achieve legal protection but perhaps some other, other objectives within the framework of the procedure itself. It was also talked about the perspectives of the e-appeal, that's what I also want to stress, so the e-appeal is something that is not binding at the moment, however, leading to deadline cuts. What should be considered in the future, perhaps over a few years in some subsequent period, may make the electronic complaint compulsory if there is support for this in terms of the system. So in that sense, we can even shorten the process even more and I say not at the expense of quality in the process itself. Here I believe that in that part I have included everything that was somehow important, thank you all for a constructive debate and we will respect all these proposals that specifically refer to the State Commission's work report for 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165628	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the State Commission. We have a replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165629	Thank you very much. You have now encouraged me when you said that decision-making in the appeal procedures on European projects is complex and long-term. I would like to hear from you whether your office, or the commission, has sufficient capacity in view of the new circumstances. Do you have enough men, do you have enough resources to track it? If you don't have an appeal from here to increase. So capacity and to provide you with funds to increase the number of people if necessary and if, say, such a strengthening of the office would lead to a better and faster resolution of these procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165630	Thank you. Mrs. Cook's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165631	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's an initiative that's commendable. So we're trying with this number of people under funding to really do the maximum work we can. As I pointed out in the opening presentation we invest in professional staff, so in the last year there were four professional consultants, a specialist was in a postgraduate study that was very specialized in public procurement. We ourselves try to raise the level of expertise within our resources. What is not on the outside is always more and more people and more financial resources. Here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165632	Thank you for your response. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the President of the State Commission for the control of public procurement, Maji Kuhar and her associate on the report. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-11-0.u165633	Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2018. The applicant is the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2018 is hereby adopted." Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes 96 per 1 has been abstentioned and 8 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent board. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.34 HOURS]] I also welcome the Prime Minister here with his associates, ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, two or three Deputy Prime Ministers. Today, the Prime Minister will ordinarily present to us the Annual Report of the Government on the basis of Article. 128 Rules of Procedure. At first I remind myself that the Prime Minister's speech on the report may last for an hour, the Prime Minister's speech has no replicas. Only representatives clubs can participate in the debate so that the representative of the club can speak for a maximum of 20 minutes. Following the debate, the Prime Minister submits a final presentation that may take as long as 20 minutes. In the overall debate, we have no replicas. I would now ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to submit the Annual Report on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please.
