ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143174	Nine and thirty, we can start. Good afternoon. Mr. Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I only wanted one sentence because I think it is extremely important for the Croatian public to hear. I am before, it is the work of the Croatian Parliament, and there is the Minister of Justice, so let him hear it too. I sent an inspection request two months ago for violations of the Labour Act in the Croatian Parliament as chairman of the Labour and Pension System Committee of the Croatian Parliament at a time when employees of the Croatian Parliament have been doing more than 40 hours on a continuous basis what is a violation of the Labour Act. So, it was March 22nd, I sent a request to the labour inspector. and the Ministry of Administration which is responsible. [[Intruder: We understood, we understood the meaning, you know you have no right but I let you.]] To this day, according to my information No, you didn't understand. [[We understand the meaning of Mr. Maras.]] There's no field inspection. [[Intruder: We understand the meaning.]] She hasn't come out, what kind of message is being sent, Mr. Vice President? [[Intruder: But it is, but you have no right to speak now, you know it well.]] Croatian citizens [[Intruder: Let's go, thank you, thank you very much, thank you very much.]] The law was broken, the inspection did not go to the Croatian Parliament on the ground 2.5 months passed. [[You've made yourself clear, I don't want you, I won't remind you you can sit down, thank you.]] I'd like to give you another rush today. sent, sent to the minister of the administration. [[Thank you, thank you very much, let's move on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143176	Final proposal of the Law on Land Books in Second Reading. Thank you. - Final proposal of the Law on Land Books, second reading, P.Z. the number 603 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Minister Drazen, Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, the justice minister is with us and will give a preliminary explanation so that we can conduct a quality debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here is the final proposal of the Law on Land Books I don't even have to say how important this law is, in the second we're reading and the concept is actually, and the solutions are also in the first reading. We've accepted nomotechnical specific requirements, so we've arranged nomotechnical law. I say, in Croatia, we have 15 million, 15 million cadastar particles, somewhere around 3,000 we have land-marked stakes, about 4 to 5 million we have land-marked stakes, so that when we see it, it is extremely important and it is extremely important to regulate this land-marking process and to regulate the land-based books within which the actual rights of ownership, burdens, mortgages and that is also an extremely important issue for citizens' lives, but also for the economy. We've actually worked very much back 10 years and over so that the land books that were once run manually today are in complete digital form. A lot has actually been done throughout this segment and, among other things, we have, functionally both catastre and land books combined, we have this land-based, common information system. So it's a system where the data of land books and catastras are united, and these procedures are kind of unique now, they can, all of them can be transmitted digitally. We also made a central archive, so we'll get all the land books, all the paper-shaped stuff, we'll put it all in the central archive in Gospić, and we'll release the courts of these powerful papers. All this further that is emerging will be in digital form. The concept of this law has actually remained entirely on the basis of that first reading, which is that by law we want to prescribe speed, to prescribe and continue to create conditions for further digitization, so I will briefly repeat what we first read and say. We define the ground record procedure as an emergency procedure and schedule deadlines for making a solution in regular and special land-based procedures. Regular registration of the right of ownership, registration of the burden, and there are deadlines for making a solution from the day the request is submitted for 15 days. Specific procedures, there is important to say the individual correct procedure, the deadlines are 30 days for the opening of an individual correct procedure, 30 days for the publication of the ad, 60 working days for holding the debate from the last day of the ad, and 8 days after that for the decision-making after the conclusion of the debate. Also, as regards the establishment and restoration of land books, we in the Republic of Croatia have 160 catastrian municipalities for which land books are not kept and here we prescribe a deadline, so 5 years for the establishment of land books, or 3 years for the establishment of land books for those cadastrian municipalities where the deposit of land documents or maps has been kept since the date of entry into force of the law. So, where we have the data somewhere, we prescribe a shorter deadline to establish and restore it. Those mortgages that were entered were deleted by September 1, 1980, so by official duty, the law prescribed it because after the 1980s. It really doesn't make any sense anymore, and I think it's rational to wipe it all out. Data on the land book when changing the address, that is, we introduce one novelty, that means when you go to change your residence, then you come to the MU, you file the documentation, change your residence, and in the system that is today, that doesn't lead to automation change and address in land books, but then by today's system you have to come back to the MUP, you get confirmation that you changed the address and then you go back to the competent municipal court, you submit a proposal to change that data, then you bring a solution about it, and that's the whole administrative path that's actually unnecessary, now we're prescribing here when you change that information in the MUP, it automatically goes into land books, and you as an individual with it have nothing, it's actually the benefits of digitization, it's actually the good things that we're naturally insisting on. We are also introducing a procedure for the establishment and renewal of land books without carrying out new measurements, meaning the time limit for this is 90 days in which the competent authority for the cadastre has to deliver a cadastral operator for the implementation of the procedure for the establishment, renewal or addition of land books as soon as the costs of new measurements are avoided. So the measurements are always a significant cost throughout this process, we now prescribe that where the situation is relatively correct, there are no new dimensions. This is also extremely important, we introduce an electronic management collection of documents and an electronic file, that means everything that is further entered, we will keep it digitally, so we want to get rid of the paper, I must admit that I have visited all the courts through Croatia, and wherever I was, the files are in the halls right about the land books, these are the pillars of the paper, so we are going to introduce everything in this digital way in the future. The same one I think is useful news, public notebooks when certifying documents that are the basis for enrollment in the land book, so they will not by automation, but the public notary will know, you came to verify the contract, the signature on the contract, the public notary will tell you I can electronically and submit the proposal to the land-book court for enrolment and that shop through the public notebook will be cheaper than if you leave alone, then the fee is more expensive but it is obliged to meet us so you have a choice you want this or that. Here's how it is, we didn't want to impose anything on anyone but we're stimulating it all to go fast and it's all going digitally. So here and further we stay on the basis of the first reading, we want faster treatment, we want clearer treatment, we want digitisation, we want in the entire judiciary where we work, in fact, to establish conditions for digitisation in all other procedures, and here. Here's what I suggest is that after the debate we support this law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143178	Thank you very much, several replicas, first replica, Mr. Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143179	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, my question is very simple, I support that things are rapidly resolved, that they are entered in land books, I wonder if this law will help, for example, in a situation where Minister Tolusic has only one modest apartment in 2014, and in 2018 he has a bigger house, two cars, and he can hardly explain to the public the discrepancy of that property he has acquired in the last 4.5 years. So I'm curious whether this speed of enrolment in land books can help ministers in the Croatian government, let's say Mr. Tolusic explains to Croatian citizens the way he's acquired such an incredibly expensive property over the past few years and on the other hand, whether this law will allow him to much simplerly report a barbecue of several hundred squares than what he's done now or not. He didn't fill out in the property card? [[Intruder Radin: Delete sentence, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143180	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143181	Well, you've skillfully used this law to actually focus on something else, this law doesn't care who will report it, whether or not they're different, it's the subject of some other procedures and some other laws, but speed is definitely necessary, especially I would tell the owners who tomorrow when they come out of a loan, meaning that they're being dealt with in some kind of quick time by the question of stock books or stuff like that. So this law will actually lead to major positive changes and shifts and precisely in favour of the economics but also in favour of the individuals themselves who want to enter into some kind of credit relationship tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143182	Another replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143183	Ministers, anything that speeds up the key problem of the development of the Republic of Austria, these are land books, cadastres and all that is unresolved and what is from Austria in most parts of the Republic of Austria has not been solved. In my view, this law, if it brings acceleration and digitisation and information, speeds up the process of booking and solving these problems, is a key problem for me, here is an example of agglomeration in Sinj, irrigation and disposal which is very important, a huge project, 240 million kuna is shutting down, the absence of municipal courts that have existed for centuries, we do not have enough people to clean 2640 particles where agglomeration goes. We don't have people because the courts are out. And that depends on remote courts and... While millions are at our disposal to solve this problem. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143184	Thank you, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143185	We don't have extinguished vessels, we actually have vessels that are a little larger, but we have permanent services outside the court's headquarters. So these permanent services outside the court's headquarters, they're connected to their own headquarters and they're doing those jobs related to the area of permanent service where it works so that on that side I don't think we have a problem here, we have 1700 and some judges in the system, we have over 600 advisors. In our land-marking procedures, we have authorized court-leaders who actually lead these proceedings and enroll. So all that's ahead of us, I think we're teamed up and we'll be able to do it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143186	Mr. Varda, Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143187	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, but in any case, it is necessary to welcome the unique text of this law after, if I have well counted about 10 amendments and the addition of that law that simplifies the procedure, to shorten the deadlines, but my replica goes to the issue of what you pointed out in the opening statement. A period of three or five years. Are the conditions for opening land books in these catastrian municipalities where deposits are made or no land books at all? I'm interested in that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143188	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143189	Thank you very much. Yeah, we don't have land books here. That's why there's this five-year-old and three-year-old deadline. This period of 5 years is a little longer because we don't have exact data here, and this period of 3 years applies to those areas where we have laid down I.D.s, and we can actually move faster, so that's over 160 catastrian municipalities, and we think we're going to be able to do that in those deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143190	Last line, Mr. Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143191	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Your Honors Minister, I think this consensus will all agree that this will bring forward faster and as you said, both clearer and defined as to the affairs of land books and enrollment, but what is certain is that this has two more directions to action. This ex-nunc, so what's going to be from now on is accelerating, digitizing, and that's good. We have to think with the unresolved legal-immvine issues behind it, so it's not just going to solve the issue of this law, it's going to have to be handled deeper, wider. We have a lot of unexplained ownership relations that are holding back, in the end line and the economy. These are our citizens aware, of course, of the obstacles to traffic, legal traffic to real estate and many other things. So this is a good step that we welcome, absolutely, I think we'll all agree that everything that's said, that I repeat it again again is good, but we have to go wider, we have to go back and forth, as far as other legal measures and possibilities are concerned, how to clarify all the complicated ownership relations that are holding us back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143192	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143193	Thank you very much for asking. Well, look, it's true, we're being charged with objects that are lagging behind. However, by looking at the judiciary in general, the number of pending cases decreases and here it decreases, the speed increases, we need less time to solve the subject and this new thing that is coming, it's actually going relatively fast. Our underlying problem is they're lagging behind, but I'd say maybe from the last century, things where property was changing, but the parties didn't file for that to happen and through this individual land-marked correct procedure, it's a relatively good method to solve these things. You have somewhere written down where great-great-great-grandfather was still great-great-grandfather, and in fact the change in ownership was several times, multiple times, but no one recorded it, no one submitted the proposal. This is an instrument where it can be skipped. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143194	We've got two calls, I guess, for breaks. First call came in, first came in, excuse me, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We're going to ask for a break on behalf of the club to consult on this law that works on one side, I'd say one good thing that will lead to the acceleration of the proceedings in the land books. I would say something that our citizens are looking for on a daily basis, which is easier to solve their problems, investors, potential investments, etc. What we are concerned about and what we have to consult about is essentially one message that does not go according to this law because if we have a government and a minister here who insists that in 30 days the problem of enrolment in land books, how is it possible that labour rights are not important and that in two months there is no inspection in HS that will control what happened on March 22nd and whether the laws of the Republic of Croatia have been violated? In HS, we who pass laws, that is something that shows the two-faced Croatian government, which shows that HDZ laws are not applicable and that the HDZ laws are not valid because they apply to HDZ laws, then Minister Tolusic would have to explain clearly to everyone, in which way he has acquired enormous property for the past 4 years, where his house accounts are for the house and to show the bills for the house, the company that worked with Virovitski County while he was mayor, then he would have shown those accounts, explained in the property card until the last line, and it would not be just a technical question for Prime Minister Plenkovic, who thus sends a message to everyone in Croatia, for HDZ laws do not apply. And I'm calling on one more Secretary of Administration, Lovre. ♪ A lizard to tell us ♪ [[Thank you very much. Time. Thank you.]] whether there were infringements of labour rights in HS on 22 March 2019. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143196	Thank you. Mr. Bully was also looking for... Thank you, too. Mr. Bully also asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143197	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club MOST of 10 minutes to consult once again, and we are also getting to know the public about the problem means resolving landowners in large EU funds projects, such as agglomeration in Sinj, where it is important and most important to enroll in the land of particles where the right of service and the right path is needed or that the project could be done at all for years because of the inability to sign in and lack of people in meaning in the land, and that is one of the key problems when I was talking about shutting down municipal courts, such as for example. The only municipal court, we don't have any in the Dalmatian Zagora. I'd like the minister to understand this problem, a project worth agglomeration in Sinj, 240 million kuna, 2.5 thousand particles to be cleaned up on a large surface, 4 catastrian municipalities, but we don't have people, we don't have people, why? And because of the suspension of the municipal court where the municipal court in Split sends these people to other areas, and we have money leaking beneath our fingers, it is a huge agglomeration project due to the inability to enroll, cleaning up these particles in matters or the right of service is the problem of the Ministry of Justice did not provide enough staff in the Catastrian i.e. in landers in courts and this is a huge problem, it is the brakes of the 240 million kuna project which is already a triba bit implemented, but I repeat, because of the lack of people in the land cannot be entered and cleaned up, and I also warned that when the municipal court was shut down, you did not listen, so that people donated or purchased land for enrolment in the land are waiting for 10.g. And what kind of development is that? [[Intruder: Thank you]] So... We have a huge problem, Minister. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Bulj.]] Brakes and EU funds and numerous projects [[Intruder: Thank you]] is the survival of people in these areas. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143198	Thank you, I'm sure the consultations will be fruitful, so we'll continue our power with new powers at 10.05, and I'm sorry, we have one more consult, excuse me, please, please, you're right, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143199	I thank you, sir, thank you, Mr. Vice President, for waiting for you to complete Mr. Bulju's address so that on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, we would like to request a recess, in order to reiterate the importance of the adoption of the Law on Land Books. Land books are one of the most fundamental, most important records in the Republic of Croatia, which record data on the most valuable property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this proposal for a law that will contribute to the construction of the land book is extremely important, it is a presumption in the first row of investment opportunities, not only in the private-owned section, but it is a presumption of the development of investment in the public sector. GDP growth in the Republic of Croatia of 3.9% is partly based on the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, growth in investments was over 11% this year. In order to continue with this investment intensity in the Republic of Croatia, it is primarily necessary to enable the establishment of works for construction, and assuming, a fundamental assumption of the outcome of works for construction. building permits include registration of ownership rights and investors. Therefore, as the minister himself said, in the Republic of Croatia there are certain municipalities and cities, certain catastrian municipalities where no land book is established. The fact that the previous Governments, in particular the SDP Government, did not worry about it, did not solve these fundamental problems, I welcome this amendment of the law, which in large part relies on and on the fact that we have passed a new Law on the cadaster and geodetic measurement, which provides for the accelerated geodetic measurement in the Republic of Croatia and the geodetic and cadastrian dimensions that will then allow for the completion of the land book and in those municipalities where it exists, and particularly in those municipalities and cataract municipalities where it is not established. Therefore, this law is very important and I welcome Mr. Minister We'll do it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143200	Yeah, we're still on time to 10.05 p.m., so let's get on with it. Thank you. It's 9:55 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.08 HOURS]] After the consultations we continue the committees, they were the Committees on Law and the Committees on Justice. Is there anything the representatives want to say? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mrs. Maria Jelkovac, in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143202	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll try to say a few things about the final proposal of the Land Book Act. Much has already been said in the first reading, and the minister has now reminded us in the opening explanation of everything that is being introduced through this new bill. What is truly certain is that land books are the necessary and most needed records that actually preserves the legality of all real rights and, above all, the legality of the property that our citizens have in a way that is properly recorded in land books and that through such a observation at all times knows who the owner is and that this creates legal certainty conditions. This bill has also been part of a reform package of law enforcement laws, land-book reform and catastras have been implemented continuously for a long time and with the aim of establishing a modern, efficient and transparent system of land-books and catastras in electronic form, and it also does so in the context of a national programme called the regulated country. In view of the need to implement new information and technological solutions, the Law on Land Books has been amended 10 times so far. And it is therefore now proposed to implement the full text of the new law, which, with so far as legal changes have been made, would now be the necessary changes. It should be pointed out that today all land books are run in electronic form and data are available via the Internet without compensation for all citizens. Common information system so-called The CIS has been introduced into all land-based book departments and cadastar offices and has been fully used since November 2016. The purpose of the ZIS is to raise the level of legal certainty in the transport of real estate, simplify the process and the speed and quality of the provision of services to citizens. Through the application in that stop shop it is possible to issue land library extracts with the power of public documents in public notebooks, lawyers and the system of e-citizens. It is also possible to submit proposals for the entry into the land book by electronic means by public notebooks and lawyers, which contributes everything to the ultimate objective, which is electronic business in land books. I am not going to talk again about what introduces this final bill as a newspaper because it is very systematic in the opening statement and stated the minister so that I do not repeat it. I would just say that some of the reasons for this new law and archaic expression are also nomotechnical compliance with other laws and regulations. When the Law on Land Books was passed, the land book was conducted by hand and an exception was prescribed in law for the electronic management of land books. However, the development of a hand-run land-based system has been prescribed and since 2003 the land-based book has started to be conducted in electronic form. The new law provides for electronic operations in land books to be regarded as a rule, and the law lays down the foundations and powers of such behaviour. This new law also required the resolution of certain legal gaps and a clearer provision of provisions whose interpretation in the application of the existing law led to unequal case-law. Of course, our citizens are still in charge of certain court proceedings for evidence primarily of ownership rights, which is because some data are in land books, not listed or implemented in time, so we do not in all cases have accurate records of the current situation, so it creates certain problems with certain property legal relations. However, what I would say is that this introduction of electronic business above all and the records in the land books will certainly speed up the handling of those substantive changes and the resolution of these problems can be expected only after new cadastral measurements have been carried out in some catastrian municipalities and in order to bring the current situation into line. What is certain is that the procedures are being accelerated and we can see something about this from statistics so that the average number of days for the book was 22 days in February 2019. So, for example. In the area of the municipal court, Makarska average number of days for the book is, say, 144 days which is not small but on the other hand, Virovitica is practically solved the same day so that we see this one, this one disproportionate. In February 2019 there were 42 916 items received, while 43 396 resolved cases and 46 595 pending regular cases. 95,758 land-marked items were issued by electronic means, 4 854 land-booked extracts were issued. A 321 proposal for entry into the land book was received electronically. When we look at 2018, 1,157,000 copies were issued, of which 77 528 were issued by electronic means. Here, 24 land-booking procedures and 71 land-book renewal procedures are currently being conducted in the courts, which also indicates that there is significant and rapid work to create optimal conditions for the speedy resolution of enrolment in all municipal courts. 252 land books have been opened in the land departments for the time being. The HDZ Club will therefore support this Final Proposal of the Law on Land Books because we believe that the conduct of land books will be accelerated, also because of the regulation of new deadlines which are shorter than those so far, and also because of the transition to full electronic business and thus the land-based cadastrian data will be harmonised, thus leading to greater legal certainty in the business of real estate and the protection of property rights and other real property rights. What I would finally add is that between the first and second readings, all the comments of the Legislative Committee have been accepted and that this final bill in that technical sense has been completed in relation to the first reading and this, this law does not require additional funding in the state budget because it will be implemented through the regular business of land-based courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143203	Thank you, too. Let's move on. Now in front of the Independent Lists Club, Mr. Miro Bulj will agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143204	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Honorable ministers with associates. Landers, the catastre is a key problem for the development of the Republic of Croatia because one of the most important ones, because simply everyone who wants to invest and solve property-legal relations, has to wait for years in areas, so mostly where I come from, and probably in the territory of the entire Republic, except what she said to her colleagues in certain areas where something better was solved. Some landowners have not been changed from Austria, meaning since the last century, over the last century, i.e. The beginning, simply, very few problems have been solved here and simply there are key problems at all to get the possibility of developing these areas, and mainly, here I mentioned earlier, again I will mention that the main problem is that of the EU projects, today which I have mentioned, is water, i.e. water. It is a project of agglomeration in the area of the cetin area, i.e. Sinja, it is an integral system of water supply and disposal, agglomeration of Sinj. I said that somewhere around 28 million kuna was that project. We have a problem that we don't have enough people in the land at all, so example, here is, I see this memo from the head of the unit of local self-government 2018, May 9th. where they say that simply to get the right of service on 2000 and some particles, that we would have this project of agglomeration, draining and irrigation, draining and waterway solved, and it's a very important project and because at the centre of Sinj we have lateral channels where the sewerage is being opened, to solve this problem and endanger the health of people in the area itself, but this project from EU funds is being solved and the problem, of course the preservation of the river Cetina because it goes directly to the sewer system in the river Cetina and simply, it is a huge problem and now that we have the opportunity to solve it, this project has been declared strategic, meaning it speeds up certain things in the resolution of property-real relations, in the rights of service, in those particles that need to be solved, however, a huge problem that has been observed, the number of employees working on it. So, for example, in Sinj, there is a vast area where we have five catastrian municipalities on that part. There were only two employees, and there were references to this, and everything that had to be entered, so that there should be waiting in Sinj for the enrollment, some gift contracts, countries or... For months and years, he waits to get rid of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I warned that this would happen in municipal courts when it was reshuffled, but it is simply unimaginable that an area like the Dalmatian Zagora from Krka to Neretva, we do not have a municipal court. That everything transferred to Split and, of course, that the President of the Court of Justice in Split sends people to the needs of other parts, by the islands of that pool located in the land, as the President of the Court of Justice, of course, and the leaders have to write applications to register it because we will simply have 28 million kunas of EU funds. So it's a huge amount of money that, if it isn't settled within the deadlines set, and it's going to have to pay huge penalties, there's a possibility of not getting rid of it, I believe it's going to be resolved, that a certain effort is going to be made to draw this project, and that it can be solved in the best possible way to finally solve the problem of disposal, the sewerage in the area of Sinj and the Cetinski area, because otherwise these fecal waters will continue to go to the river Cetina, and this money can fail, and that's the minister's key to the problem. So, all of this is good in this law and digitisation, informing, speeding up procedures, solving all this is good, but in practice we have led to the fact that even investment projects by investors of others who are thinking to invest in these areas, that these investments that are of EU funds, which are important for economic development, because this is a huge amount for this moment when demographic decline and when people leave, the system of agglomeration in the area of the Sinj and the Cetin region, so it's probably another, but I am now an example that simply by not solving those 2,000 particles of inability in the book or the right of service, or anything that the project could win that money, that is essentially a threat to investment. And that's the problem, and that's what I warned you about, ministers, the general public so that we are mayors, I call as Parliament's mayor, the mayor's chief of the Cetina region, the mayor to fight to keep at least one court at the heart of the Dalmatian prison. Only the Cetina province will not talk about all of Zagora is larger by the number of residents of Lika-Senj County, and the surface area of Međimurje County. Which means it's not a small space, and how, like I said, we don't have human potential. We don't have people trying to do this job but they did two references, one was in Vrlica this employee, the other was on vacation, I don't know why or a disease or something like that, mostly just two of them were doing it, that's what I'm talking about this project. And these two referents had to do everything else, everything that was going on inheritedly, buying land, and it's simply a huge brake and it creates enormous anxiety and pressure on people who want to invest, and of course also on the natural and legal persons they get, buying land, inheritance, etc. Therefore, I think that everything that is good in this law will be supported because this is a key problem, it should be upgraded probably as well as better at regulation, but one is regulation, and the other is enforcement. Because without people on the ground, there's nothing we can do. Lipo, when we say that we're going to put this meth in digital form, that there's no paper, that's okay, it's okay when we say that it's going to be informed, that it's going to be accelerated procedures, that we have the possibility of a public notary if it wants, that we have a choice, it's all good and it's acceptable. However, the real situation is the problem of the number of people who would carry out certain procedures in order to achieve certain projects, I have now mentioned this agglomeration. 28 million Euros or somewhere around 250 million kunas which are this very important project for this area and ecologically because they will protect the river Cetina and human health because it is an insufferable smell in the centre of the town of Sinj when through a stream, i.e. Two streams of Ćosin stream by schools, kindergartens, hotels, here you will see when you arrive at Sinjska Alka, and you will see what is this ecocid and the danger to the health of the people and the inhabitants. We are now talking in 2019, and it would be a shame if this project failed because we didn't have the capacity to register, and we have that money in the EU funds or that we are paying for any kind of penalty, and this has already been done since 2013, '14, '15. But it's always stuck somewhere. No, it's not just the basic culprit that can't be recorded. But he's one of the key problems because we don't have enough people. Believe me, the Municipal Court remains at the heart of the Dalmatian Zagora, the Sinj Municipal Court with the increased capacity of the people in this land, the land department, to ensure that this problem is accelerated, accelerated. So I repeat it one more time, and I'm going to say it finally. All the changes that go to this key problem of solving landowners, cadastres, speeding it up, digitising, informing, facilitating and speeding up the process of the triba accept and perhaps upgrade, if there may be room for upgrade, however we do not have enough people where the tribals would have them. We have enough of them maybe in the administration, when we talk about management there are extra people, there's probably but on this one, there's this one thing we agree to have surpluses, but on this key and important one where we solve the problems of citizens, investors, property, unfortunately we don't have. And that is the problem obviously also of the Croatian state. On the key, in these mysts, the important Mrs. Triba determines the real things and problems that are important for projects such as either the right of service or the decomposition or that projects could be done because if there is no project, 100% has not been cleaned up and 100% in ownership or the right of service, this project can fail. We're failing in this case 28 million kuna for agglomeration. So, the legal changes are going to get better and that's the tribune to tell the ministers clearly, but the real problem that you have to solve is the lack of people in the land and the lack of people in the castras, especially this is di. This is a key problem because without people there is nothing and it is a key problem and it is a brake investment in the Republic of Croatia, and mainly in these areas where this problem is even more pronounced than several swimming pools in the Republic of Croatia, the colleague mentioned Virovitica earlier that this problem solves quite quickly in one day, two, but in these areas I mention is not such a situation. Which is why, because we've raised our hands from these parts, I'm talking about the region of the Dalmatian Fire. the entire Dalmatian background because we do not have, so we did not leave these people what we left to these people for centuries, municipal courts, and that they can regulate their own needs in this area and not that from Split someone regulates how they will be on islands, how they will be in the Dalmatian Zagora because they will stop and prevent the collapse of these projects that are very significant with these legal changes that are positive and which are legally good because they facilitate certain things and give a new possibility to book as I have said through a public notary if someone had a will but remains the possibility that someone in the current way is in the book, depending on what is cheaper, expensive but mainly will be accelerated, I believe that the underlying problem is that we do not have enough people in the important places, in the land, we do not have people, and that is the main brake of all, mainly those who want to invest and I am targetedly talking about the project agglomication in the region, which is threatened in the region. Here's the minister, that's my observation, that's what I objected to for the Dalmatinski Zagora municipal court to leave at the center of the Dalmatinska Zagora, it's Sinj, you didn't accept it, you said it would be a permanent service, now we have problems and we will have them because there won't be an eternal parliamentary representative, neither you Minister nor the President of the Court is the same, and everything depends on the well-being of the President of the Court, in this way we've endangered projects from the Eu Funds, we've put investors and businessmen who can't solve property with all these legal changes, the problem is the lack of people, the lack of people in the right places. We've got extra people by the ministries, agencies, counties, and here where they need to be people in the land, we don't have people. Other books, for example, in the Cetin region, in two letters, which are huge surfaces, huge projects, Eu funds that can be important and ecological and economic and certainly funded from EU funds, means there is no development until this problem is solved, and therefore once again, the ministers here would warn you to reconsider the decision to shut down, i.e. on non-returning, as it put out in 2015, let's be realistic, Court 2014 or 2015 The SDP Government, you are a court in Sinj municipal, you have been given the opportunity and you have increased the number of municipal courts in much smaller environments, only by political pressures, in Sinj, the court is not, regardless of what the county has stopped, what the municipalities have stopped, the cities, that the Municipal Court in Sinj return and mainly because of this problem and the key problem is the lack of people in the land, which should be determined in the land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143205	Thank you. Now Mr Boris Miletic, Milosevic, excuse me, Miletic is not, Milosevic, will speak in front of SDSS Representatives' Club, Boris please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143206	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers with an associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In my first reading, I said that the law is good, that the law is one step in solving problems with land books and that it should ultimately be supported, I will look back here at some details of this final bill, first I would say something about the very final bill in the light of the fact that there were no concrete proposals on the very text of the law, and then they did not show whether they accepted or refused. I think that in my first reading debate I pointed out one proposal that I think is good and I will repeat it again, so it refers to, for example, giving authority to local self-government units, so to municipalities and cities that I can give extracts from land books, I think it would be a good move, if we now have the fact and the possibility that we can get the excerpt for any catastrian municipality we can get in any municipal court, if we have the opportunity to take out a ZK excerpt for any of the municipalities and cities, so we would allow them access to the register, with certified enrollments, that we might be able to do some other things that we can do through the service of the E-Citizens, then it would be good to allow it to allow, or to enable the municipalities and cities to have access to the registers, if we can do some other things that we can do, or that they can, from official records, therefore, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, and in fact, in fact, the public services and in fact, to the public services, that the public services, that they can be made themselves, and in fact, and in fact, that the public and in fact, that the public and in fact, that the public that the services, that the public that the services that the public and the services of the services of the public and the public that the public, that the public, that they are the public that they are the services that the services of the services of the services of the public that the public and the public that the services of the services of the public and the public that they are the public that the public that the public that the services of the public and the services of the public that they are the public that they are the public and the public that they are the services of the services of the services of the public and the services of the public that they are the services of the services of the services of the public and the public that they are the public, that they are the public, that they are the public that they are the public that they are the public and i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i Secondly, I also mentioned 17 catastrian municipalities as an example in the Gorski kotar where land books were placed off-force like Dubrav, Plaško, Saborsko, Ogulin, Jasenka, so we have the catastrian municipality of Drežnica which is one of the largest catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia where 70% of the surface actually makes the forest, all of those land books in that area were put out of force somewhere in '95. By a decision of the county court in Karlovac, according to the citizens, it was done unwarrantedly, they felt it was not necessary to do so, that the entries were valid, that what those books recorded was, maintained the real situation on the ground and that the book itself was self-usable. Here we have a plan and a law, I'm talking about some deadlines that where land books aren't founded they need to be established. I think it would be good for the ministry to go into the founding of land books in that area to consider that those entries that were in those land books that were put out of force or only the land book had to be revitalised, to essentially be returned, to be put, in a way, or to be copied into a new book or to be put in a way that they were worth it because all the burdens of proving what was once written would fall on the burden of citizens. And the target in these areas and in all the areas we now call assisted areas have neither knowledge nor energy nor money to deal with the issue of ownership with the issue of land books. Because when we look at the state, the state itself has been trying for 22 years to enroll property in land books on those particles on which it is entitled, where social property or even national property has been entered, and the state has signed in for over a million and 100,000 particles, and this job has not yet been completed. And we can't believe that the job where the state signed up was finished because it was written in a catastrous as someone else's owner. And maybe in the field that land is being used by someone third. So it's still a job in that direction for the state, let alone for the citizens. And now we're essentially coming up with this problem so that citizens have an unsolved land-based book situation, that they haven't entered their own houses, their own fields, or their own agricultural land that they're using. And that's where I don't think the state has found the right way to help these people. If we do, or if we give incentives for various things, if we give subsidies for various things, then we should give incentives or subsidies to citizens to motivate them to resolve their ownership rights issue. Because today having 1/1 or orderly ownership papers is simply necessary. It's something you're actually looking for more and more everywhere. For example, we have a Croatian Power Regulatory Agency that asks HEP, so HERA has, as a regulatory agency, passed a regulation, according to which the HEP can only connect someone if it has clean ownership papers on its residential facility, it will get a connection, or it will get electricity. And this is true for restoring these connections, or for restoring someone to get the electricity they had before the war. I know that because now I'm following that situation and I'm following that situation and we have a situation where simply land books, i.e. property papers for some house aren't neat, they're just not. He owns some great-grandfather, some kind of an ancestor. And then we have a situation where someone connects who actually owns that house, which is an undisputed owner but doesn't have orderly papers. If we went with that logic, I think it's okay to ask but if we went with that logic to send an inspection and to exclude all those who don't have clean ownership papers or clean legal relations or any clean legal relationship for the use of a residential facility, we would exclude half of Croatia. Well, in Zagreb, the situation is problematic, let alone in rural areas, we would have a revolution. The agriculture ministry has now passed a rule on land use where it is also seeking to enroll in the ARCOD clean paper. That's gonna be a big problem. In order for any project to be reported, you have to have clean papers. So neat papers, neat land books are wanted everywhere. And as a state, we still haven't figured out how to motivate people, how to find a way to encourage them to go through with it. And I'm saying, I'm gonna take an example, plastic, helping a man solve his own ownership, ownership papers on the house he lives in. For 12 years he has been trying to do so, so he actually bought land from units of local self-government, but on that particle he was not only the owner of local self-government units, but he was a particle of larger and shared ownership, i.e. co-ownership of states and with the state, so he couldn't solve the relationship. You don't even know what the ownership ratio is between local self-government units and the state and then he comes here as the third person on which there is a house, he hasn't bought it yet and he's been trying to solve it for 12 years. Now this problem is a solution, but I'm saying, if we have a situation like this and it's been solved for 12 years, then we can think about what the problems are in both the field and the system itself. What's good, this law should be commended, it simplifies procedures, it makes a step forward but I'm saying I'm afraid that in a large number of cases or things won't be enough. What is good is that in some ways the law pushes to establish land books where land books do not exist for all catastrian municipalities. The deadlines are too optimistic for me, and I hope there are conjectures for that. And I hope that in really five years, we won't have another catastrian municipality that doesn't have land books anymore, but here I repeat another proposal, please the Ministry. If not today, if not in this law, think about giving local self-government units public authority that they can produce extracts from land records, to consider it. Also, to find a mechanism, to help citizens, to encourage them, to regain awareness of how to solve their land books, in which way to actually encourage them to solve, this requires for every citizen of great money, these citizens, especially in rural areas, may not have it, but then they need to come up with criteria, primarily social ones, and they may find money in the budget for incentives, to encourage people to do so. Because I'm saying, if the state hasn't succeeded in 20 years with all its state apparatus and the State's Attorney's Department, then we can expect that for the next 20 years and the citizens won't solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143207	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the Advocacy Club for Croatia, Mr. Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143208	Dear colleagues. New Law on Land Books. 93 pages plus extras. 243 articles, and in each organization, from the military to the firm form always follow the function. What's the situation on the ground? What's the situation up there? The state geodetic administration digitized 68, how many catastrian municipalities. The pilot projects were Zadar, Pozega, I think they're done. That's what 48 million kunas have been invested in, as far as I can tell, but that digitization is in vain, so if you have 5% of the land books that are properly recorded. What about the other books? What's going on here and what's causing this whole thing, the mess that we're looking at today that's constantly blocking in the mainstream media, that's not what people in this House are interested in, most of it. Most people don't care, except for some individual. It's not interested in the mainstream media, but the cause and answer is always at the source. I read five minutes ago only the names of companies seized violently after 45 years. That's the whole building. Old Zagreb went missing where the camp... There were killed old Zagreb families and we know who moved into the most exclusive quarter in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, Stjepan Hršak, the executioner of OZNA living on Tuškanac 61, died two years ago, no one was interested. Nothing to anyone. Whose villa was that up there? Coordination of land books with a disaster. Well, some proceedings won't start until 2020. In my knowledge, what I've read, every normal state, every normal state has some standard procedures. Normal states, but this isn't a normal state yet because it inherited the worst from the former system and we haven't solved it. For example, Ontario, the province of Canada, hired a private company and they followed the paper for 10 years, digitized 5.5 million particles. You have air footage, geodetics, a PIN number that you get as a card and you see it all by clicking on the Internet. And you see upgrades, which can be done, which can't be done. They're state-of-the-art, but here we still have, I'd say some country called Kroslavia. What about the foundations of private property? You have the court's decision to inherit, if you have inherited this, a purchase contract and a valid document that is protocold in land books and catastros. What do you have in Croatia? It's a simple thing, but not because we haven't solved those problems yet where the burned documents are systematically, does Benkovac have any land books at all? Not only did they burn down the 19th century land books, the 19th-century cadastre, in two wars, and they continued in this war, what the forest bandits started there in the '40s, the '50s. They've been given that ride, so it's easier for them to take away people's property, private property. And today we're watching, it's... War, this will be said by MP Culej later, the open door of national-aware criminals, about local courts, municipalities, who, where individuals, criminals were joined by local courts and other characters of the sheriffs on foreign property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have an art. 5, land books run by municipal courts. Here, what does that mean? Where is the control mechanism and the implementation of this on the ground. We'll see about that. And that sea of bureaucracy and administration is another reason at every level someone is looking for bribes... And that form without function won't go anywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about those who entered other people's property illegally? That's what I mentioned. This law has been extended for another 5 years and that means that all the laws and resolutions of the European Council of Europe, the EU Parliament is written in a pen that you can selectively just delete what is right for you, and leave the other one behind later, until all heirs die for example. and nothing to anyone. What about Resolution 1096? Council of Europe on the elimination of the heritage of totalitarianism? Nothing. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. There are some playing, some here, we are talking about land books, and the second largest party in the state advocates the 45th collectiveisation and the peasant party supports them. Well, that's pure farce. It's not on Mars. How do you handle land books? How? Who will arrange land books for Zrin, one of ten Croatian settlements, towns, where Croats were killed, driven away and where their land was taken and given to another minority. Here, you only have for Zrin, 2855 particles. What about the Borg? 3000 something, more particles, pastures of meadows, etc. A Croat can't go back there today. What about Udbin? Not only are our graves too ploughed, you've got 1450 graves of the natives on Mirogoj, and they've clocked us collectively... but the robbery continued, and no one reacted to it today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These, these, these, are addressed to this, the information, we asked for a solution from USKOK to God helping the state to have the attorney general this Miss Vidovic. I don't know whose rights she's defending. Is she hearing anything about what's going on? Of course, other countries have implemented restitution, Bulgaria, for example. She brought back everything she needed to get back. I'm gonna go later today, and it's not the time for this right now, but I'm going to talk to you about today about who was kidnapped property in free speech and why it was never brought back. Why else, we're still stuck in a party system, that form and function won't at all, there's no synergy between the ministries, it's proven to be this, if only 5% of the land books are correct, recorded. ... I found everything this morning in a cabinet in the Independent Office for Croatia, our secretary, lives in Ciovo, his family's been there for generations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A man comes looking for land checks, and the land is run on a man who died 100 years ago. It's a Croatian state. And what are the roots of all this? When someone will rise up and tell those who sit here today and the media that they are the root of the robbery of the largest criminal organization in history, it is the KP of Yugoslavia, whose members disguised today as Democrats and cosmopolitans sitting here today and these are the roots of everything. And as long as this same one, this is just a mere form of what I said, until you have no truth, this is rape of common sense, people have been sent for months, for years of this claim to return property, and nothing. And today we're talking about a post-Communist state that hasn't come out of that one party system, we're talking about private property that... in every other country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143209	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Orsat Milenic's turn in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ministers, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. First and what we said in the debate in the first reading, which is that the law is good for us and that we will support it and I am glad that we can welcome the adoption of this law as an opposition. He brings a whole series of very, very good steps and changes that create assumptions that, and I'm going to emphasize this, unfortunately, for a while, so not right now, but we're in a situation like this, but that the situation in the U.K. is getting better for a while. And to go towards that average we have in Croatia, it means not to be Makarska 100 and something, 140, as my colleague Jelkovac said, but to be some week, two, it would be ideal to be even less, but it's something we need everywhere in Croatia. Because it's not the same, of course there's a whole series of courts where citizens come in, solve things in 24 hours, but while you have others waiting for over 100 days, then you have a problem. You don't have equality, you don't have equal access. What is particularly good, and I think it should be emphasized, and that is this step towards a different approach, and when I say a different approach, that is that digitisation that you were talking about, but it needs to be run everywhere that is more, whatever is more mandatory, wherever it may be mandatory, then it is because it changes the way you think and actually modernises Croatia. This is one small step, but if they're going to spend their lives elsewhere, it's going to be a big step in the right direction. What we're missing as a country is exactly that. To be a modern country, to move forward, not to spin around in some kind of past, and right about the paper and the different way of thinking is just that. What's also good, let's just say, this automation is mentioned, so when you change the M.O. to the address that you're going to be entered into the I.C. immediately. This may seem to be a small change, but it is finally a step towards the fact that when the state has some information, it levelles it itself without obliging citizens to bring it themselves. And that's great. The other thing, I'm sure you did the math, but it might be good in the finals if you told us how much. How many referents are going to get rid of jobs that are doing exactly that right now, I'd say pointless solutions can do other things? And that's a good step. Because we mustn't have this law brought with us what happens too often, and that's what we need new people. As much as we may know a little more about it, we will immediately be able to list at least 10 critical points where new people really need them, but if you take a step back, Croatia is already a country where there is actually too much, too many people working in the public sector and where until it starts to shrink, we will not go forward. And this law means with what's good for encouraging investment, which we all know, but what's more important, for introducing legal certainty exactly where it's most important, it's about ownership, it could be a step in that direction, it means that they release capacities, that people can do what's important to citizens, and that the rest is done by automation. So the state has the information, you put it in one place, it's being spent everywhere else. And that's good, that's great. What needs to be considered for the future, it is my belief that we will not make good and ultimately bring about a system of land ownership and management, let's say, in Croatia, until the catastris and land books are fully merged. This is now a functional merger, we have a ZIS etc., but as long as you have two procedures separate where in fact very often they can go in opposite directions, they won't get what we want and that's that I as a citizen come to one place and actually don't have to think about it at all. And in one place to do everything. And that's something that when you look at, most countries except maybe Austria that's specific and it's self-organized, but these other countries have one or the other solved in a way that it's really connected. I would always go for us to give priority to ownership, and it means that the court is the one who runs the register and who let's say, leading in it, and the catastran that what it was when it was and it was formed and it's actually the auxiliary service that does these technical measurements in the function of what the land book does, so the court. We eventually raised this concept of catastra, the concept of possessions in a way that they became equal, which is completely illogical. And that's something that while we as a country, I haven't been able to do it in my time, you're not doing it yet, either, but it's going functionally, but I'm saying, that's something until we, until we take that step and say that, mainly, you're in function, you're technical service, we're not going to make a real step, and we're really going towards it. The other thing is to think about, it hasn't been done yet, it's never, I've always wondered why, but the opponents are very big, and that's why we don't introduce a mandatory registration of property. Why are we letting someone buy, sell real estate and not register property? It's a first guess, very often to vegetables and such, secondly, it's a prelude to unscathed land books. And all this stuff that's been talked about and, among other things, because we don't have mandatory ownership registration. And the country that wants to have an orderly, not a land book as such, the land book is just a means, it's actually irrelevant, which wants to have a regulated property issue, it would have to move towards mandatory enrollment, so you did buy it, and it's signed in by automation. I know that it might be difficult for many citizens in the first place, but in the long run, it's the only other way that you're going to put in full order, and if you've bought something today, it's going to go automatically for implementation, if anything doesn't work out, it's going to be revealed within 2 or 30 days of these deadlines, but if you're waiting and then you're out there selling it further, so someone remembers after 10 years or 50 enrolling, then there's nothing more, then we have to have the right procedure, and then we're actually going into something that we could avoid in that first step. And that's if we want to think strategically, that's something we need sooner or later to be on the table and see why and what's the problem with having to sign up, by automation. So I'm saying, if there's a problem, he'll get rid of it right away, if you sold it, you sold it. The one who bought it bought it. You here give the notaries the opportunity to go cheaper, which is great because you encourage actually electronic registration, etc., but still the party can do nothing. So these are some shifts that are strategic and that would contribute if we really had an order, I won't even talk about what would go behind it, which is, we've talked about in the Parliament before, we didn't have the strength to do it, and that's actually for you to have someone who guarantees content and someone who guarantees the form of a contract, which is automaticized. And then, yes, if it's a lawyer, it'll be more expensive than it is now, but you'll have a guarantee that the content of what's written there is, that, that and that this power will be exercised and the notebook will guarantee your form and you when you've paid for it because what's the worst, and today it's happening, it's bought in the People's paper for the kuna, everyone or how much it costs, people sign, and then what, then, they have a problem after 10 years, this would be more expensive, but you'd have a fixed property from the beginning, that would be all. It happens to us that the state buys us so it can't actually register because it's not a good contract or nosey all the elements there. So that's something that we need to talk about if we really want to become an orderly modern state that is too high and well managed by its land. Also, another thing that needs to be on the table and that's to think about if we're going to pull one time line, that's not important, 40, let's say for now, whatever year you say, someone's going to say for this or that '50, '56, '60. and that we're going to say ok, anything that's written before that, if there's no entry in the land book in the last 50 or 60 years, we're going to argue that whoever owns it and leave it to possible owners to report within a year, two or three. It's actually after that you won't need proper procedures to that extent, you'll have one presumption, everyone will be able to report but we'll have one zero state behind which everything will be settled because you'll know that, because we all know that someone who's registered as owner 120 or 150 years ago and since then there's no enrolment, that there, he can no longer be the owner, he just can't be alive and we still have those records and then we have to torture ourselves with deliveries across South America, torture here, torture there, torture there, etc. This presumption would say that, which is now logically that someone is no longer alive and no more enrolment, the one who is registered as possessed, let's run it as the owner and leave it to whoever wants to dispute is not important, 5 years later, but after 5 years we've come to some zero state and that's also a step where you could be in the package actually solve this whole country-book complex because these are good shifts and these will, of course, because of the acceleration, all of which I've welcomed, so it's very good what's going to be done now and what you've said hasn't been done for years now, and it's good, but real shifts if we want to do what other countries are doing, it's got to be decisive moves that are actually going to create a zero state of which is a land book, from which land is arranged. Here I will also highlight the importance of the ZIS, or of paralyzing the catastrian and land-based book conditions and what is good wherever we can level as we are now doing with the automation of these small deviations, these are tremendously large, huge shifts. If you have a change of street name, that it is done as you have said automatically, if you have a change of address automatically even change your last name, if someone has changed etc. These are great things that do a step forward, but I'm saying these some strategic ones should maybe start as a country to think and these aren't party things, these are over-party things where actually the benefit is common. No one will make direct political use of it in any way it will take him a lot, a lot of time and investments, etc., but they would mean the country's step forward into a more modern country than we have now, but I don't think there's much longer. In short, a very good proposal we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143211	Now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn and that's how individual debates begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Republic of Croatia cannot be arranged until the end, a state arranged unless there are two basic records, a record of real estate and a land book. Here, while former Minister Milenic spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, I welcome his statement that this is a good law and that it is going in the right direction, but it is incomprehensible that the former minister of justice is one of the most important, for me, the most important records or eats of the two most important records in the Republic of Croatia, which is the record of a catastra real estate that comes down to a small technical service that is just serving to establish a land book. Namely, without a real estate catastra, without a geodetic measurement, land book or better stated basis for functioning, establishment, work, maintenance of a land book is a cadastre of real estate. It's just like saying that the foundations of the building are irrelevant that they're just serving to level the terrain so they can, you know, build a building without a safe foundation, there's no safe building, no good real estate catastra, no land book. So, fellow Milenić here made it quite easy to call it, Mr Milenić, a cataster only once with a small service, an auxiliary service that serves, for the formation of a land, land book. I also welcome, as he welcomed the passing of this law for several reasons. Before I state what these reasons are, it is important to say that what I said at the beginning, that the state would be arranged, in order to be friendly to invest, so that it could be, in order to contribute to the security of the business environment to all its employers and also to its citizens, have a cadastre and land book established in such a way that they are first and foremost harmonised, and what is more important is that one and the other records be consistent with the situation on the ground which is not the case in Croatia. The number of unsolved items in Croatia that, up to 15 years ago, were more than 360,000 when I was talking about the number of outstanding items in the land book, was largely defined by the incoherence on one side of the land book, and on the other hand, the fact that in a certain number of catastrian municipalities it was not even formed at all. Therefore, on the other hand, the complexity of the procedure by not introducing the digitisation of automatic data processing. So over the past 15 years, a significant step has been made so that today, if I'm not mistaken, the number of loose objects in the land book is 46,000. A few days ago, the number of days to solve on average was hundreds of days ago, today he came somewhere, somewhere at 20 days and our intensity to bring him down to 10 days, if he manages to establish a procedure for resolving the requirements that come into the land book for only 10 days then we can say that Croatia has achieved a very high level in that part, but does not mean that the speed of the settlement of the items in the land book is still enough argument that we are saying that good records of land books in Croatia. It will only be good when it is aligned with the cathedral and when it is aligned with the land book. At this point, on the basis of the Law on Real Estate and State Measurement, which we have passed, it seems to me at the beginning of this year, the State Geodetic Administration is working on a programme to rebuild the building site of the construction area in the Republic of Croatia and this programme that will be implemented in the next 10 years, so from 2020 to 2030. The programme, which will be worth around 2 billion kunas, will cover about 6,000 hectares of construction land in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, it is a good idea to start the restoration of the catastra at this time, and then clearly the secondary and land books in that space in Croatia, which is the most valuable and certainly the building land in monetary terms, is the most valuable and therefore the state... the change at the moment in which the assessment of Croatia's areas most inconsistencies between the terrain, catasters and land books and where the situation does not correspond to the real situation on the ground so that this programme would allow faster implementation and this law, namely, the Minister, or the Government of this proposal, to place those land books, or those cadastrian municipalities in which the land book is not formed, there is a deposit of documents, a collection of documents or land charts, in order that these units of local self-government, or better said by those catastran municipalities, would be in priority and would start with them immediately after the Government adopts the programme and on the other hand, those units of local self-government for which, respectively, the catastral municipalities that do not have a land book, would also be at the first stage of access from the real estate catasters then and land books, so I do not doubt that the Ministers will be able to be able to realise this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the important assumptions, the accelerated production of cadastras and real estate, i.e. the establishment of land books, is the fact that, after surveying the geodetic measurements on the ground, they became commissions made by land-based judges, representatives of local self-government units, measuring authority and representatives of local self-government. Since this was a broad commission carried out with its regular work, in a large number of cases, it came to the conclusion that a measurement was made and no cadastre was formed, and the land book was not formed because this public insight and public exposure of the operatives lasted for years and at the end of the work, but with so many changes on the ground it would have happened in the meantime from when the measurement was completed until it would not have formed a land book so that it would have been unscheduled at that time, so we made a big step by amending the law and that it was that the operator of the measurement, the company that was carrying out this measure, and it seemed to me, one of the most important reasons why in 29 years we were in all of Croatia's 3500 catastrian municipalities of all these hundreds of them, perhaps a little bit more successful property in the country, that had been solved. Therefore, we will be able to establish this faster and therefore I am sure that this law is good, and that these decisions, which he assumes, which relate to the maintenance of the land book, will... where it does not exist, I agree with my colleague, Milenić, that this law is good and that it will indeed contribute to the faster realization of the cataster itself of real estate and land books. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is particularly important that this programme is designed by a catastra of real estate that will enable the realisation and the construction of a land book is implemented and that it will be primarily addressed to that part of Croatia and I think it is the entire area of the coastal and Adriatic Croatia where the land book is still based on the measurement of the 1st half of the 19th century, which has a strange scale, 1:2880, after which, for 200 years, the entire restoration of the property is not done, that we will try to go there with that one accelerated programme because right there the worst catastre and the Earth book was maintained and the biggest problems exactly in that area where on one particle that has a hundred squares can be recorded over 300, 400 people, so that we can solve it, then I say that with this law that the government will support and that programme that will allow the rapid realization of all that I have said, in this sense, and I welcome this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143213	Thank you, three replicas, Mr. Milenich first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143214	Thank you very much, so in much of what you've said I agree, you may have misunderstood what I was about to say, so I didn't underestimate the cadastre, but to be clear, I come from a legal mile, you come from this geodetic and it's normal to look differently at the role, as I see a different role. However, both now and always, in running any business and in the state administration, if you have your parallel institutions that are fighting which will be the main one and you don't know which is the leading one, you'll always have a problem. Some countries can solve it so that the cadastre is leading, I'm about to be a land book but nowhere, never a project to the end will succeed if you don't determine which main and one carrier and we're not able to do it in this country right now, but we've got parallelism all the time, and they're paying the citizens, here's what I wanted, can be what you're saying, we can be a cadastre, we can talk about it but someone has to be leading, Someone has to be in charge of [[Intruder Radin: Thank you Mr. Milenić.]] A process where I, as a citizen, solve all my own [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] And it's none of my business, I'm sorry, as far as they're concerned, here. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143215	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Milenić, these are all complementary institutions and two complementary records. This system in Croatia that works has established the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the Habsburg monarchy. This system, which we run, is run by one Austria, one Czech Republic, one Germany, so one Hungary, the countries that were in the most part of the component and the monarchy and there it works without a problem, therefore it works there without a problem, on the one hand the State Geodetic Administration, on the other hand the judiciary that keeps 2 records, they must be mutually harmonised because each one keeps its data which is important, the catastra runs your location, the surface,... the owner, when the real estate cadastre is formed, will be the court that will determine the holder of ownership on that particle, so these are two records that must be kept parallelly and must be one, one and the other must have their own jurisdiction [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in the section relating to the land book, they must be complementary. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Bacic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143217	Thank you. Mrs. Yeklkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143218	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I agree with you that the cadastre and the records of it are very important and I would say that without the catastra, there are no good land books and accurate data, I think they must complement each other. Certainly, without the cadastrian dimensions of the new ones, it will not be possible to establish and restore land books, and what I also find significant is that the addition of land books is prescribed under this proposal to simplify the procedure by no longer requiring the minister to make a decision, and no debate on the composition of the cartridges is being held which contributes to increasing the efficiency of the process, and this is particularly important because of the registration of public water goods and seas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143219	Answer, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, colleague Jelkovac, that's what I said to Mr Milenić, and these are two complementary records. Clearly, the ownership ratio must be based, established, and organised in the land book itself, or in municipal courts that run those land books. And in that part, I absolutely agree that the real estate cadastre left the position, on the one hand the owner, and on the other hand the owner. It is important to establish this relationship through a real estate cadastre where you will know what the land book is doing and on the other hand what the catastre is doing. The cadastre should be implemented, maintained, aligned with the situation on the ground, provided technical data in this section relating to ownership, but all other, all other attributes of real estate, particles, cadastral particles should contain a catalogue of real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143221	And at the end of the day, Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143222	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, here is my colleague Bačić, and I especially welcome Mr. Minister, and I will certainly commend this law. I think it's a really significant step in solving this problem that's bothering us, but I'm going to look back on what you said about the cadastrian measurement. Yes, I agree that something, that's something that needs to be given a certain priority, and I'm glad this law leads to it, but what I know from practice, and I'm going to say here's an example that I have in the city of Pregrad, that we've had a signed agreement for almost two years now, so that whole financial structure solved, the city, the county, the share of it by the DGU, but nothing has been done yet. Obviously, the problem is of course in human potential, I think that we should work to strengthen the state geodetic administration in that sense and would not quite agree with you that Primorska Croatia must have a priority because on the continent there is an extremely large amount of the same things that are out of line, often even some local units in Primorje Croatia have solved it because they have stronger fiscal capacity, and on the continent they do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143223	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you fellow Vesligaj, I don't know why you're not waiting for the start of the measurement of catastrian municipalities in your city, but I'll tell you it's almost as bad, if it's not a measurement or if it's done, and the process of forming a land book is delayed to 7, 8 to 10 years. That's why I said it was important that we changed the Geodetic Measurement Act that would speed up, speed up the geodetic measurement itself, the public exposure, the formation of a real estate cataster and a land book. Because according to your current experience, it would take a very long time to set up a cadastre and a land book, according to the old law. By amending the law we now seem to have found a solution that will come to you when you get some measure It's gonna be a lot faster realized. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143225	Thank you very much. Now we continue with individual debates, it's Mr. Stevo Culey's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143226	Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Orsat Milenić said well he comes from a legal mile, Mr. Bačić comes from geodetics and we still miss Anka Mrak Taritash from construction and then if we could get another law through it, and that would be the Law on the Origin of Property, it would be clear to all of us here. When I heard a gentleman from a legal mile whose zero point would have been somewhere 50, 70 years ago and in order for him to take care of land books, where there, it was the most visible and it would have been the best way to establish this situation, neglecting the previous 100 years when some of them had to leave Croatia for any reason through the vast oceans, but that's one small introduction to what I'm going to say. Like this, Vesna Skare Ozbolt spoke on Goranski Radio in 2007, her statement. I could write a little novel that's been going on and on about what I've been up against in the land books reform, there's this problem in the Gorski Kotar and all of Croatia with the taken-off land, there's a whole team of USKOKs that should work every day for months to determine how the country was stolen, gone. There could be a lot of legal miles to do, if he did, whether he would do it, if we don't know, Vesne Škara Ozbolt is no longer in that mile, but our president also said that there are very big problems with the disaster, land books and with everything else that prevents Croatia's development and investment in Croatia. I won't look back on that either, there's a lot to say. However, coming to the Croatian Parliament, after a year of engagement here, he began to intercept me at the entrance to the Assembly of a small man like himself, Renato Majnarić, who came into contact with me, asked me to help him, in his great problem and he also represented a certain association, return the looted by those adjectives to those who robbed him. It's about a man who's been kidnapped by large assets, to him and his family in a corrupt way by certain officials he's been fighting for years, and it's not like his Golgot case ends up positive because he ended up in psychiatry and he got sick. The family is in a difficult financial situation. So he's lying on millions and they're not his, someone's using them. That his Golgota has been going on for years since his grandmother, since his age, since 100 years ago, not since these 50, 70-year-old zero points that legal expert Orsat Miljenic mentioned when we know their right to change and the Constitution in order to please one man if it is in their best interests and not to please the citizens. He says it like this. Decision, business number Z138722012 year... the proposal for a proposal to register the transfer of ownership rights to particle number 940/12 entered ZK input No 711 as Posedarje, which was destroyed during World War II and has not been renewed to date in its favour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Explanation, Majnarić Igor and Majnarić Renato, by power of attorney, requested the transfer of ownership rights to particle number 940/12 entered in ZK cartridge 711 Posedarje, which was destroyed during World War II and has not been restored to date, Samajnarić Slavka and Ivan Vladimira for their own benefit. However, the list of particulates of Posedarje found that the particle in question was found to be in that ZK cartridge that was destroyed during World War II and has not been restored so far. When you have a solution to a business number of these and the one decidedly stating that the land book was destroyed during World War II and that it was not restored, you can digitize and how you can prove property, question No. One? Question No. 2, how it is possible that in Croatia, the country after World War II suddenly lists on Cyrillic appear for land books where particles are entered and documents were destroyed in World War II. Now some other documents appear on the Cyrillic from Belgrade, the bianco cartridges on which the same particles and even in changed form are added to zeroes and individuals, so what is worth the land if it was under 1 shifts to zero and then becomes worthless and this no. One was used, sold and darkened. I'm tying myself up to Secretary Vesna Scare Ozbolt who knows what she was talking about. I'm not saying there's nothing going on in these cases and it's done because this year, so it's already been done in that case to bring this to justice the case of Renat Majaric, something has been tried. I'm going back to that zero point 50, 70 years ago that legal expert is talking about. Which is why it's important for someone to go from this zero point to being between 50 and 70, 50, 70 years ago, for what? Well, just for what I'm about to read, it's like I knew what he was going to say, so I got ready. He says the Kotar-Zadar People's Committee, the Uzurpation Committee, imagine, a commission for usurpation. What does it mean to usurp, usurp? January 21st, '57. Opačić Lazaru is recognised to own part of the particle 825/18 Murvica, area 12 thousand 227 squares. He says this, he is obliged to pay 10 thousand dinars within 30 days of the power of the solution, which he has never paid, he never says further, to explain that the recognition of this affected area owned by the holder does not exist obstacles because it is not in the middle of state land or in the interference of communications, is not too big and is not busy in the way of an unusual end that it is probably otherwise taking place in which it lies. This area of land should have been recognised as ownership of the holder. '57. In the year Opačić-Lazard and signed by the Devil's Đuro, he gets 12 thousand squares at the entrance to Zadar, whether he's on the left or right, I don't know, and now he's looking for 5 million kunas because it's a meaningless country that just doesn't bother anyone, it's not on the road, it's on nothing. How this size of square was achieved in specific places, the edification commission said. And now someone would simply digitize it with a zero point and translate it. It takes a lot of effort and effort to do so properly. That should be measured again. To question the legality of such documents that had been taken away from someone and given to someone at their disposal and to the enjoyment of their successors, 57 to 70 years of zero points from which they would have taken me and those who had their hands and labors and blisters fenced these plots of drywalls, dug that stone, stacked up their piles and sought their inheritance in America where they had gone. I'm looking ahead of myself and I'm getting acquainted with the project of an orderly country, I support, I will certainly support this law, but I would love it if here first of all, before all the moves that will be taken if I see that the case of the Boricevic, Zrina, Udbin and all the other places that need to be solved, to return the country taken by usurpation, confiscation and other anomalies in our society and I have enough time to say, I'm sorry that, there is no Mrs. Dark Taritas to explain to us the epic robbery of legalization of legally built facilities in physical space for 840,000 property owners that the Ministry of Construction committed against Croatian citizens, 840,000 citizens were damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143227	Thank you very much. You have one replica of Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143228	Thank you. Dear colleague Culey, the fact is that the land books in the Republic of Croatia are unsettled. They've been messy for a very long time, there's been a history of these cases that you've talked about, and don't you think today there's no such thing as alienating someone's land in all sorts of ways, like some judges and so some people who can afford it, and today they're doing these machinations. It can often be read in the media, people testify themselves, and unfortunately, our legal system allows such sinks in land books in which it is possible from someone who has no heirs, to take away his land, even some who have, so... Unfortunately, many people have left, are not left alone, books are not arranged, and today it is a very big problem for agricultural production. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143229	Thank you. Mr. Culey, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143230	We know very well how much our Croatian state lacks in registered ownership of our Republic, these are hundreds of thousands of hectares over which neither the Croatian state has control. As the real owner of the land, as he who enjoys, he who has invested something in what is his, he knows exactly where the stone is in the field, and he knows that it is his. And if we had in the Ministry of Agriculture the case that a single clerk could attribute thousands of acres to his husband and collect incentives to that land based on mountain pastures where no calf was ever born, then we understand the condition of the cadastre of the land book and everything else, and the robbery was, now it's working and it's going to be safe, we just need to check what Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143231	Thank you. Let's move on, Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143232	Dear Vice President, dear Ministers with Associates, I must say at the beginning to support such a bill, I am pleased to be working on this, but here I would refer to a colleague of Culei who has nevertheless pointed out the problems that still exist, which are not foreseen by this law. So we're talking about a zero point from which we're going to solve things. I'm going to point out a few problems here, one problem is related to the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, it's a municipal court in the stone court, namely, I believe it's known, 1943. has burned down the building of the court and land books, so that so far there are no land books for 7 and 8 of the Catastrian municipalities, Oslje, Smokovljani, Visocani, Podidić, Djonta, Doli, Trnovica and Lisac with the fact that here is the last time, in fact 1958. There was something going on in the making of these books, and it didn't work out, and if I'm not mistaken, it's last year, so it's trying to bring the property situation into line with the land, and it's just for the municipality of Trnovica, the other municipalities are still waiting. So we have these seven municipalities on hold where people still don't know what's theirs. So this is one problem that hasn't been solved, and here I warn you to deal with this problem a little bit, I don't know if it's in focus or not, but here's the people from that neighborhood, who lived there, come up, they still don't have land books at all, there's a property that doesn't match the real state. Here's what I see is that it's starting with Trnovico, so keep moving and let's get rid of it as soon as possible. By the way, in general, we have a problem with this inconsistencies of ownership and land books, I believe you're aware of that. It gives me hope for our friendly country of Austria, which is only seven years old. She managed to reconcile the property and the real state, so she could and they had problems like us, maybe a little bit smaller, but she could. Here you would still mention another problem that no one here has said anything about, which is the problem of the Zrin settlement, have you heard of Zrin? Yeah, I guess so. I wish you were from the pay phone, and you'll have a chance to finish your speech if you want to say something. For those who follow HS, there is a Croatian settlement in Sisak-Moslavina County near the border with BiH where in World War II, the entire Croatian population was expelled by partisans, everything was expelled, killed, displaced in a series of settlements around Slavonia, something in Zagreb, and later the Serb population was inhabited, today Croats and their descendants are buying their property to come to their grandfather. So, it's about one of the worst, I'll say, crime that happened in the history of the Croatian state here in communism, and unfortunately these 30 years. Croatian states have not been adequately dealt with by any minister. I hereby invite you to ask around and put into focus the problem of the Zrin municipality which is very large. I have personally met men who are of the origins of Zrin and who are very concerned with being the owners of their grandfathers, that they may know what their particles are, which is their forest, which is their grandfather's. So we have a situation that's been up since '45. the years on Croatian property, so residents of neighbouring Serbian villages wrote down and that's a crime a couple of excellencies to be solved, and we haven't heard a word about it. I have one more thing to say here, when we talk about a zero point, it's hard to go back to the past, but personally I in my family, I believe and many others have situations, I know that it's not the subject of this law, but here's some of your ministry dealing with it, that many in the past talk about World War II had to sell their property for a bagatel. So it wasn't a nationalization, it wasn't a usurp that used to speak to a colleague named Culey, and today this property is legally registered to someone, and it's sold to a bagatel. I know it's hard to talk about with a time-out, but there's a situation where you could make sure that the state degrades those who had to physically under threat of death sell their property to the Church because it was, so we're talking about the communist dictatorship we're talking about Yugoslavia. So here are some three topics that I wanted to show you, or I welcome this effort, and it can always be better, so specifically, and I know about cases where it started to measure, where it started to make books 15 years ago, for example. Razanac municipality, standing by, nothing moved, that plane flew away, the aero-photo-gravimetric method was made, nothing went away. So, I don't know why it didn't go away, it's all paid up, it's done here so you can deal with it here specifically, the Razanac municipality, the Zadarian neighborhood, why nothing went off the dead end. I would still end up here in a slightly different way, the vice president won't blame me a little bit unrelated to the subject, here's the president of the commission in our homeland, so the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, means everything we've said many times still comes out. I think that, however, it will prove true that Prime Minister Plenkovic will soon leave his post here and that he will go the way of Europe, but let's wait another, another day, so colleagues from HDZ here you have here you will have a job to choose a new party leader, so to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143233	I doubt President Juncker will deal with our land books, but well, you've said yours. Uh, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143234	Dear counterpart Zekanovic, some Partisans are still taking up land and signing on to it, but I think we must get rid of the Partisan and Ustasha, that we must view land books as something for the future to develop both the economy and this country. A major problem in land books that are not arranged for agriculture is the inability to delete borders between particles when you round your property i.e. There is a possibility, but this possibility costs a lot, and we are talking about the depravity of the family farms and the land they have, and simply the state has not found a cheap model for those particles to be wiped out and turned into a large particle. Because of the unsettled books, many agricultural economies will have major problems especially if they have taken EU funds because they will not be able to maintain economic size because they will not make a contract with anyone to rent that land. And that's why they're going to wipe their land out of the Ark. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143235	Answer, the esteemed representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143236	My colleague Lenart, so what you said is just on the trail of your liberal HSS party, which is on its way down, I'll just, I'll repeat what he told you to a respected minister, so there's a settlement Zrin, there's a settlement Zrin that's completely evicted and where hundreds of people are killed, Croatians are neither guilty nor indebted because they weren't members of any army. Today, residents of nearby settlements who entered the property of these people are still living in the village. And then you have the courage to justify something like that at all, and I really don't understand that, in the 21st century, you could be robbing, stealing and killing in some way justifying it. So I've been extremely clear here is one population, is one group exorcising another group, and you've taken your side you're sitting next to Mr. White girl. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143237	We have this one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Beljak. What's he hurt at, what's the point?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143238	Thank you very much, I think he's hurt, that colleague Zekanovic hurt Please. I said, 238, I told my colleague Reiner [[Employee: There is a Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure have points I ask you which point is injured?]] Yes, I am, but you're not listening, you're listening, you're being very, very upset by your colleague Zekanovic talking about Juncker and Plenkovic, so you didn't listen to me [[No, you didn't say until your colleague Lenart whispered to you, but good.]] And now he's hurt the Rules of Procedure, first he raises his tone, second nobody asked him anything, I don't understand what he's talking about at all. [[No, I'm not at all.]] Mr. Lenart said that we should not deal with the past but rather with the future, while counterpart Zekanovic and others have kept us in the past. Yes, it happened both in Zrina and in Bojčevac and in the masses of others, in the crowd of others, and here in Jarmina from fellow Stevica Culej it was a German place, so there was no one asking questions there, and it should ask the pirates what was with these people. The Rules of Procedure have been injured, and you have, you have not given me a word to say. [[Intruder: Well, no injured Rules of Procedure, therefore...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143239	I determine whether or not the Rules of Procedure were injured, you hurt him with it 24 seconds longer than you should have, for example, I didn't warn you anyway and I won't warn you, but you actually hurt the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected representative Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143240	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Zekanovic, I'm glad we all agree that we should work on land books, that procedures should be speeded up. Namely, the restoration of land books began long ago in some, especially in our area where, where there are no judicial advisers who will carry out the procedure to the end and indeed here I appeal to all of us that, in future, both the plan and the request for geodetic administration, and also to the ministry, we can focus on what needs to be done because that is the only way we can speed up economic development. The more this delicacy is too big and then it happens that the land cannot be put into operation precisely because of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143241	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143242	Dear colleagues. Of course, when the law is good, it should be supported, and in this case too, and we all see this problem of the depravity and the messiness of land books that plague Croatia and the Croatian economy, Croatian society and that is what needs to be solved. I will, however, take the opportunity to repeat these problems that I have seen, which have been reported to me by the people of the field. The problem means, the Municipal Court of Stone, those 8 municipalities, something has started, but the better and the problem of Zrina, here, I beg you, put it in focus, try to solve it. There are people who are the real owners of this land, these properties, and it would mean a lot to them to at least be here, many years after it happened compensated for a huge crime that took place in that village.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143243	We now have the final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, which will be attended by the respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143244	Thank you very much. Here I would like to end, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, just say that land books are the basis, essentially the main brake of development of the Republic of Croatia and I am in the speech and name of the club and listed all these reasons, and here I would just repeat it once more. The key is that these books haven't worked in years, if it hadn't been for Austria, if people hadn't done something, they wouldn't have today, they'd probably still be in those caves, but very little was done in those books, and when he was a stranger during Austria, the government, then the books were made. So we all need to look at this problem as a problem of development in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia that is holding onto investment, I mentioned the problem of agglomeration in Sinj, the Cetina region, that because of the lack of people simply one of the problems is that it cannot be entered into the books of all these particles and it is a brake to start this project work and that 250 million kunas are withdrawn funds that are approved and important. However, we have here, Minister, many problems that relate to this. Our property which has not been settled in units of local self-government, which will be my next law, is not paid for the right of tele-operate service because, as it is not settled, the ownership of roads where local roads go, and here in agriculture it is not. In agriculture, you have given the possibility that whose property is not to be used and that compensation is paid. I mean, just all the laws that, I'll repeat that this law brings a lot of good, that wouldn't be better, probably would, so the process is speeding up, there's an opportunity accelerated through the public notebook, the other and old way of writing, so we have digitalization,... It's on paper, and in reality it's not like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In reality, the problem is that we don't have people to enroll all these governments in land books. And that's the key problem. So the key problem is this and, of course, one of the basic problems is for what we say, teleopers have the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia for years, and they don't pay the right of service because simply, where their infrastructure goes, there's no owner. We were giving the amendment here at the time, me and my colleague Grmoja where we talked about being and it was even past counseling, to be property managers, if it's a local road, and not registered to the city, it's a local road and manages a city or municipality, to pay the municipality or city. And that even passed the consultation, but in the evening before that the law met with Prime Minister Plenkovic and Tomaskovic, a member, who was just deleted from the e- Consultation. Imagine, teleoperators who have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, after meeting HT leaders, German owners, probably, I don't know, which is why it was done either because of good relations with Angela Merkel, but is not in the interest of the people, is not in the interest of local self-government, is not in the interest of development and is not in the interest of justice and justice. You took advantage of the teleopers. So I think, Minister, any, any shift, and here there's a shift, we'll support this, the club will support it because it's going better, but I'll tell you again. You in your systems have extra people,... However, in places where there should be people like the cadastre, I said that only two people in Sinj, in this, were working on land books. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have 4, one at Vrlica, one was on vacation or I don't know, sick leave, and of course they're going to brake the project because it can't be solved. I ask you, once again on behalf of that people and these projects and these investments due to the survival of these people, you have extinguished the Municipal Court of Sinj, in the Cetina region, which is higher by the number of residents of Lika-Senj County, which is larger than Međimurje County territorially + from Krka to Neretva in Dalmatia, there is no municipal court. And what do you think,... Dalmatin burns? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They solve in the coast of concessions, money, money, care for those debris, care for investments, down in Split, so you took away our right to decide our own fate in Dalmatia, and that is not you and your predecessor, Mr Milenić, who shut down that municipal court, you took away the right for people to decide their own fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143245	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143246	Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First, I want to thank everyone for the quality and good debate on the proposal of this law and what I think is somehow common to get out that there is one consensus here that this law is one step forward, towards a better system and I am glad that as far as I can see, we will support it. It's clear to me that there are problems that this law may not be able to solve so quickly, which have existed before, one of the fundamentals that many of you have pointed out is that for certain areas we don't even have land books and we're working on and we've given everything here and concrete deadlines, some have said that they're a little optimistic, we're going to try to do everything we can to respect those deadlines, so where we don't have any data, we said that it's been 5 years and these others where we have deposits of documents to make it 3 years, we're really going to work on it. As far as people are concerned, I have to say that we in Croatia have a total of somewhere at the level of all land-booking departments, courts, about 800, sometimes more, sometimes it's less, authorized land-booking referendums that make decisions, which make solutions, and if there is actually a large imbalance in the number of resolved, pending cases, we can actually in these areas and strengthen your answer immediately that if we really have a smaller number here, we will certainly not be the cause that some EU funds do not withdraw and we will do so very quickly if we need to strengthen or move some of the subject elsewhere. What I said in the opening statement myself, there is a further major problem of the real situation on the ground and the recorded real rights in land books. In fact, it's clear to us that some who died a long time ago are still listed or some who sold them long ago, and those who bought them didn't sign up, so it's completely incorrect for us. We here offer a very good instrument means an individual proper procedure in which these things need to be solved. This difficult state can make one cut and it can change that situation because the right of ownership is a constitutionally guaranteed category, there is an activity to be sought means the owner himself who predends the situation repairs. This individual correct procedure, it offers this very mechanism to make it faster because in this law, it one thread that passes through the whole law is faster, faster and faster. The whole series of these municipalities we've been talking about that we don't have books, the Boricevic was, it's open because now we have, at this point in Dubrovnik is working on setting up six land books even, so it's done, but these are procedures that have their own processes and that have their own course. Some of the injustices in history, we can't solve this law on land books, there are some other laws based on which such things can and can be done so that I think this law offers a really big step in relation to what we have, there were words about both catastra and land books. Katastran is a separate institution that takes care of actually more about the technical characteristics of a particular particle and land books, these are departments in a court that actually takes care of property, about real rights, about services, about co-ownership, about building rights, it is entered in land books, but during all these years we have made one database of common data both for the cadastre and for land books, so that now and when land-booked extracts are obtained in principle, it also contains those data that are kept by the catastra. A lot has been done but there is still a lot to do and what I can say, here from this debate, what is particularly indicated for Zrin and all of it, we will in particular analyse and here we must really not allow some EU project to fall on us, not to withdraw the money and be the reason for the unresolved situation. All that's up to us, to the land books, to the schedule of the people we have, we'll do everything. Thank you very much again for this debate. I deeply believe this law will be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143247	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143248	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, both we from the HSS and I, of course, agree with you that and this law is a tool for the construction of land books and that land books are a prerequisite for quality projects and for economic growth and development and development of agriculture, ultimately, which we all wish for. In order for the situation to be settled, citizens must be motivated to do so, some activities and acts we have made possible, they have implemented legalisation procedures, and now that they have requested the document to do so, one act is issued and if it is five co-owners, they have to pay the administrative fee five times. I think it's too much cost for our citizens, that it's bad in the rule that determines and you have to change it because the goal is that citizens have a legalized state, that we have a clean state, and then when one solution is issued, one act, why pay the administrative fee five times, I think we have to relieve our citizens of that cost, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143249	Thank you. Dear Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143250	We're trying to really simplify and cheape the procedure and that's all one thread that goes through this law, all we can do is make it simpler and after this law comes into force, then we're going to do a revision of certain regulations and we're going to discuss this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143251	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143252	Dear Minister, I'm glad...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143253	Kola Zekanovic Comrade Bulj, you are not yet a colleague of Bulls, for the time being. [[/Intruder Zekanovic: Did you tell me?]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143254	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the key problem is what is missing people, I was telling you, you did not warn, all changes to the law that go to positive and there are and it would be incorrect and unfair to say that there are no positive changes, which will speed up what is most important in the land books but the key problem is the lack of people where they should be and that is in departments where this library, where the enrollment is done in land books. That's a huge problem. I repeat, in Dalmatinska Zagora this is a key problem and it is one of the brakes of development because there is no one to enter and the possibility of the collapse of numerous projects. And so once again I warn you, to a good extent return the municipal courts to the Dalmatian Zagora, which is forgotten, it is cry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143255	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143256	Dear Minister, I'm not even asking for an answer. I'll just tell you what, don't forget Zrin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143257	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143258	Final proposal of the Law on Land Books, second reading, P.Z. No. 603. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Land Books. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 79 for, 8 abstentions and 1 against the Law on Land Books passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143259	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Electronic Communications, and first reading, P.Z. No. 400 Proposer: Miro Bulj, representative at the Croatian Parliament; Proposer is representative Miro Bulj based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Dear Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143260	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, Your Honor. The Law on Electronic Communications regulates the area of natural electronic communications. These amendments, which I propose and supplement, regulate the question of compensation for the use of general goods and real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional (regional) self-government and property owned by other legal and physical persons. In order to achieve the principles and objectives of this law, the agencies are hereby required to jointly use electronic communications, infrastructures and other related equipment, in particular for the protection of human health, the protection of the environment and the protection of space, the avoidance of excessive construction which is economically inefficient or physically inappropriate, the protection and preservation of cultural goods and national security. The amendments and additions to this law will essentially make two key changes, the first change is if there is a pillar technically on the Athens column, i.e. Base stations, there is a possibility that acceptance of the equipment of another operator, the operator must enable another operator to be reconstructed. This would reduce to essentially too many base stations because when we look at just how many base stations are placed illegally and every teleoper in the space sets up its base stations. In other EU countries, the base stations are arranged to be placed on the same pillar with the upgrade and the prescribed surcharge to this teleoperator who owns the Athens pillar. This is how we see excessive construction of the base stations because everyone does their own Athens column and mostly how we all know without a building permit. So that's what we're saving the environment and, of course, space because space is the most important thing, only HT and Vipnet have over 220 base stations, but that's far more and more for the rest of us not to tell them. The obligation of HACOM to advise HACOM units as a regulatory body to the competent authorities, units of local self-government before making a decision on the joint use of infrastructure under the existing law if the operator is a user in order to protect human health and the environment, the space for unaccompanied access to HACOM infrastructure as a body can make a decision on access. Unlike the Republic of Croatia in other EU countries, teleopers cannot set up base stations without the consent of local self-government. And most importantly, this law of obligation and height would determine this... the obligation and level of compensation for the right of way which would have been defined by law and not by a regulation adopted by the five-member HACOM Council which until yesterday had been in the same building as the body either with HT in the same building. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By way of arbitrary reduction of the compensation provided for in the Regulation, which individual operators pressure on HACOM, the Council of HACOM, the Council of the Council, to reduce them, and the Council may reduce the income of the unit of local self-government, the regional self-government, and the result of a teleoperator which is already too large. What does that mean? If teleopers have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia and we have over 400, I have a list of units of local self-government that demand to be paid for their right of service, we're talking about units of local self-government that teleoperators slow them down, they have to come to what is the obligation of the service to pay. So we're witnessing that privatization telecommunications is at risk of national security, taking over a foreign teleoper, our telecommunications that people paid out of their pocket through, it's become property foreign and now they're not paying us the right of service. With, so I have a list of units here, 400 units of local self-government suing it, and that's a minimum of what we should do. And I'm exactly in this law if you've seen it written, and I'm going to show you that later, and I'm going to show you in what way it's actually supposed to be, it's tabled to pay for the right of service. The current annual fee referred to in the HACOM Regulation shall be between 2 and 10 kuna per metre square metre. According to the availability of information, the same fee in neighbouring Ljubljana is 3 euros per metre. And that's a discount price because a 30-year concession is agreed, or 90 euros per metre and is paid all 30 years in advance. Here's one reason why we don't need to go far, we'll just look here in Ljubljana and you'll see how the teleopers pay that amount. And I also made a table where, the table is shown if it's going to pay a year, more annually to have some certain discounts. Of course, that proposal to change if the government accepts it and, of course, the government has not accepted it in its opinion and I will explain it now for what. In the Republic of Croatia, the length of DTK cable sewerage used by teleoperators is approximately 25 thousand km. If a price of 10kn per year for cable sewerage would be applied, it would mean a minimum of 250 million kuna and operators also have a large number of Athens pillars, i.e. Base stations, stand-alone street cabinets, phone booths, only over 200 thousand pillars for the air network for which according to the Regulation, according to this proposed rules for columns should pay land compensation of 4 kuna. Dear colleagues, today's opinion shows that today's government opinion and debate will also show the hypocrisy of this government, will show that there are however double criteria, procedures, and that this government directly favours teleopers. To begin with, we will return only a little bit in history, almost 2 years ago in the 7th of May 2017 in the Assembly we discussed amending the law of this now given, by electronic communications proposed by then by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At that time, my colleague Grumo and I pointed out that the teleoperators were affected. We warned that teleopers did not pay any compensation for the right to travel on the general and public goods and on the properties where the owner is officially unknown. My colleague and I, Grmoja, have then instructed and several amendments to fill these holes in the law that teleoperators honestly pay compensation for the right routes used, which are used, and this is a minimum obligation, when we know what it would mean for local self-government units, I remember then, I will now repeat, there was essentially a public debate and e-consultation where it came to the conclusion that both the Transport Committee, where there was an e-consumption that not only would be paid to the owners of teleoperators this fee but also to the property managers, regardless of whether the unit of local self-government, the health homes and it agreed to this in the evening before the law was passed, the Prime Minister was also publicly announced and the head of Tomaskovic, i.e.e. The president of HT's administration and it's been erased from the e-consultation and it's essentially against the thoughts of the business... To erase it from e-consultation, although it was a deal for the teleoper to pay for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? Because the biggest teleoper's profit in the EU and Europe area is in Croatia, I repeat, 43% and 20% in Europe. With what they don't pay for the right of service, they don't need a building permit for the base stations and they use our space, rewarding him however they think. As soon as I see these pillars set up, horizontal pillars wherever they come up with it. I mentioned one example, all of you were on the Sinj Alca, I invite everyone to come again because the Sinj Alka is very important, our brand, it's not even the maroons of the century when they didn't have the cables, they lipo HT put over the maroon. Would you do that in Germany? Were you in Germany through the park put those cables together and connected? We'd have to make a project, get permission, invest people who do the work should pay them. So he's allowed the teleopers to act like they're coming to their senses. The government then refused our amendment, here is Mr Tomislav Mihotic from the ministry, he gave an explanation and I took out a phonogram to read it for discussion and I will literally quote it. This Annex shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Communications proposes an additional word ‘local self-government units’ cannot be accepted for the reason that a unit of local self-government other than the owner of the property cannot be authorised, an authorisation for the right of travel on that property, given the general rules on ownership and other matters and real rights and the applicable administrative case-law in accordance with... Operators don't pay fees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the right of travel, there is exclusively to the owner of the property on which she made electronic communication, communication infrastructure. This argument would be convincing that this same Parliament did not adopt a new Agricultural Land Act in February 2018. In that law prescribed in addition to the other provision in the Law... Lands are particularly interesting articles 14 and 15 that say that the state can rent and land in private ownership that is abandoned and which is the owner of an unknown and unknown residence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The lease is referred to the units of local self-government and, after a certain number of years, the lease belongs to the local self-government of the owner of the lease land can no longer ask for it. Now, gentlemen of the ruling majority, I'd like to know how in one law you say the owner can't be in charge and in another you say he can? Are you the same government at all, these are the same ministries? And tell me which ministry here is right? Is this the ministry that passed this Agriculture Act or the one that brought about electronic communications? So double standards where teleopers are affected where private property is not highlighted here. And this is the key question why we're not all the same under the law, and why are teleopers being protected here? Because they must apply the same rules to agricultural land and to the right path of service, I don't know who to compensate for. I am asking and I will seek to answer this question, from now on until the end of this term, as long as I am engaged in politics but I think it is exclusively pleasing to teleoperators because of their excessive influence in, means too much influence in the media because they are big advertisers, it must be courageous and loudly said that we should have the courage to talk about it, but because of equality, because of the Constitution, I will talk about it regardless of what these advertisers will certainly influence the perception of the media, he will try that because I know when I first mentioned this, a media published on the cover, stop Bulja, bring us back to the Stone Age. No, I'm just asking that RS teleopers behave like they do in their countries and the entire EU and that they have no huge profits. The key problem with this is that this government has double standards and that it favors teleopers, however and wherever it can be. This is the conclusion and that's why I gave this law and I repeat, the government of the Republic of Croatia favors teleopers however and wherever it can, with double standards, and I'm going to tell you now for a number of reasons. Croatia is at the bottom, at the bottom at the speed of the internet. The first is corruption, at the top, and the biggest profits are teleopers, I'll repeat. The largest profits in the Republic of Croatia have in the EU teleopers have in the Republic of Croatia. We're first in corruption, and we've got the worst Internet. What's he saying? To accommodate teleoperators, not to protect national interests, and from the moment our DTK network was privatized, in a way that was put into foreign hands, all of what our parents invested, our older ones being invested, all of it is dear gentlemen, thrown under their feet, and this way the government favors only foreign teleopers. Only. And I don't see any reason why they don't pay the right of service, if they pay in Slovenia, why they don't pay in Zagreb, they pay something, it's Zagreb even regulated, but in most parts of Croatia, teleopers don't pay the right of service, and this law would solve the problem, and I even gave it a table, as much as a meter of long agricultural land, building land, road infrastructure, submarine, means everything, as many pillars as the antenna pillars come in, bearing columns, but teleoperators do whatever they want, I repeat, respected secretaries, I expect from you an answer. Is this the same government? In one law, a non-owner may be charged a fee in respect of agricultural land, i.e. the rent, and in the second, as far as the teleoperator is concerned, is not required to pay the fee or the rent. And it's the same government. So you're just protecting teleopers that have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. 42% gain the margins they draw from the Republic of Croatia and do not invest in the Republic of Croatia. Imagine, in areas where I come from, 2/3 of Croatia and other developed regions, how much money it is to local self-government. Well, I said, 250,000 miles, we've got cable. There are 400 units of local self-government, they didn't even register it, 400 units of local self-government are required the right to be paid, they have to be prosecuted by courts. HACOM's good because he's under pressure. Repeatedly HACOM and HT were in the same building for years, in the same office, literally. It's all about how good teleopers are. The way in which the law of 2018 was not adopted, i.e. where it was withdrawn from the public debate i.e. Downloaded illegally from e-Consultation the right of service and not only the owner but also the manager of the property to be entitled to the compensation of the teleoper, it disappeared overnight after the meeting of Andrej Plenkovic in the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the director of HT, i.e. HT's chairman, Mr. Tomaskovic. We do not have the right to allow as the largest body, that the teleoperators in the Republic behave at the very least as they would not imagine to behave in Germany, where it comes from. I repeat, we shouldn't, they're setting up a base station without a building permit, this House can't make that decision. They do not pay the right of service to owners and real estate managers, units of local self-government, while at the same time students do not have the equipment they need, have no toilets, have no ability to advance, in such a way as to have the same conditions as other children, however, that money remains the German firm they are pulling out. Many children have no opportunity, in those areas where the right of service is not paid, to have a pediatrician. Why? Because that teleoper doesn't pay the right to serve. I've done the table, and I'm sorry that there's little people's interest in this subject, but this is a key topic and a topic of national security and national interest. Telecoms are, above all, national security and national interest. And in the end, I'll do it one more time when they come here young. Croatia has the slowest Internet, and the biggest profits are teleopers. The biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia, and we have the worst Internet, and the first is Croatia by corruption, which means that our political elites exclusively favor foreign teleopers without worrying about the interest of young people to stay here and to invest that money here. And that's the problem, and that's the agenda we have to change, dear secretary. It can't be one for agricultural land and the other for teleopers. So you're the same government, you can't pass different laws in the same government, same government. So why do we agree, so all the laws we've brought here, we've worked against interest, we're mostly not for a man, for a young man, so the Agricultural Land Act, so that agricultural land can be sold to foreigners in 2020, 1.1, while Croats can't buy in Hungary. And we emptied Slavonia. It's a mockery. It's a betrayal of national interest. I repeat, I won't, this may be a difficult word but I can't imagine that we can so agree to sell agricultural land, empty our homeland, I can't imagine that our teleopers have the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia as if we're in the EU colony. Why? For good relations with Angela Merkel. And it is more important for me that this young man, for us, should be more important for this young man to stay in Croatia, to invest in Croatia, than for Prime Minister Juncker, Angela Merkel, or I don't know, me with someone. And we are the highest home. We were elected by the people as representatives while we were here and I know that this topic was not opening, it is not easy to open the topic of teleoper's obligations, they are, they have huge money, they have huge profits, they have influence in the media as advertisers, and of course it's not easy. I repeat, the first time I was talking about this topic, the illegal setting up of base stations without a building permit, and when I said they weren't paying for the right of service, that was when the cover was screaming one medium, stop Mira Bulja, all the teleopers, bring us back to the Stone Age. I am not looking for anything other than the Croatian teleoperators acting as a country where the rest of the EU and Europe come from. Even in Serbia, those who have the right to serve and need a building permit to set up their antenna pillars. So these two things are important, building permits, they don't need them, and they don't pay for the right of service. In all other countries, they need a building permit to set up antenna pillars and pay for the right of service. In Slovenia, Ljubljana is simply 3 euros long or square meters, please. And that money stays there in Ljubljana, there are Slovenians and in Croatia that money goes to other countries, third countries and therefore we don't have a health system, the homes of health are falling apart, we don't have a doctor, of course the guilt is that the decentralised funds have not been used properly, however, to keep this money in local self-government, then it would be for kindergartens both for schools and for other infrastructures. And I repeat once again, this government has passed two laws that are biting each other, the law in one you're saying that no owner can be the owner of the property, and that's in the case of agricultural land, and here around the teleoperator, you're saying that the owner can't have, so be, to have the right to compensation. Without a horizon that manages real estate, without a sign of what local self-government has paved that road, which regulates that road, you don't allow it to be charged and while in agriculture to guess who knows who, you do. So it is time for the Croatian Parliament to work in the interest of man and not in the interest of groups that milk money from the Republic of Croatia. Any teleopers, any banking lobby, anyone's lobby. It's our obligation, our constitutional obligation. Not asking me much more than what's in Germany where the teleoperator comes from or I don't know Austria or Sweden, just to behave the same, so I asked that question here, Prime Minister Plenkovic, and I haven't received an answer yet, on the current watch, which is why teleopers don't behave in the Republic of Croatia, how do they behave in countries where they come from? I didn't get that answer and that was the current clock at the 11th month. Last year. he said Oleg Butkovic, the minister of transport, would not respond, what he would answer because they must first meet with Tomaskovic because we must not allow any dynasty to be over the government and the parliament, so it is the Misetic dynasty or whatever its name is. So the Misetic family won't take me here and he'll run me. So we've been chosen by the Parliament, let's disband this Parliament. So let's have minimum courtesy for this people and for these young people. Let's not take away their future. Teleoperators gentlemen, they must pay the right of service, that is their obligation and that these budgets of the unit of local self-government are directed towards young people, according to health care, according to education, according to the infrastructure, according to the economy, to be reduced, to reduce local taxes, and not we allow money from our pockets to be paid by teleoperators, of course, to the mass they blame, that is their interest, but our political elites. They pay for their campaigns, they pay for their furniture, they bring them here, they pay for your jumbo posters, commercials, they do all that, yeah. Otherwise, it would be different. Gentlemen, Prime Minister, I am disappointed by the opinion of the Government which is contrary to the other law that I have said, which works against the interest of agricultural land, which the owner may not receive compensation and here which you are precisely Mr. Mihotic, from my bottom end, I am sorry to say, you had to justify, and you are aware that I am right and that it suits the teleopers, you know that, you just got that assignment to defend it now. Mr. Here's the Government, here's the young people who are looking here, I don't know if the interested public is watching, Mr. Mihotić knows I'm right, but that's an order but it's against the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it's against the interest of your future, and I'm glad that you are here insignificant numbers, but remember that only this government and all of the former governments have worked against the interest of man, in the interests of local self-government, not of interested lobbying, teleoperators, banks and not all of whom, today Croatia would be a developed country and not be a colony where you don't have to pay the right of the teleoperators, where you have the worst Internet in the Republic, where you have the biggest profits of teleopes and we're the first in corruption. And that's the formula of what you don't... Say it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I wish Tomo Mihotic, this is my question that I asked him to tell if this is the same government. How can one law not be charged by the owner, i.e. It's a lease, and in the other one it can't. Because you're hitting teleopers. And you, Mr. Mihotić, explained that amendment at the time. Here I go again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143261	Thank you very much. Before I give my word for the replica, let us first welcome the students and students of the Faculty of Law in Rijeka who watch us from the gallery although we... Although we are few here, unfortunately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Applause.]] The replica was reported by the esteemed representative of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143262	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, I was just making a statement to the media here in front of the assembly and they asked me about conflicts within the ruling coalition, about conflicts within political parties and I told them, look at this man in the Croatian Parliament while others are fighting for the interests of Croatian citizens. And I think it's time for us all to focus on specific problems, to leave these conflicts and what happens and who are only in the public interest. Unfortunately, this proposal of yours that goes in favour of the units of local self-government and therefore for the benefit of Croatian citizens, means that our people cannot get the attention of either the media or the Croatian public at all. And I thank you for that fight you're showing for the little man, for the common man, and I hope someone will hear about it. Here from the ruling coalition there are two MPs, in line with SDP 1, he is not a representative, or Col. Varga is no longer in the SDP, so there is no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143263	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bulj, I guess he wants to answer whether or not he didn't answer, but I know he certainly wants to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143264	The Honorable Chairman is pleased to me that you know our wishes but I would really like this law to have an echo because this law would solve essentially one national important problem would have what they have in other EU countries to pay for teleoperate service rights and to have equality in the Republic of Croatia as well as in their own countries. But here, political elites, exclusively colleagues of Grmoy, work in the interest of those whose sponsors are. It's not easy to hit teleopers, it's not... on teleopers because they're advertisers, they're advertisers and parties are dependent on them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, in the media, they have influence. However, I am doing this for justice, because of the future of these children that this money remains the Republic of Croatia and that it is invested in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, the funniest thing is that Croatia is the first to corruption and has the worst Internet, and the biggest profits are made by teleopers... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143265	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoje will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143266	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the audience at the gallery. Dear colleagues, we all know the position of the ruling on any proposal that comes from the opposition's ranks. Unfortunately, the media here often conveys only conflicts from the Croatian Parliament, so when an incident happens, it is transmitted and all of those suggestions that we keep presenting to the Croatian public every week cannot get attention. Here last Friday we had MOST's proposal for a microsolar law that would make Croatia an energy independent. We know that every county gives at least 400,000 kuna as a heating aid. With this money, our poorest families could be invested in microsolars, built on their houses, making these families energy independent and eradicating energy poverty. The proposal was rejected by the ruling. I haven't seen a draft in the media. My colleague Bulj insists that this is all he wants for the teleoperators to behave in Croatia as they behave in the countries of origin they come from. In Croatia they do not need a building permit when setting up base stations. He gave the bill to change it, it was rejected. We can have these and those attitudes about radiation as harmful as it is, where base stations need to be set up, but it can't happen that in one serious state to set up a base station you don't need a building permit. At the same time Deutsche Telecom, or HT, when the base stations are set up in Germany, a building permit must be issued. And now we have a proposal here that means it's going back to the benefit of the citizens. Teleopers in Croatia make a huge profit. From that get, and that's not the problem, we want, this is the market. We want whoever's on the market to make a profit. But we also want the end-users to benefit from it. How's our Internet? What are the speeds of our Internet? Among the worst in Europe and the profit that is made is very, very big, I don't know if it's the biggest, it should be, it should be examined. But I think it would be good to go back a little bit in history. Almost 2 years ago, in the 7th of May 2017, we discussed amendments to the laws on electronic communications proposed by the Government. My colleague Bulj and I then pointed out the advantage of teleoperators, we warned that teleopers do not pay any compensation for the right path on the general and public good or on properties where the owner is formally unknown. We've instructed several amendments to fill these gaps in laws and teleopers to pay a fair fee for the right route to be used. The government has rejected our amendments, Mr Tomislav Mihotic of the ministry refused amendments with the following explanation. This is the case in the phonogram of the debate, the explanation of this amendment in the section to be set out in Article 28(4). The Law on Electronic Communications provides additional words: ‘the units of local self-government’ cannot be accepted for the reason that a unit of local self-government other than the owner of a property cannot be entitled to the right of travel on that property, given the general rules on ownership and other real rights and the applicable administrative case law in accordance with which the obligation of an infrastructure operator to pay a road-right fee exists solely for the owner of the property on which it has made the electronic communications infrastructure, the completion of the quote. I welcome you to visit the Croatian Assembly. This argument may therefore be convincing that this same assembly did not adopt a new Agricultural Land Act in February 2018. In addition to the other provision, provisions on the lease of agricultural land are laid down in that law. In particular, the members of 14 and 15 are interesting, Articles 14 and 15, which say that the state can rent and land in private property that is abandoned, and if the owner is unknown or unknown. The lease is paid at the expense of the local self-government unit and after a certain number of years the lease belongs to the local self-government and the owner of the land can no longer ask for the rent. So, gentlemen of the ruling majority, I'm interested in what practice it is to say in one law that no owner can be entitled to compensation, and in another, you say he can. You're contradictory, you're in conflict with yourself. You are not only in conflict with this among your coalition partners now, but you are in conflict with yourself and with common sense. I'm asking you a question to answer here who's right? Is the right Ministry of Agriculture Tomislav Tolusic and the Government of Andrej Plenkovic who voted the Law on Agricultural Land or is right to mean the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Butkovic who tells us this cannot be done as counterpart Bulj suggested. So I'm asking you to answer me how in one law no owner can charge a fee or a fee. a lease, and in the second law passed by the same government, which should be passed by the same government, you say it can't. So you admit that you have double standards and that you're guessing teleopers wherever you get a chance, wherever you get a chance. There is no point in reading here now the Agricultural Land Act, but perhaps only this Article means Article 15(2), if the owner of the land is unreachable or the unknown residence of the assets referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be paid in favour of the owner to the specific account of the unit of local self-government in whose area the land is located. In accordance with Article 49(1) of this Act, where the owner of the land does not request payment of the funds paid in the name of the lease from a specific unit of local self-government in which the land is located within 10 years of the date of introduction into possession of the asset allocated in accordance with Article 49(1) of this Act, the amount shall be allocated to the owner of the land. Why do you have double standards, why do you have double standards, why in one law you say it can do this, and in another law you say it can't do the same thing as you voted in the Agricultural Land Act? Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to answer this question, answer without an environment, and tell us why you gave us an explanation that this proposal by colleagues of Bulja cannot be implemented if your government has passed the same provision in another law. And to whom do you guess, do you personally favor teleopers or do you favor a minister or someone from the government? It is time for this practice to be interrupted, that here in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatia the government is passing laws that go in favour of Croatian citizens, and there are plenty of MPs who are local leaders and I think their interest would also be to adopt such a proposal because it would provide considerable resources in the budgets of local self-government units, and then local leaders, city councils or municipal councils would use it to improve the lives of people living in the area. The interest of citizens must be our first priority, here I call once again all MPs unfortunately there is not much of us there is usually so on Fridays when there is no vote, when the vote then the tide comes here this fills up these constituency chairs, vote, vote the laws, that I have now come to tell you that I have been making statements here in front of the assembly, but if you follow the assembly sessions and the debates almost so I am inventory here in the assembly. So to me, you can't possibly pass it on to me. I understand this job with responsibility, responsibility and behaviour, and it would be good for other MPs to act as representatives of the Most, and I think that we are above average also present at parliamentary sessions, in parliamentary debates, and that in these discussions, which also shows parliamentary statistics, we participate above average. Once again, I call on the government of the Republic of Croatia and the parliamentary representatives of the ruling majority, if this is at all one entity, it seems to me that there are several entities that are conflicted with each other, to support this legislative proposal by my colleagues Bulja, and I personally thank him for the endurance he shows in order to protect the interests of Croatian citizens and the health and interests of Croatian citizens, but also to show that we are all here to show that Croatia is an equal member of the EU. Not to sit by the table but to sit at the table, to respect ourselves, to respect our people, to respect our citizens and to hold to our country because if we do not hold to our country, if we do not hold to Croatia, the others will certainly not hold to us. We cannot allow one rule to apply in Croatia, and in other EU countries the rules apply, which are in favour of their citizens. Here, I invite you once again to support this proposal and thank you for listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143267	Now again, but on behalf of the promoter, speak the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143268	Thank you very much. Here I would just at last emphasize what's most important, that 400 units of local self-government have sued teleoperators and that HAKOM is doing very badly because HAKOM now sets the price and, of course, I said that there are various pressures of different dynasties on these people simply, they were even in the same space, HT in the same building and T-Com, so for years it was essentially the same body. The interest here, as my colleague Grumoja said, is that teleopers have the same conditions and behave in the Republic of Croatia as they do in countries where they come from. It is the only intensities of this law, and that building permits must be made for base stations, they have in other countries of Europe, the EU, only in Croatia. So I repeat, 400 units of local self-government are seeking the right of service to have paid teleopers. That's what teleopers refuse and this proposal solves the problem because calling, as counterpart Grumoja said, that the Agriculture Act, that non-owners can charge compensation, and in this law cannot. I once again appoint a representative of the Government, as it is possible for non-owners to pay compensation for the Law on Agricultural Land, and here on land, i.e. Where they run, he's not an owner, but he manages real estate, he goes to local self-government land money, and here he can't go to local self-government. I don't even see the managers, i.e. Real estate managers. Me and my colleague, Grumo, when we were making this proposal, we thought, this e-Consultation had passed, however, overnight it was wiped out because the evening before that law and reading in the Parliament was found by Prime Minister Plenkovic, I repeat, the director. The director of HT, Mr. Tomašković and was deleted from the e-Advisership, so you remember that, and then me and my colleagues Grumoja gave amendments here and warned that this was not done, that it was not so convenient for foreign teleopers, that it was more important that this money remained JLS, essentially natural and legal persons. They should pay you, fellow MPs, if your land goes through their infrastructure, we should pay our citizen, a man who lives on the Ilva, let's say, Ogorje or in the hinterland of Neretva, he is obliged and those, to you citizens if you are watching this pay. If it goes through your field, your particles, not that they pay nothing, and otherwise, dear citizens, who is watching and listening to this, you paid for that phone infrastructure that goes across our city surfaces, local, state and ownership of you and yours. And now they don't pay even the right to serve. Imagine that it's minimal, I've set this exact table exactly how much the area of agricultural land comes,... across the sea, through building land, through asphalt,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's exactly a table, and here's the table, and it's been done by experts, by people who've been dealing with this problem for years, and that shows that teleopers are making a terrible use of it, i.e. Our policy pleases the teleopers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So our political elites favor teleoperators, and we need to be aware, I repeat again, of the influence of teleoperators. I don't mind a telegrapher, though. Teleopers, if he needs help, he needs help. No problem at all. But here, exclusively teleopers do not behave like in their own countries, not by the wrong teleoperator, but by our colleagues here. For letting us do this. We let them behave. I repeat again, we have the worst Internet. The worst. The biggest profit is in the Republic of Croatia, and the worst Internet, and the biggest profit they get, and we're the first to corruption. What's he saying? That there's corruption here, gentlemen. This is quite an example that there is, and the example is obvious. I'm asking a question here to Secretary of State Mihoć who defended this government law in 2018 when me and my colleague Grumoja asked to pay compensation and owners, not only owners, but real estate managers. How can you do that for agricultural land and not for this law? Why double standards, why is it so convenient for teleopers, to harm JLS, to the detriment of legal and physical persons who are owners of real estate and movables and land in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143269	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Ante Plazonic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143270	Your Honor, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. 50 minutes. The story of the slowest Internet, corruption and guessing telecom operators. It's now 50 minutes just as you started, Mr. Bulj, insisting that telecom operators and that's true, make extremely high incomes and get in the area of the Republic of Croatia. However, in those 50 minutes, you have lit only one side of the medal, so you have not touched that 92% coverage of the Republic of Croatia, while respecting the fact that more than 80% is a rural, suburban and rural part, di Telekom operators, due to lack of commercial interest, have no obligation to set up base stations and then of course that gentlemen from local administration and self-government have no one to charge for access and service rights. We take care of that, and you have certainly this information, that telecom operators invested in infrastructure and radio spectrum for 2016, almost 3 billion kuna, as well as 2017. The government of the Republic of Croatia as a responsible government, in order not to bring those 25% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in, more than 80% of the area, in order not to bring them into the area, must enable them or create the same opportunities. They're not second-class citizens. Why does it matter? Here, this rural area, especially this area that you talk about most often, Mr. Bulj, is our Cetina landscape, and I, thank God, know it well, is increasingly being imposed as a very important tourist destination. What's the coverage of the signal in that area? You say slow Internet. What's the interest of a telecom operator to build a base station in Bravc's Dolco, 30 km from something? And how much does that cost? So the base stations didn't fall off the pears, someone created them, someone built towers, set up antennas, a transport system for data transmission that unfortunately in these rural areas is what it is. That's exactly what I'm talking about. The government and for the sake of these people and for the sake of these areas wants to help telecom operators, it wants to consent because it cannot force them to help our citizens living in the area. Imagine the situation that in the elections of Cetina, those two karst pearls, the Japanese, the Koreans, the Americans or whoever wants to send a real-time picture, some kind of comment, maybe there's a journalist among them, might want to promote this country. What can they send? Speech communication is bad, almost no text. Here, that's why the government disowns, I don't know, tens of millions of kunas, but for the benefit of those who aren't focused on the telecom operator. That's why the government, you think, is that Korean journalists are talking about the gastronomic offer, here's our Dalmatian burn, about the synjish, the sassy prosciutto, the cheese from the muscle, so that would be great. But I can't send that picture in real time, they have to wait for them to get to a bigger place in Croatia where they don't have, I don't know, 3 or 4G access. That's why it's very important. It will not help this government, nor the local self-government, because it is not actually the government's income, or budget, but local self-government, and it will not help much in those very difficult problems that we have, and on the other hand, it is more important that we have and agree that operators build there in this area so that those who come have the necessary infrastructure and easier communication with the world. In that sense, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a national broadband plan for the Republic of Croatia, you must have got it. What's in it? From a macroeconomic perspective, the development of the digital economy acts as a driver for economic growth through improved productivity. It can also directly and indirectly affect job creation and investment opportunities. The availability of high-quality and modern infrastructure is one of the basic preconditions of the digital economy. Developed physical and electronic communications infrastructure, availability and use of broadband access and technology, next generation approaches form a backbone for all services of the digital economy, and are essential for the introduction of the fifth generation mobile networks, since these networks require very high transmission speeds and very high transport capacity to each base station in the network. I think we're talking clearly here about some things. So to get into a situation where we can implement 5G, we need to develop what we have unresolved. And again, with the help of the teleoper, to raise the quality and speed of the network to satisfactory. Also, the development of a fast and ultra-fast broadband approach has progressed, but it is still lagging behind for proper coverage in many Member States. The government of the Republic of Croatia recognised this problem and developed a national broadband plan that formally consists of 4 related parts. The strategy for developing a broadband approach to the Republic of Croatia for the period 2016-2020, which the government adopted in July 2016 as a strategic political definition of the development of a broadband approach together with an action plan to achieve, achieve and achieve the objectives of the Digital Agenda for Europe. The main objectives that the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out in its strategy by 2020 are coverage of access networks of a new generation that allow access to the Internet, speeds greater than 30 megabytes per second and also at least 50% of households of the Republic of Croatia are users of Internet access services at 100 megabytes per second. The project of unifying LNG infrastructure in most RS-owned companies launched by the government in January 2013. The main objective of the project is to unite and improve the management of excess LNG infrastructure owned by the Republic of Croatia, which until then managed the LV infrastructure on their own. After agreeing to the business cooperation model of the technical details of the particular light management infrastructure of each commercial company, transmitters and connections, the company in 100% ownership of the Republic of Croatia concluded agreements on mutual cooperation with the companies JANAF, Croatian highways, Croatian roads, highways Rijeka-Zagreb, HZ infrastructures and HEP telecommunications. So here we're talking about companies that have their own lighting infrastructure and have surpluses in the transport system. A significant increase in demand is expected over the people's period, given the development of a broadband approach and in line with this increase in the need for capacity markets, as outlined in the strategy for the development of a broadband approach and the national access network building programme. The United Infrastructure will use a significant part of the benefits of building a aggregate network through a programme that will manage synergy, provide savings in building and creating a more favourable supply of infrastructure, which will have a favourable impact on competition and greater competitiveness of services towards end-users. Here are the details that are very important in the government's intention to create conditions for a more high-quality and faster approach, for faster data transmission and for as much efficiency as possible, and for the faster access to the network. The target areas of building the aggregate infrastructure within the programme mostly include areas where only the aggregate network of the historical operator is currently available. This is where you talked about it, colleague Bulj, so we're talking about that network that PTT once made, or HT. Now, it's not enough, today, that copper network, is not enough today for quality data transmission, and that's why the government is starting this national plan. The programme's intervention is necessary because existing technological characteristics of existing aggregate networks do not allow the development of access networks and the development of competitive services in the suburban and rural areas of Croatia. Such a situation prevents and this is a very important, uniform development of broadband at national level including the implementation of a complementary national framework programme of state support for new generation networks. And in conclusion, what benefits can we have from this kind of government approach? Covering the modern communication infrastructure across the Republic of Croatia as a fundamental backbone for the further development of modern digital services such as E-Government, e-Health, e-schools and a series of other e-services. Increase employment and a positive impact on GDP due to investment in broadband construction and indirect as a result of the use of large-speed broadband in the economy. Depopulation reduction, therefore, of the early Croatian state. Let's imagine Miro again... e.g. Let those who don't know where this is, it's in Podnarje, young people who have a problem with reception I guess and a TV signal let alone what else, how to keep it there, there's no possibility of a fast Internet, there's no access to information, there's nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that we can't order a Telecom operator to build some capacity there so that these people can enable what's been provided for us here, what we can rather than with this kind of call this bargaining or I think it's a gentleman's good thing not to pay the right way but it's arranged by local administration and self-government, but to provide us with the capacity, just happily evenly developing telecommunications infrastructure. And here, thank you very much, that would be it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143271	Thank you. Now we're gonna stop 'cause it's 1 o'clock and we're gonna move on later. We will now return to our point and on behalf of the promoter will speak the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143273	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, fellow MPs, there are not many of you left, although it is a very important topic. I can only end up as a proposer of this law saying that with, there was a pause, that in all, that in all the countries of Europe it is necessary that the behaviour of a teleoper is essentially what I want with this law, to be harmonised as in other EU countries and that is a minimum. Of course I... The units of local self-government, 400 of them who have raised, are looking through a judicial request and having the right of service, that they simply cannot get to that right, and talking about the broadband internet, that 5G, that's a whole other topic than what we're talking about right now, we're talking about being equal in the EU, that a teleoper behaves just like in the Republic, and if it's necessary to talk about undeveloped areas, because a colleague who's been talking about me right now is not there, he's talking about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] speaks of places where he may have been 30 years ago, he also forgot that he had gone, I had never seen him or heard him until he came here to the Parliament when he mentioned neither the Cetina end nor the Dalmatian Zagora. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the state needs to deal with these relationships differently where there can't be a base station because it needs to be covered with the Internet. However, this is minimal transparency that I expect from our government that, from the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian state, teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia behave the same way as in other countries. That's a zero point. And not that the teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia, I repeat, have the highest profit, 42%, the EU average is 22%. They don't need building permits for base stations, this bill makes me a proposal that, I'm making a proposal to solve the problem means antenna pillars, that on one antenna pillar that exists, and the other one goes up to the rule of law that the ministry should do, that on the same antenna pillar, other teleopers, and not that every single block of a number of base stations that do nothing like mushrooms after rain, because only in Croatia does not need a building permit and that unsettled space that has nothing to do with this law, but a building permit, I gave that law a few weeks ago that didn't pass, unfortunately. This means that teleoperators have the same conditions, and in areas where the state needs to jump in, EU funds, funds that should be used and created their infrastructure, whether a mobile or fixed network, this should be done by the Croatian state, and the concession used by teleoperators, in us everything is the other way around. We are our own infrastructure built by the citizens, then, by the way they put it into the hands of others, hitting our political elites, advocacy, Mudrinic is... In fact, HDZ started, and ended the SDP, that privatisation, it's similar to what INA started with SDP, and ended with HDZ, only this is about telecommunications vice versa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have to and we have an obligation to protect it. And this Government what, if it can be charged in Slovenia with the right of service and the exact prescribed 3 euros, and I don't know why my colleague Mihotić does not answer those questions asked by me and my colleague Grmoja. We're only interested in how in one law this government says, which has accepted it, that the owner can be in charge of compensation, in one he says he can't. Is that the same government? That question, here, watch out, all the time, fellow Mihotic, you're in front of the government. So can you answer these questions that me and my colleague Grmoi are asking? How with one law, I think one law can empower the so-called. How can not the owner have, be the beneficiary of the fee and receive that fee and this is in agriculture and in this law where even clearer and more transparent and local roads are, if they are not in the city, it is known that local roads are maintained by local self-government units if they are not unclassified and in no way we get an answer which means exclusively that the colleague here is not the one who explained on behalf of the HDZ club, and I repeat, I am not interested that we do not have the Internet, I am just asking that the teleoperators in Croatia behave as in countries where they come from, that they have the same obligations as in countries where they come and nothing less. And this law allows us to do so, but we can't get an answer as to how one law, not the owner, can't be, to receive compensation, it's in agriculture, and here the owner can't receive compensation. Me and my colleague, Grmoja, I will remind you, in the same law, but he was the pronoun of the Government that gave amendments to the law and you explained then that he could not not be the owner of the law. Governor, don't pay the owner a fee, in this case agriculture can. That's where it's convenient and where the Constitution isn't the same for everyone. So there is no equality here, here are the units of local self-government and so our citizens are damaged because they should be paid for the right of service and what our colleague Plazonic is saying is, as already, absolutely otherwise being solved. If there is a need for mobile infrastructure somewhere, a base station, an antenna column or anything, then the state with a teleoper in the area is talking. And you can't say, he doesn't need to pay anything, he'll still... I mean, what kind of behavior is that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's pure courtship. It states that, where the state needs to jump in and help but this should be regulated as in other countries, there is no EU possibility, no more. This story of transport, transport infrastructure and possibilities, this, what, that sweet, nice writing, with me won't go away, I'm just looking for what the citizens are looking for and you need to know both in the government, both at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and so on the Ministry of Transport that there are over 1,000 hotspots of people who, overnight by the windows, have a base station, here I am if anyone is interested or anyone who's looking at this right now, that at 1,000 hotspots in the Republic of Croatia are set up base stations, without a valid permit. I have a case in Sinj at Radosic's service, such a problem we have now in Sinj on the chimney of the bakery in Sinj, she arrived overnight one on the chimney base station without... and citizens are excited, here is Pujanka Split, Kaštela, Sinj, Sibenik, Zaprešić, Zagreb... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Istra, people are calling because teleoperators don't respect even spatial plans, so I think it's minimal that we, as an orderly state who calls for the West, belong to Western civilizations on European values, we must insist that teleoperators and others in the Republic behave as in other EU countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By not acting as in Serbia-Montenegro as in Serbia-Montenegro, and the key question why is the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia? I don't have a problem with that personally, but if you have the biggest profit, then what's the problem? That you pay the right to serve because again, there will be a margin at least in the EU average. So here you are, I would ask you because I'm going to keep this tree for as long as I'm in the House uninterrupted, I repeat again, and you secretaries come in part from my neighborhoods down, we'll see each other, it's on a human level, but at this level I'm going to wood to the impotence that Croatia can't be underpaid, there can't be another country in the EU, we can't be colonies, and that's the problem. It's no problem if there's gonna be a base station on Dinara and if maybe the state should jump in and help teleopers. I'm in favour of these talks to help the state help the need, but we'll regulate this to pay the right of service how they should pay the right of service and not some HZ have, they have some kind of deal, you know, they've worked it out a little bit for us here, a little bit there and he's the biggest profit in the Republic, no, strictly arranged. If a state needs to build a certain infrastructure and help a teleoperator somewhere, it can, the Athens column on which everyone can get on. Here I would like the antenna pillars of all Croatian states to be in the concession and to charge for hanging whatever was T-com, Tele2, was VIP, it doesn't matter which teleoperator and against any teleoperate I have nothing, however, but we have a problem when they have the biggest profit in RH, when they pay me the right of service, when we have a bad Internet and we're talking about a 5G network, there will be a lot more debate, let... which was in Brussels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will be a lot more debate about 5G network, but I think that the only thing we need to agree on is to be equal and that the teleopers in the Republic of Croatia behave like in their home countries, which is very difficult because obviously our political elites are much more important to them than to be treated by these states, and from you secretaries, once again, if you can not, you have more time if you can do business, you are not registered, here and that the public knows that the government does not want to answer our demand for any agricultural law, no compensation can be paid to the owner, and in the Law on Electronic Communications, the compensation of the right of service cannot be paid to the owner and that is what hell I am able to do, I am sorry that the Government is not responding, and here are the parliamentary representatives who may be looking at the couch of this session, I call for this law to support this law, because this law is very difficult for them to be in Europe, and to be able to make them look at their children and to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143274	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, if you had read Kadgot Rules of Procedure HS, then you would know that a representative of the Government cannot speak after the proposal's final speech, so he cannot answer you. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143275	You have now interpreted, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, and you are interpreting why a representative of the Government cannot speak. A representative of the government could have spoken all the time, but he had no intention of speaking because we were right on this matter to benefit from telephony operators and to the harm of our citizens. So he had a chance to talk, but he wasn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143276	You're talking about, now, to answer you now, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving you a warning. You're not invited to an article or anything, we can't talk like that, no matter what. Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We will vote on this point when the conditions are met, and we will continue to work next Wednesday at 9.30. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 13.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-07-0.u143277	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, first reading, P.Z. No. 400, the applicant is MP Miro Bulj, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft law amending and supplementing the Electronic Communications Act is not adopted, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 14 abstentions and 11 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We've come to an end with a view of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, so we're moving on to the agenda. Based on Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Agriculture Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament that we conduct a joint discussion on the following three points: - the final proposal of the Water Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 606, - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the financing of the water economy, second reading, P.Z. No. 607 and - Final proposal of the Water Services Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 608. Do you agree with this proposal? Any objections? If there are no objections, I would like to conclude that we will conduct a joint debate on these legal proposals. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was also carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. And now I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Tomislav Coric. Here you go, Minister.
