ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u148226	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Snowy Sabolek, who will stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u148227	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The alienation of the child represents psychological and emotional abuse, and the World Health Organization identified it as a form of mental disorder that is necessary to treat. According to official data, there are about 300 children per year in the City of Zagreb alone, showing psychological consequences due to estrangement, indicating that the number of 2 to 3,000 children per year is at the level of Croatia. In Croatia, unfortunately, this problem has not yet been identified. Unfortunately. Experiences so far show that the problem needs to be addressed in the face of appropriate and urgent cooperation between the Centre for Social Care, the judiciary, the judicial experts, the healthcare professionals involved in the process. In order to prevent the estrangement incident, parents in the divorce process should undergo appropriate education. Child alienation should be clearly defined by criminal law and sanctioned in an appropriate manner. So far experience has shown that centres do not understand the issue of alienation, but rather reduce it to the thesis of conflict divorce and both are equally guilty and if the child says I do not want to see that parent, the question is again why he does not want to see that parent. Very often because it's manipulated by another parent. After all, children love their parents. Such distressing situations have been resolved by a court dispute of 2.5 to 5 years and during this period, the parents from whom the child was alienated have virtually never been able to establish any normal relationship with the child. After that, we have a situation that we also need to look back on. Violence in the family. After a year of accommodation in a safe house, the victim of violence was sentenced to the street. Returning to a bully or being followed by frequent thoughts on how to leave this world. Why? I'll try to explain to you and ask you where we've failed as a society again. We are prepared to provide equipped apartments for various arrivals while our mothers and fathers, victims of domestic violence, after a safe house they are entitled to for the most year and very often much less literally, are released on the road without any empathy towards them. We from the Living Wall are dealing with the question of the most endangered, abused and powerless, accomplished, and with the same people I personally communicated and worked in terms of helping institutions and was available for any communication that such people need. I believe that abused persons are underprotected even after being put away in a safe house. Even though they lose contact with violence, injustices occur from underlying laws. It should be borne in mind that abused people cannot mentally recover without talking about losing all rights. The victim and bully are often equated so that there is no fundamental difference that European experts have established when they analyzed the situation in Croatia. 20 women not enough and not in time protected has died in the past two years, of course the consequences of abuse. But the question is, what if a victim of violence has to get out of a safe house, because as we know, it's not permanent accommodation, just a temporary residence until a person gets by. But again, the question is how to cope without the help of the institutions. Such a person has been traumatized, and it's enough to just see a similar situation of trauma coming back again. Such a person still needs to be provided at home by foreign institutions. Help, go back to the labour market and do so under the circumstances that are accepted for the person and children. We keep talking about the victim, the victim of abuse is a victim regardless of gender. Will this government challenge the fact that they do not need accommodation immediately and promptly as soon as they leave the house? Will they challenge the fact that they don't need to be helped out on the labour market that they need them and can do it on their own? No, if we think so, we have failed as a people, a society and all of us sitting here. It's easy to look from afar and look at each other but let's turn around and let's say finally not polythology and let's start thinking about the most endangered. And these are children, old men and victims of any kind of violence. They need us here and now. The victims of violence are persons marked for life but very strong with spirit and thoughts and can live almost as normal if we as a society and institutions make it possible for them We will ask for changes and additions to all the necessary laws in order to adequately protect victims and sanction all perpetrators. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u148228	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sabolek, thank you. Now we move to agenda points, the first point is: - Proposal for the Law and Plant Health, first reading, P.Z.R. Number 759 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 72 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko the Queen is here with us, so he will give an opening explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166622	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies of the Assembly and gentlemen of the Assembly, plant health is of great importance for plant production, forests, nature, the natural ecological system and biodiversity, and the very production of plants is also the basis of a food chain without which there would be no food for humans or animals. The occurrence of harmful organisms of plants as well as plant diseases can have serious consequences for the quality of our life, as well as for our economy. Therefore, the need for a new regulation in the field of plant health has been shown to ensure a better level of phytosanitary protection of the entire EU area. In order to ensure uniform application of the new rules across the Union, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Regulation 2031 of 2016 on the protection of measures against plant harmful organisms with an appropriate amendment to the Regulation and repealing the Council Directive itself. The draft Law on Plant Health provides for the implementation of Regulation 2031 of 2016 and regulates the legal framework of national legislation in a section not prescribed by the provisions of that Regulation. The draft law regulates the area of plant health, prevention, introduction and spread of harmful organisms of plants, plant products and other objects, as well as their prevention by means of phytosanitary measures. The provisions of the law, as well as the provisions of Regulation 2031 of 2016, are particularly focused on effective protection of the Union against harmful organisms of plants that can potentially be introduced into the Union through the globalisation of trade as well as on climate change. This draft bill defines the competent authorities in law enforcement, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Inspectorate, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and the Croatian Forest Institute. In exceptional cases, the supervision of the entry of plants, plant products and other objects in the border area of the Republic of Croatia may also be carried out by authorised border officials of the Republic of Croatia and other tasks in the field of plant health may also be authorised by other legal persons with public authority. New lists of harmful organisms such as quarantine harmful organisms, priority harmful organisms, not quarantine harmful organisms, quarantine harmful organisms from protected areas and unregulated quarantine pests of plants are defined. It shall be possible to prescribe stricter measures than those referred to in the regulation itself, and the Minister responsible for Agriculture may adopt rules with a view to phytosanitary protection in order to ensure that those measures do not result in a prohibition or restriction of plants in the territory of the Union. The minister can also bring orders to take measures to prevent the spread and control harmful organisms. Phytosanitary measures may also apply to those harmful organisms which are considered to be eligible for inclusion in the list of Union quarantine harmful organisms. The obligation to provide information to passengers and postal service users who import herbs, plant products and other objects into the Union area which has not been prescribed under the applicable legislation shall be introduced. Legal grounds shall be established for the upgrade of the register of specialised entities, which shall be specialised entities which shall transfer to the Union or within the Union plant, plant products and other objects authorised to issue plant passports issuing phytosanitary certificates, which shall lay down markings for wood material, packaging and the like. For specialized entities, the owner of the plant is relieved to come in a unique and transparent documentation, a uniform form of plant passport, better protection, as well as the possibility of financial assistance in detecting and eradicating harmful organisms. One of the largest newspapers for a specialised plant-owner, which provides, among other things, the possibility for specialised entities to examine plants, plant products and other objects on their own, and for them to issue plant passports, which so far has not been the case under the applicable Law on Plant Health. It is mandatory to train and educate specialised entities in order to acquire certain skills for issuing plant passports, training of specialised entities will be carried out by the competent authority. Following today's debate, we have a draft proposal for a Law on Plant Health, and I believe that through the application of this law, we will ensure better protection of the territory of the Republic of Croatia from harmful organisms, which will ultimately contribute to safer agricultural production, ensuring better protection of the environment, forests, public and private property, which will result in less use of protective resources. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166623	Thank you too, you have several replicas, replicas, replicas, Mr. Liposchack is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166624	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we are all aware that there is an increasing threat of the spread of quarantine harmful organisms that can have a major impact on our agriculture and our forestry. Unfortunately, we add to this the importance, especially the general public and our media, only when they appear can we say the consequences of such actions, especially when it comes to multi-annual plantations, parks in forestry with an emphasis on urban forestry. That is why early detection of the presence of such organisms is also of paramount importance as well as the monitoring, monitoring and eradication, eradication of these organisms, and therefore results in the importance of this legal solution, as well as the competent authorities, inspections, the Agency for Agriculture and Food and the Forest Institute. What I'm interested in is to what extent is actually a possible control of the postal service provider because they can, without problems in the area not only of the Republic of Croatia, but also of the EU, enter through their activity Such products? [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166625	That's a nice answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166626	The management of this activity, i.e. in respect of the supervision of postal shipments, will be defined when we are now adopting a new Law on Official Controls.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166627	Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166628	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it says in this bill that additional funding from the work of the state inspectorate is necessary to implement the law. I wonder if you have projections of exactly what means it is and exactly how much it would increase, increasing the intensity of the work of the state inspectorate since it is therefore envisaged, as we see from, and for the opening part of the law that much more, much greater involvement of inspectors in taking samples and determining whether there are quarantine or not the quarantine species present in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166629	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166630	... The law was provided for 150,000.00 kn increase, and that was when we passed the law itself to the government and presented it to the Ministry of Finance. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166631	Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Secretary of State, I think that this topic is very important and it is good to take care of, about our green areas and plants and trees, and usually, as my colleague said earlier, we only get more informed about it when some disease or some accident occurs, and then we become more aware of how important it is to take care of these things and these things that are defined by law, but I would take the opportunity here to invite all of our fellow citizens 25, 26 and 27 of this year to the final action "Stab tree don't wake up" where people are involved in planting trees, here in the City of Zagreb in the area of the park Maximir in Medvednica that we all go together to try to bring our lives back to our green surfaces because in this way we protect ourselves and our country and future generations that come behind us. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166633	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166634	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, that through the introduction of this law into our legislative framework, we are creating assumptions that we are protecting domestic production, to protect and control the entry and transport of plant materials into the Republic of Croatia, and that we must be even more stringent, so I am surprised that you have increased the resources to control the state borders so little because we have a series of examples where we have failed to protect our space from entering our own, our agricultural production of new pests such as American cricket and the spread of gold jaundice in vineyards here, the spread of a large pest to the oak nests that has done great damage in our forests this year, so I ask you how much this year the ministry has given funds to the forest college and forest institute for research and prevention of the spread of oak shrubs in a way to protect our production and to the wood industry of raw materials? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166635	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166636	Here, I would like to thank Mr. Vlaovic for asking. In fact, it's not about this law that we're starting from scratch and we haven't done anything before. In Croatia, in the application of the laws governing this activity, funds and resources were provided for the full control of the implementation of this law are on the budget of the State Inspectorate, with the Ministry of Agriculture providing only additional resources for the education and training of our employees or those agencies and bodies established by the Ministry of Agriculture, in order to further upgrade the good, qualified all participants in this law enforcement chain to guarantee that in the field of the Republic of Croatia we preserve our production from harmful organisms. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166637	Thank you, Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166638	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. Here, first of all, I appreciate your concern for this law and plant health. But that's where it goes, I'd say, two basic questions. Whether we will produce enough food for human production and consumption in the future, and we know that we will not have food if we do not have intensive agriculture, and it simply requires the use of chemical resources. And the other thing is, in the future, whether the food we produce will be sufficient health care, correct in view of the use of these chemicals. It seems to me that people on our planets are getting more and more, that food needs more and more, but it's impossible to produce, agricultural production is more and more big enough to meet all human needs, and the chemical products we use to maintain the plant species are increasingly dangerous and dangerous, to protect People, will the inspectorate succeed? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Put all that under control? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166640	Here, thanks for asking. In Croatia, our system means that our citizens are guaranteed a system of safe use of food that is healthy and high-quality in this part of the process, this law is not the only one that regulates this activity but also a number of other laws, namely, we apply those funds that are allowed in the EU area just by making sure that our producers and our food that we produce are conditional on it being able to come on the EU market and on the markets of third countries, which we have simply regulated through a series of laws that regulate this... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166641	Thank you. Mr. Ice cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166642	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I have one question. Is it strictly regulated if a disease attacks a tree or if the terrible storm we had in Zagreb, which with these trees, so where, is it all going for compost or can be used for the heat of our poor citizens because I suggested to Mayor Bandic when those thousands and thousands of trees were cut by storm, that he also consults with experts who said that those trees that were cut, which had to be drunk for the safety of the citizens, that he could go with the heating of our poor citizens. Is it legally strictly regulated where with these trees that attack some disease so it has to be removed or does it all go into compost, is it possible to donate to poor citizens for heating?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166643	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166644	... The law, other laws regulate it, and it is known that such materials are treated harmlessly or in a harmless way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166645	Thank you very much, and finally, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, when we talk about this important topic and plant health, I, too, on the trail of colleagues who spoke before me, want to take advantage of the opportunity and praise one action called Boranka, which is implemented by the Federation of Scouts of Croatia in cooperation with the Croatian Forests and the Croatian Mountain Service of Rescue, but also many others, therefore, are partners with the Ministry of Agriculture and Government and numerous embassies and have already received several awards for successful promotion, and it is certainly one of the actions that should be supported, not only at the time when the fires happen and when great tragedies occur on the threshold of what my colleagues before me have spoken but continuously and I think that this action is going in the right direction and therefore I just want to take advantage of the opportunity to praise them in further work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166647	Thank you. Thank you very much. Do they want to take the words of the committee's rapporteurs? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Josip Križanić, who will give the opinion of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166648	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates, I welcome you. The Law on Plant Health was adopted in June 2005 and entered into force in 1.1.2006. This current draft of the Law on Plant Health is transposed into the national legislation of EU Regulation 2006/2031 on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants and the legal framework of national legislation is regulated in the part not prescribed by the Regulations, the provisions of the EU Regulation. 2016/2031 thus achieving a more effective implementation of plant health in the Republic of Croatia. The draft proposal regulates areas of plant health, measures to prevent, introduce and spread harmful organisms, plants and plant products and other objects, as well as combating them by means of phytosanitary measures. The provisions of the law, as well as the EU provisions 2016/2031, are particularly focused on more effective protection of the Union against harmful organisms of plants that can potentially be introduced into the Union through globalisation, trade, as well as on climate change. What is important to point out is that the application of the Law on the Provision of EU Regulation 2016/2031 will ensure better protection of the environment of forests, public private property, which will result in less use of safeguards. Competent authorities shall be defined in law enforcement, the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Inspectorate through the Fitosanitary Forest Inspectorate, the Croatian Agriculture and Food Agency and the Croatian Forest Institute Plants, Plants and Other Objects in the border area of the Republic of Croatia may, in exceptional cases, be authorised by authorised border officials of the Republic of Croatia, customs officials, border police officers, and other legal persons with public authority to carry out tasks and tasks in the field of plant health may also be authorised. New rules of harmful organisms such as quarantine harmful organisms, priority harmful organisms, not quarantine harmful organisms, quarantine harmful organisms of protected areas, and irregular quarantine pests of plants are defined. The possibility of prescribing post-supervisory measures from those set out in EU Regulation No. 2016/2031, the Minister responsible for Agriculture may adopt rules with a view to phytosanitary protection by ensuring that those measures do not result in a ban and... restrictions on the introduction of plants in the Union. The minister can also take orders to take measures to prevent the spread and control harmful organisms. Phytosanitary measures may apply to those harmful organisms which are considered to be eligible for inclusion in the list of Union quarantine harmful organisms. The obligation to provide information to passengers and postal service users who import plants, plant products and other objects into the Union area which have not been prescribed under the applicable legislation shall be introduced. They create legal bases for the upgrade of the register of specialised entities, which are specialised entities that predominate plants, plant products and other objects in the Union that are authorised to issue plant passports which have phytosanitary certificates which represent the label for the daily packaging material and others. For specialised entities, plant owners are relieved to come in a more unique and transparent documentation of a unified plant passport form, better protection as well as possible financial assistance in the detection and radiation of harmful organisms. One of the largest newspapers for a specialised plant-owner, which provides, among other things, the possibility for specialised entities to examine plants, plant products and other objects on their own, and to issue plant passports for them, and so far in the current Law on Plant Health has not been possible. It is also mandatory to train specialised subjects to acquire certain skills for issuing plant passports, training of specialised entities will be carried out by competent authorities. In order to implement this law, additional resources must be provided in the state budget for the performance of the work of the State Inspectorate. It shall enter into force on 14 December 2019, whichever day ceases to be the applicable Law on Plant Health and accompanying lawyers shall be adopted within 6 months or a year. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166649	Thank you, too. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic will deliver the opinion of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So why are we even discussing this law? In fact, the Council of the EU has detected certain shortcomings in the Directive since 2000, which has so far regulated this issue and has instructed the Commission to make the necessary changes that have occurred due to climate change, due to the globalisation of trade and transport, plant resources and emerging situations when we talk about the globalisation of the market in general. And for this reason, today we have these amendments and additions to the regulation relating to plant products. The aim of plant health is, therefore, to protect plants, plant products and other controlled objects from harmful organisms, to determine the presence of harmful organisms, to create conditions for optimal production and trade in plants, to protect the environment from the effects of harmful organisms, to introduce biological plant protection and to direct the development of plant health, to regulate financial damages and to compensate plant owners as well as to regulate inspection controls. I'd like to underline a few things that we consider important in this law, it's financing damages and damages to plant owners. Since there have been very negative experiences in natural disasters and other damages, above all plant owners, what we would be interested in is how the ministry will further regulate and protect the owners from possible invasive harmful organisms and regulate inspection controls. So we heard from Mr. Secretary of State that for the next budget, an increase in the work of the State Inspectorate is foreseen in terms of increasing the volume of work, so above all because of the early detection of the presence of harmful organisms, which is of paramount importance for timely and effective eradication and prevention of damage. Since the position always that the kuna invested in the prevention is five kunas saved in the recovery this amount seems quite small since the State Inspectorate will have to step up its activities, take samples. And when detecting harmful organisms, create action plans for its eradication and control of damage. Therefore, 150.000 kuna seems to be small if we think about how much of the State Inspectorate's work will increase. It is good that other services will be able to do this surveillance, but the State Inspectorate has people who are trained for this very part of the protection and they are actually carrying out the most effective surveillance especially after the quarantine or not quarantine organism has already been present or brought into the territory of the Union in this case of the Republic of Croatia. It is good that for the first time in one regulation, quarantine and not quarantine harmful organisms will unite, which we think will reduce any confusion, confusion and actually make the regulation more effective. Therefore, in our first reading, we are prepared to support such a law, but when we talk about plant protection, we cannot mention our attitude and belief, which is about marijuana. My colleagues and colleagues Croatia has an excellent climate, a large amount of working surfaces, is in a good geostrategic position and is a member of the EU. In view of the positive experience of other members, in the context of the development of an industrial hemp production economy, it should be put on the agenda and full legalisation of marijuana for recreational purposes. Croatia is in an ideal position to become a European leader, and by legalising and liberalising, we will also achieve additional revenue growth that could focus on job creation. As a result, the development of the tourism sector, agricultural production and GDP growth has been added, as legalisation and liberalisation under the control of the state would result in additional revenue growth that could be directed towards the creation of new jobs as well as for the resolution and financing of other points, sectors and segments of society that need this support. So here we'd like to ask the Ministry to consider this, that special attention to the more industrial hemp is present on ours, in our neighborhoods and traditionally very different, has been used for other purposes, but this is also one answer to a new time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166651	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, Independent Representatives of Mr. Glasovic, Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166652	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about a law that we will probably all welcome, so the Proposal for a Law on Plant Health. However, here something here the secretary of state mentioned something about problems that are currently plagued, tormenting Croatian citizens about this law, but not too much. I'm going to highlight here a problem that is very, very big, and it's being shy or almost unspeakable. So, above all, Dalmatian cities and many Istrian cities have been mutilated, their faces have been changed because of their unhappiness. And that's exactly what this law is about. It's two pests, it's a palm tree tree and a red palm pipe. So it's about tens of thousands of palm trees that have been destroyed since 2011. For those of you who don't know in 2011 first appeared in Sibenik-Knin County just now, there was this pest that attacked palm trees and actually there was no help if the palms were not treated, later spread throughout Dalmatia, and even some Istrian settlements, and where thousands and thousands, I will repeat tens of thousands of palm trees destroyed. We have one irreparable material damage. For those of you who say, if you have a palm tree, one palm tree of 20 years is growing very slowly and very slowly, it costs maybe 100,000 kuna. I'm talking about those big yolks, the big yolks with those canary dates that are also more expensive, even more expensive. Small marbles that also have many, are not so endangered, but these two types of palm trees are not at risk but are decimated, almost gone at all. We have a permanent change in the face of many Dalmatian coastal cities and no one, ever since the Ministry of Agriculture heard a word about this problem. Now whose duty is actually to deal with this, I've been looking at this law a little bit, so it says ok here we have phytosanitary inspectors they'll monitor, so they're doing second plant, plant products, etc., we have forest inspectors who also oversee and monitor, we have an agency, we have an agency. So, the agency what's she doing? The Agency shall, for example, implement it. Action plans, but who, who's going to force, who's going to educate, who's going to protect here I'm going to say horticulture of Dalmatian not only Dalmatian but also Istrian settlements in the coastal belt? No one. You need to know that the small municipalities that have the Commissioner, sometimes just an employee or maybe, and there's another secretary that just doesn't mean they're capacitated, they don't have professional personnel that can deal with this problem, they don't have the means to protect themselves from this problem. And for eight years now, we've been watching as we change the appearance of our coast, as the palm trees that were the decorations of our space disappear and have disappeared, and this law doesn't really talk about it anymore, it doesn't say anything. So, in which way you will first financially help local self-government units to protect themselves from this, as you will educate them, here I will tell you myself many times as a private natural person warned the mayors and various units of local self-government about this problem, no idea, and Zekanovic you're talking about something fictitious, after two years or two months of palms disappearing. Why didn't someone formally warn them? But I am now calling you as a ministry, so then report to the phytosanitary inspector, the forest inspector or that agency to write a letter today to all units of local self-government in the threatened area, a few hundred of them means 100 letters, that's 3 kuna letters, not much, so let people be warned about this problem. Not only that, let them be offered a solution, people don't know, for eight years no one's been doing anything about this, and now we're going to pass the law, will this law solve this problem? Well, of course not. I'll say another problem. We had, here it is, we were all appalled when it's what, and now I'm gonna make a mistake, 40 or 50,000 trees removed from Marjan Park. We've all remained so consterned, now what the hell is going on. Hello, what are your services, what are forest inspectors, what have phytosanitary inspectors been doing for decades? Those trees didn't get killed in 20 minutes. It's years and years of hard work. It's about years and years of hard work. Who's responsible? Is there anyone, is anyone responsible or are these people just paying to stand up? So here I call you first, one question I'm curious about, or the answer is actually, I'm asking a question. Who's responsible for the disaster in the Marjan Forest Park, did some institution fail? Who is responsible for mutilating the faces of our coastal cities? Tens and dozens of cities, settlements, so tourist resorts no longer have palm trees and what do you intend, that's the third question actually, what are you going to do about this? Will at least here today begin writing one letter to all units of local self-government that there is this red palm or red African tap that destroys palm trees because if someone invests 20, 30, 50, 100,000 kuna into one tree, so I would like to know that something is jeopardizing him and the state is the one who should actually inform the public's property. And finally, if after that letter, the local self-government unit doesn't have the means, they don't have a way to deal with this problem, so it has to be done by the state. It's not a problem, I don't know the municipalities of Rogoznica or the municipality of Sumartin in Brac or I don't know, any of the municipalities, this is the problem, we're talking about the municipalities that have suffered completely catastrophicly, this is the problem of the state. It's a state problem because it's a feature, for example. The city of Split is just palm. Split managed to save them for the last hour because there was a great city, there were still 30 palm trees in the port, and one thousand palm trees all over Split were killed, a thousand palm trees were lost and nothing was lost. So, write a letter, send it to local self-government and let someone finally start dealing with this problem because it can't be that "no one is guilty", thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166653	Now it's Mr. Lenart's turn, and then Mr. Vlaovic, both in front of the HNS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. The HSS and the Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166654	Dear Vice President, HSS, we and HNS are light-year spaces so thank you very much for correcting. Here's the esteemed vice president, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state with colleagues. Plant health in Croatia may also be a neglected topic in relation to what should be because unfortunately, despite our laws that are passed on to the surface and then the laws that are massacred by regulations and rules and ultimately none of this is implemented as much as necessary in the plant world and the health of the plant world. One of the biggest problems and the cause to tell him such poor plant health in Croatia are Croatian forests. Croatian forests that abuse the topic of health of plants under the cover of pests or some diseases do not cut but hair of the forest. The forests were devastated under cover that they were ill, so we have destroyed the entire chestnut forests in Banovina, in Sisak-Moslavina County, under the cover of flies cut abnormal oaks, now it has come to order under the cover of drying diseases because in order not to be ruined and to be used, it should be cut down before it drys. This is the attitude of the Croatian forests. It is evidence that Croatia's forests cannot deliver enough mass, which is unfortunately crushed into a cut that is exported from Croatia and therefore our neighbouring countries are building that story about the CO2 quota that everyone refuses with our tree instead of our forests being used for processing in Croatia, for processing into a final product in order to create new jobs here, but also for this country to create a new value from what our forests have given. We know as well as we know how long the forests are growing and this generation is not at all responsible for those forests that we have today. In order for the forests to contract, another law is applicable to which the agricultural land that has “healed, ” pastures, is entered into the forest land. We have a recent example in the town of Popovachi where 400 ha of such land is entered into forest land not because they are in the woods but because it would then be increased and that Croatian forests would have an alibi for cutting down as many trees that go to suspicious places, often and in a suspicious way cut, there are often trucks that are illegally driving that tree but our laws that are hollow as Swiss cheese allow it. Another thing that applies to plant health, and we know that the health of plants, animals, affects human health is GMOs. We have an example that we've had genetically modified corn in place that's been conducted for 12 years by the court and hasn't finished yet. We have examples that it was sold, genetically modified soybean with a declaration that it wasn't and the moment our farmers brought that soybeans and taught in silos, it was found that there were genetically modified soybeans. So again, an example of the abuse of Croatian laws that have been massacred as I said at the beginning with regulations and rules. And unfortunately, no one is responding and the complete state of plant health is getting worse every day. For the purity of water, air, insects that may not be so important to us at first sight but we need to understand that without them, there is no human being being taken care of at all but how much they get away with, more personal than for the budget, and how many people will become rudely rich at what our ancestors have created, what they have planted, what they have grown. That's why I think the laws should be respected as they're written, that there should be as little of these regulations and regulations as possible. And the only maybe positive thing is that our entry into the EU, so we need to implement EU legislation in our legislation, and maybe that's a little holding back these interests of these lobbies and groups that rob this country shamelessly and regardless of which they also have children and that their children should also live here and from those resources that the Republic of Croatia has. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166655	Thank you, too. Let me welcome the students and students of the students' home of Marija Jambrišak from Zagreb before I give you my word. One round of applause for them. Here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166656	Here's a thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, respected students, and I welcome you all together, and I'm glad I can say something about the Law on Plant Health. This law, its application in Croatia, is the implementation of European regulations. Yes, we are a member of the EU, part of the common European market and we need to implement common agricultural policies that should ensure that we also in Croatia are sufficient in food production, sustainability and production and preserve biodiversity but that we certainly guarantee one safety for consumers in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why we welcome the adoption of both this law and the introduction of European legislation into our own but surely that is where we, as the HSS, are looking for stronger controls at the entry into the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I'm in the replica, and now I'm saying that these 150 thousand kuna increases for the State Inspector, for phytosanitary inspections is too little, because it's shown in a number of examples that the first few sanitary inspectors, the phytosanitary inspectors at our borders, that they need to increase the number, that they need to raise their salaries, and that, well, these 6% of them, too, I hope that this applies to them too. And on the other hand, they also have quality equipment, laboratories where we can control that entry and transport of plant material to the Republic of Croatia, so that we don't happen to have a meat problem that has entered the health questionable quality of our market, so the first information was that it's not on our market, even then it turns out to be on our market. Here it is now repeated with meat treated with a winebrand in shopping houses to preserve the color and organoleptic attraction of the buyer. This must not happen, and it must be done by our institutions and by our inspections before they react, and therefore they need more people and more money, which is why I say it. Of course, a colleague has already mentioned the problem of the introduction of GMOs into the Republic of Croatia and the law on the ban on GMOs I said that we cannot allow us to have experimental parcels in the Republic of Croatia, even if this is also the interest of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister, because it is certainly a space for the introduction of foreign materials of GMOs into biodiversity in our plant community, and we certainly cannot allow that because of the generations that listen to us and who come. The example of bad examples that we did not respond in time is the entry I already mentioned the American cricket and the large spread of golden jaundice in the vineyards in the Republic of Croatia. We can see that there's some kind of shift in Istria in terms of the debilitation of old disasters, but it's too little to just get rid of in Istria and only 5 million kuna this year for that measure. What about the other areas where this pest was spotted? And it is certain that we should react to allow our agricultural producers to treat insecticides as an orderly measure, financed by the competent ministry. And the other problem is the deforestation of old pests that are unknown to the owners, where they are owners, must be found a model to protect the production of grapes and wine in the Republic of Croatia, and the problem in forestry was also mentioned, we have an oak network bed with plant material in Croatia, but it has spread real from Spačvanska forest to the western part here. And I'm sure the real damage will only be seen after five or ten years. And here's the case I was at a meeting where the Faculty of Forests and the Institute followed this pest, have a scientific approach that I welcome, but it is certain that more funds need to be allocated from the budget to enable an institute that is one of the public services of stakeholders in this process, the implementation of this law more means to continue these research and to design models to prevent the spread of this pest and the destruction of oak forests in Croatia, I did not get a reply to how much funds the ministry has paid to the Institute for this research and we ask that in the following year, what the Institute and the Faculty of Forestry are looking for is appropriate. Also, I want to highlight the great problem of beekeeping, the production of honey in the Republic of Croatia where there must be a long tradition, where we have one of the better quality honeys in Europe and where I should do so through not only the protection of production but I am saying so in the context of the protection and application of those insecticides that harm bees. Here these days, the European Commission has adopted a regulation, another insecticide is banned in the whole of Europe, so I ask what Croatia is doing on this plan not to enter into our space and not to use those insecticides that destroy bees because we see that because of the lack of bees we have less fertilisation in fruit species because we have a problem with the decline in production with that part of the problem with the market and the imports of products right in the apple harvest, we import apples and bring down the price so that it is not worth it to our producers. And what I would especially like to highlight here is the opportunity to welcome the enthusiasts and volunteers who keep biodiversity in Croatia, especially fruitcakes, and the other day there was an exhibition of products of apples, pears, plums and all that is produced in our Croatia from the old varieties that we have neglected. And listen, we're coming to watch this from the people of Austria, Germany and Slovenia, but we don't seem to appreciate it enough, and I'm asking for it here, too, to be one of the thematic sessions of the Committee on Agriculture, that in the new financial perspective by 2030, this should be included in the rural action programme, rural development, because it's certainly not just the preservation of biodiversity and these genetics, but also the opportunity for our rural areas, for our people who already have the plantings of old fruit species to achieve certain incomes and thus preserve life in these rural areas, and I'm glad to see that they've included both the Faculty of Agriculture and the Faculty of Agriculture and have participated in the former advisory service of the agriculture ministry now, which says that we're on a good track here we need to increase the activities to enable those enthusiasts to be able to keep them from their old economies and to be able to be able to be able to grow from their families, to grow and to grow up to grow and to grow. And of course, the opportunity here is because it's a law from the Ministry of Agriculture, to ask when we're going to apply for a moratorium sale to foreigners for the next 3 years, which allows us to access the contract because we've received information that certain activities have been undertaken and that the materials have been sent and that there are objections to be expected. I ask when it will be in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the agenda is not good, because my and our opinion from the HSS is that the decision of the Croatian Parliament would further strengthen the position of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government in seeking to ban the sale of state agricultural land to foreigners for another 3 years in Croatia and thus allow for the growth of agricultural production through the rounding and changes of the most modern agro-technological measures in production because without the state agricultural land there is no rounding up of ownership, it is impossible to plan production and we will certainly continue to have the strengthening of imports and obviously this import lobby corresponds to, rather than to hear that this corresponds to the government for the sake of filling the budget than the Government should be of interest and through this Law on plant health and through the stimulation of domestic production that we do not need to import and transfer foreign plant materials in Croatia, rather than to protect the government for the sake of the old family, that we have been able to protect this food and therefore to protect ourselves from the local food products, so that we can protect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166657	Thank you, too. We move to an individual debate, Mr. Sasa Djujic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, well, I am glad that today we have this topic and that we have heard before us these amendments to the law this morning that this law has been passed for the first time in 2005 and that these amendments that have been initiated by us and the European Commission which believe that certain measures prescribed by this law have so far become obsolete and what the practice is saying confirms these things, and that is why I am glad that this law today is ahead of us and we have heard a lot of the situations that are regulated by this law, we have heard also here today that, as a rule, we are only discussing some problems when they take on the scale of disasters and as many colleagues before me, I will talk about an example of the end from which I come from. So it's about the underpasser who found the Gorski Kotar forests but attacked a couple of Marjan forests. So, in 2014, after the terrible icy that hit Gorski Kotar, 2 years later, the Gorski Kotar Forests were destroyed by a sub-indicator, not this domestic, but the American cricket, which was again the result of global warming that we heard here this morning, and therefore I welcome the changes that come in this law, since the powers now received by the minister to react in such situations as well as inspection controls, were in the future to prevent such phenomena and I only need to remind myself, therefore, of the sub-indulgence in the rule of attack of weakened trees, trees that are usually hit by either fire or ice-cracking as it happened in the Gorski Kotar but also the trees that fail due to the lack of care and non-preserving of the forest. So when we talk about the Gorski kotar, 27% of the forest in the Gorski kotar area is privately owned and generally this forest is sometimes due to administrative barriers and legal restrictions which therefore unsettled land-based book relations, restrictions that owners have in the use of wood in such areas are often and abandoned. And sometimes it's a source itself, let's say these epidemics that happen, pests, the development of pests in that area. And so far, we've been quite limited to current legislation. This should improve and speed up these processes, although I must say that Croatian forests have done a good job on the mountain cotter, because although it lasted 2 years when we look at it in 2017, some 13,000 cc's of wood were killed in the Gorski Kotar area, while at the end of last year it was reduced to some 13,000 cc's. So it shows that this story in the Gorski kotar is now stopped, but it should be a warning for the future, so let's take care of it. If we look at the situation in Marjan Forest Park, they are not as close as I see from the information that I have to bring it down to some normal exchanges and the Marjan forest is still at risk and we should make additional efforts on this issue. Secondly, what is not regulated by this law is therefore increased some penalties but no compensation for damages is regulated. So we're just talking about penalties and inspection of surveillance which is good, but let's just say the huge damage that has taken place in the area of Gorski Kotar still hangs on who's going to calm it down, or who's going to be responsible for those things that have occurred not only in some breaking or criminal sense if they have it but also in financial terms. So the state has suffered huge damage, but those private forest owners who maintain their forests and master them because of this monster have suffered huge damage that will only be seen who they are and now the question is who will calm it down. So that's what I'd like, maybe we can't regulate this law, but we certainly need to see how it degrades these people. So it's good that these changes happen, it's good that we take care of it, and in fact, a timely action can prevent these scales of disaster. Because let's say the same thing when the icy hit Gorski Kotar in 2014 that it was then predicted that there could be development or let's say the progress of the horseshoes, perhaps some things could have been prevented. But for the first year, people had not responded adequately to what they were supposed to do, so it developed, but fortunately, it was very fast to contain it. But now there's damage behind us, there's a forest that's been fueled, and we know it takes decades to get the forest into some kind of border or some, let's say the volume that it was in before the fire or this kind of disaster, then we know that this damage is even bigger. Here, but in any case, I welcome the proposal of these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166659	Thank you. Mr. Lipsack replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166660	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Djujic, you said yourself that we should prevent it. As you said yourself, the subjugator comes mainly as, not mostly but as a rule as a secondary pest and in this case came after the icy and in which way we could prevent it is very difficult to speak. As for private property, you said that they were very often the source of infection in the Gorski kotar itself, but I would remind you that, just as the ministry had allowed the entry into private properties, when private forest owners, or forest owners, failed to do so within a certain period and precisely by intervening, the operation of the ministry and the intervention of Croatian forests, in this way, prevented further disaster that threatened both after the icy and the appearance of the underpasses and possible further expansion, which would be a terrible scale.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166661	Answer, here you go, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166662	That's what I said very quickly, very quickly it's moving into it, but these legal changes as I at least read them now are still speeding up these processes compared to boredom. So we're under the current law and that's one indicator why this law is good to change, that's what I said in the introduction of my debate. So according to the current legislation, everyone in the Gorski Kotar was aware and saw that the sub-sponsor was there but at first the ministry was also limited in its action. So the minister couldn't go straight to private property, or that took some time. These legal amendments are now significantly accelerated and should, in the future, be further prevented from, say, what happened so that such situations should be minimised by these legal changes. And that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166663	Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And I think you've initiated a good debate first of all about the underpass, the damages that have taken place, and I've been asking the Minister of the time what is planned and how to do. Unfortunately, according to my assessment, the reaction was quite slow, so not as expected if we wanted to minimize the damage. And in the end, we're coming right up with that question that I've been dealing with in the debate on behalf of the club, and that's the damage, what, who and how much. So it hasn't been solved as you said, and that's why I have my suspicion that this will be dealt with in the future and in some similar cases. At the end of the day, this law also provides for education and public awareness of these problems and imports of invasive species. And what's always the fact that the kuna is invested in the prevention of five kunas invested in the recovery. But it has to be done systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166665	Thank you very much. Now he'll talk...... Oh, excuse me, excuse me, Mr. Djujic, the answer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166666	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, that's exactly what the damage is about. So when I say compensation, I don't mean absolutely everyone. So there are differences with private forest owners, there are those who manage the forest responsibly or master it as well as those who have forests and do not even know where it is. But on the other hand, there are also these property legal relations, catastra disorder, legal restrictions, exploitation of private users' forests, so they can't come freely, that people need to know, so there can't be someone who has a free visit and visits there even as much as he wants, so maybe there's a forest where maybe the forest should, or the Croatian forest should be a little relaxing compared to so far, which is pretty rigid because sometimes people just say I don't get to run that forest at all, and as a rule, it's being abandoned and there at the end of the tree is gone and no one benefits from it. So in this direction we should consider how to find common interest and private forest owners, as well as Croatian states Which is essentially the owner of all that good. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166667	Thank you very much. Now really, Mr. Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166668	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State with associates, although this law is called the Law on Plant Health or the Protection of Health, Plants, I would say that this law is also about protecting people. Today is definitely an important topic, today, but also in the future, we are all aware that there are more and more human populations on the globe of the Earth and all of them need to be fed. All of us at home may have little holdings or we have some kind of plant, we know that without adequate protection, without pesticides, we can no longer have non-intense agriculture, but ordinary agriculture, they gave it fruit, salad or anything without talking about farmers who live on it. And I'm the one at the beginning when I replicated to you State Secretary I said that we have a problem in the future, two actually problems I see, are we going to be able to produce enough food for the human population in the future? We won't be able to if it won't be intensive agriculture, if it won't be the maximum use of plant protection or pesticides, that's for sure and I say I'll repeat myself, all those who deal with agriculture and those who may have just a little fruit or any garden, know that without pesticides there is no more agriculture, that's how it used to be different, today it's like that. And the other thing is, using pesticides, how much do we really have healthy and healthy proper food? I buy in the markets and always watch what I buy if it can be this visual at all, and it's very difficult, whether that salad, whether that grapes or apples were treated with pesticides, it's going to be even more important in the future. I know that farmers want to produce more, and whether they want to produce less pesticides, it is questionable, there are honest, those who may and may not care about everything together, but there are those who simply want to produce as soon as possible and as much as possible without the use of pesticides, and that is why I am worried about the future, whether our children and we themselves will eat apples that are treated with pesticides or we know what chemical means, and how much it is really harmful and when I have a 9-year-old son I say you have to eat fruit, honestly more times I think whether I'm driving him to good or bad, it's clear that the fruit is important for the diet, but how much it is treated with pesticides, so that apple, that grape or that peach I bought on the salary, and that's what I asked you asked, and it's important that the inspector to be most careful here, that the most of all those producers in the market, it's very much, and it's important that there's something in the market. In all this together, I would also update the problem, and we can say this by many farmers what may not be directly related to the protection of plants, and it has been over a year and a half since the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act. In fact, here's a lot of them coming to me and there's almost a war in the Republic of Croatia for state land, and in Slavonia it's especially escalating it, and my question is when we're really going to put in order not to really come up with significant problems, conflicts, the country is important and we know how to talk about planting good plants, we need to protect them, and if we're going to start protecting people and farmers, that's important. And there's something else I'd like to mention along with this subject, and here's one acquaintance who I would say is a bright example in the Republic, we have a lot of young people going out to us, and he has a son who's graduated from economic college, he's educated, he's smart, he's eager to work in the profession, he wants to work in agriculture, you probably don't believe in these words, but once again, he's finished economic college, he's an excellent student, he doesn't want to work in Ireland, he wants to do agriculture here. There are clearly problems, first of all they have made one so far, constantly spraying, plant protection, it's failing, and then there's this young boy who wants to deal with agriculture, applied to, measure 411, 2016, and now he's applied in 2018. And let me just tell you how many problems there are in that agriculture and how much we really detimize such young people who deal with agriculture. The application for the tender was closed on 17.10.2018.The ministry's promise was that the results, i.e. the ranking list, would be published within 60 days, the ranking list by today 22.10., was not published today in 23.10., therefore waiting for more than a year. On each asked question about the planned date of publication of the ranking list, we received deadlines that each time exceeded. The Ministry and the Agency have not released any information about the competition within a year or when the results are due, and they answer very much to the questions and to incomplete information. There was no mention of a disputed competition in the media. After a year of waiting for any information, the agency now listen to this, sent a request for a supplement Friday afternoon to our consultant's e-mail address, not our address. The request states that we have a 5-day period, the weekend counts clearly in those 5 days, to provide an explanation that required expertise and a large number of information. The consultant, by chance, noticed the agency's mail at that time of day and forwarded the same to us. So we're talking about being late for over a year and in five days, we're looking for an answer from one farmer that's a professional response by counting the weekend and Friday he got it. How depressing is this for a young farmer who wants to fight in this Croatia and deal with agriculture? It's not all over. The second request was also sent to us Friday afternoon, additionally in the tender is the condition that more than 100,000 euros of support can be withdrawn only in the event of a letter of intent by the bank guaranteeing that the investor has the possibility to finance its share of investment. Here are some problems, and in the end he writes, she's caused me an extra seven thousand kuna expenses. These people really want to deal with agriculture, I'm going to point out it's a young man who doesn't want to go to Ireland, Germany, wants to do agriculture, but just over and over again, this country doesn't help him, gets away. Such examples are a hundred. I sincerely hope that we at the Ministry of Agriculture, we here in the Croatian Parliament, all those who participate in this chain, will be able to help farmers to protect plants but also to protect people and farmers from what they want to deal with, to have no more obstacles than it helps them. And I think that if we take part in all these discussions, we should think about it and let's pass the Law on the Protection of Farmers and not this law that is also needed to protect plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166669	Replica, the first line has Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166670	Thank you very much. Comrade Prelec, you talked about the challenges of the future and about whether Croatia will also have the strength and opportunities to produce enough fruit and vegetables for its needs in the future. I think what's important in this matter is to recognize the problem in time and recognize the challenges. So there are countries in the world that, in much more difficult and climate and other conditions, produce fruits and vegetables. Let's say for example. Israel, if we know that Israel in the desert produces every fruit that exists in the world and every vegetable that exists in the world but with great technology and with great investment, then we know that it is much easier and with much less resources we can, but in a way that we can finally start investing in agriculture where we need to. For us more than 50% of Croatia still has a problem with irrigation and draining, with floods and droughts and where we are technologically from some of these digital sophisticated technologies. So that's where we need to make a turn and start investing in what we need and then we don't have to worry about our future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166671	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166672	Thank you. My colleague Đujic, so here is a clue to the need to invest in agriculture I will now tell you that in Croatia there are 6697 hectares under the nuts of 6697 hectares, there is a clear incentive for these nuts. And do you know how many nuts we have? We don't have nuts, we import nuts from all over the world. So here's what we're saying, incentives are huge in the Croatian state, a lot of investment in agriculture, but where do these incentives end? So 6697 acres. If all those acres of nuts gave that nut to get by the hectare, it says here, here's what I'm reading from newspaper articles, we'd be the biggest nut manufacturer in the world. Are we? We didn't. Where do these incentives end, and who gets the incentives? Here's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166673	Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You've opened up a few topics that you might be able to discuss all day. I would refer to a few of them, you mentioned incentives, that the fact is that they encourage growth and production falls, as it is, and why I discussed it repeatedly in this House. However, the problem of land is a burning problem, a prerequisite for any more serious agricultural production and unfortunately a very, very widespread presence wherever you want in Slavonia. So we have situations where the competitions haven't been resolved for years, where the country is literally benefiting you from the one who does the first one, I can't tell you how much that state is losing financially, how much that country's producers would possibly want to deal with legally, and how much at the end of that conflict, injustice and everything else comes out of this fact. Also, great uncertainty such as the competition for this measure you mentioned also makes it very, very difficult for farmers who would like to work in a fair way, I stress in a fair way because here it is crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166675	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166676	Comrade Hajdukovic, you understood me clearly that a year and a half ago, the Law on Agricultural Land was passed, that the tender was gone, that farmers were afraid, that they were afraid of getting the land, that they would not get, that they were afraid of whether they would be connected or through some party or some other card would get land. I asked one question to the agriculture minister and it was related to land in Kopanica where the local chief clearly shares the country in some kind of party reference. These are the problems of Croatian agriculture and Croatian farmers. Farmers don't get into business because they don't know if tomorrow they'll get land, the ones they already had, whether they'll be assigned to someone else. The war for the Croatian country begins, and I fear that we will benefit even less from agriculture because farmers do not have any security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166677	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166678	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, you asked in your debate one key question, which is whether we have and can we produce enough food for our own purposes? Today, if we close the borders, I guess, given that most of the agricultural products and food we import, we'd be literally hungry in 2-3 months. I therefore believe that this is also a matter of national security and that we should do everything possible to raise agricultural production, to produce anything at home and not depend so much on imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166679	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166680	Well, clearly, I don't doubt that you have the same good intentions, and we want to help Croatian agriculture, but the fact is today, that we of 3 meals, 2 meals have from imports, that's the fact, that in the history of the Croatian state, I've got one piece of information that we've invested in the incentives of 26 billion, 26 billion, and that we have the result, I think even more before we've had domestic productions than today, 3 meals, of 3 meals 2 are from imports, that's the fact, who's guilty, all of us together, and most of all the ministers of agriculture so far. You know who else is to blame? We don't have a strategy. We're talking about, here we're writing a strategy we're writing, we don't have a strategy today, we don't have anything to produce, we don't have, these are key problems and I appreciate this law that's important, but let's finally talk about the right things and the real problems in agriculture. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166681	A representative of Maras, who is not there, reported to participate individually in the debate. This concludes the debate, it will be voted when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166682	We are now going to vote on the debated points. The first item is the Proposal for a Law on Plant Health, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 759. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The Proposal for a Law on Plant Health is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 107 votes for and 4 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166683	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU rules on the transport of wood and wood products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 769. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Zeljko Kraljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors, ma'am. Parliamentarians and Mrs. Parliamentary representatives, Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, which entered into force on 22 March 2018. The implementation of EU regulations governing the transport of wood and wood products is ensured. The proposed law amending and supplementing the applicable law provides for further harmonisation of the legislator with legal property of the EU, i.e. to ensure the implementation of the provisions of Regulation 1010 of 2019, and the harmonisation of reporting obligations in the field of environmental-related legislation, and Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed law provides for a one-year report on imports of wood and wood from third countries into the EU's internal market and on the EU's internal market instead of two-year reporting, and for the European Community Council Regulation. The format and manner of reporting in the import of wood and wood products from the partner countries of Indonesia is amended and will be defined by the Commission itself. The law also implemented compliance with the provisions of the State Administration System Act, NN No. 66 of the 19th year and, instead of the Central Authority of the State Administration, the authorities of the State Administration shall be designated responsible for the implementation of the regulation governing the area of transport of wood and wood products, since the division of state bodies to central first-degree and state-level authorities has been abolished. Following this, we have today in the debate a bill that will fully comply with the EU acquis on the implementation of EU rules on the transport of wood and wood products, as well as with the applicable State Administration System Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166685	Representative Curaj has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166686	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, very briefly, I don't think that the measure of coordination itself is disputed, but what we're saying all the time is the status of our wood industry, primarily the manufacturer and the one already known syntagms to export raw materials, and we're importing finished products from the same raw materials. Here, I'm just curious that a little bit if you have the information to explain how we are standing by importing this particular now is about this country partner Indonesia and third countries on the EU internal market, as we are standing by importing wood construction or with exports, whether or not anything has changed here, is it my opinion that the value added on the finished product, not on the raw material, and that would be if we were to show that some of this and we were to apply to imports of the raw materials themselves would mean that our final product industry went far ahead, and unfortunately I believe that it is not, but here's just one information if you have around imports of the raw materials itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166687	Answer to the replica State Secretary, the Queen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166688	The question of your question means imports from the market of third countries in 2017. The imports were 722 million kuna and 2018. 902 million kuna, 902 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166689	Thank you. The next replica of the representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166690	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, my question is on the trail of what counterpart Curaj said, namely, there are rules, there are tables according to which determines the amount of wood mass a single entrepreneur can get from Croatian forests based on a contract based on whether it is a final product or what level of product, the number of employees and everything. However, I wonder if there's an exit control? Is there a control that would be carried out by the Tax Administration or not by anyone else, how much is it really for which wood mass and obtained by contract from the Croatian Forests or is it simply left to such a case so that in the end, since we have no feedback, that such unused I say for the production of wood mass further reselling, is there such a possibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166691	Replica reply, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166692	Here's the Honorable MP, thank you for asking. It is this part of the problem you were talking about that means the way wood mass is divided from the public forest owner of the Croatian Forests, it is regulated by a letter of understanding between the wood-processing industry association and the Croatian Forests, and it is here that certain arrangements have been raised and reached in order for the eighth grade of wood processing to be supplied by finalists with additional quantities of wood mass to maintain sustainability and to increase added value from production. The Croatian forests at the daily level are subject to the control of the contract and only what is justified on the basis of one year of the quantities withdrawn is the subject of a future contract or a 10-year framework contract. So for monitoring, it is monitored, Croatian forests are obliged to deliver quantities for our wood industry, satisfying actually the necessary raw materials for sustainable jobs that are most often in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166693	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. For discussion on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will be addressed by MP Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166694	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues, one of the key resources is the forest. We need to know by water, agricultural land are forests, 2.5 million ha is under forests in the Republic of Croatia, and that is one huge and economic and national resource that needs to be managed primarily, we are now talking about traffic and traffic law i.e. Harmonisation of Directives i.e. European legislation, but we should discuss this well, about Croatian forests as a national wealth because simply, additional value in areas where it should be created is not created, I always remember here G. Kotar, in G. Kotar where wood is exported to Italy and where long-term examples in Italy, in quotas because domestic wood industry has quotas. You know, if they do palettes, they have certain quotas, so they come into the phase that man, for example. in Dicim at Sinj has a company, she is employed in Sinj or another region of Slavonia or somewhere else, she employs 40 people but she has fulfilled quotas and exports, because of export palettes, euro palettes and says, no, not you have fulfilled the quota, you have to fire 40 people, but if there are any fictitious companies that open up as if they are producers and essentially exporting forests. This is where a number of questions are asked that we need to answer. I know that Croatian farmers who deal with this and most of all here mean extra value in hiring people from wood where we are employed, but what we do, we export the most, someone else creates extra value and the same for us, for example. from Italy here as an additional value, as furniture or something else, essentially sells us and essentially they create additional value in other countries. For example. in G. Kotar, so we had there sawmills and people who were trained, we should maybe improve technology but the fact is that in these areas people went to other countries to do tree work and now they're coming back to them in essence, and we've got sawmills in G. Kotar, and now they're basically the only ones that we've moved out of these parts, these people have gone as people who know how to do their job as a tree and now they're coming back, in fact, they're just going back that product, finished product and extra value. We've evicted places where we have a wealth of forest, which is a typical example of G. Kotar, Lika, these are typical examples. 2.5 million ha is the area under the forests and the team is not well managed, the team here needs to be publicly and by our resources that are significant by the water, along with the agricultural land that is forgotten and not processed, with our Adriatic i.e. Our seas where we do not have the strength to declare the exclusive belt and air that we have clean, we need to protect it and create us additional value, and not from Mr. Kotar to export wood and people to Italy, in Hungary, I don't know where everything and those quotas are essentially our economies that create additional value for them, limit and have to at one stage when they have to fire people, they have to fight to get quotas, to increase their quotas. It's an awkward feeling, but it's true. Here I have an example that happened in the Cetitian province. The man thought to receive people because he had an export product from wood, but he couldn't get quotas. Here you should reconsider and call DORH,... how many fictitious companies are open to produce in the Republic of Croatia, essentially they end up exporting it out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in fact, they're getting at it because they have some kind of advantageous price that's okay for our businessmen to have a preferential price. Forests are a national resource, a resource that needs to be mastered, and I know that we don't like to say in our own language, that I prefer to speak more qualifiedly, but the fact is that forest areas, where there was once an industrial development of these sawmills where he encouraged those ends, mentioned with G. Kotar, are now empty. The only thing further exported are the trunks and these people from the Gorski kotar in Italy are processing that tree and as finished product that product is sold again in the Republic of Croatia and that's it. If that's to solve the demographic problem and even those local self-governments I was holding a press conference once last year behind the snow when all the ministers took pictures of themselves cleaning snow, it stays, you know what's left? Because of the transport of wood to trucks, these are huge burdens, they have only these local self-government huge damages on the infrastructure of traffic, and then they have to milk the ministers here, the moth ministers to give them which swear that they can rebuild and impact holes that satire vehicles, which satire vehicles that chase forests, and the most chase, transport to export again, means by this act we export and our potential, these are people, it's the most painful, the place to invest in technology, and it's like everywhere, we don't protect our interest, in this case forest, and in this case the directive that we've brought into traffic, it's been transporting, but not in the interest of people in the area where it's rich in the forest, where they can develop saw and to the furniture, up to, to the high quality of processing, but we have this resource and potential, now the question is given to us by someone in particular, the people who have gone to the other countries where they're very high in their own way, and to the country. So I think that the ministry would commit itself to protecting these areas, how to return to processing wood in these areas, as one of the key resources, and not to import wood products for heating from outside, to import everything from outside, from Italy, I think it's so funny, we export wood to the balvana, we export to, to Italy, and we return it as a finished product, whether it's for heating, or for furniture, anything we bring back through additional value, and the Italians have a gain, that's the key to the problem, that's what the legislator of the Republic can do if it can, of course, allow us to discuss in this way whether we're not good with it as exclusive, this reminds me of the IGP, what the international right gives us, the right to do, the right, what the European Commission, what we'll have to have to protect our territory, so in this case, we have so much wealth, but we don't have the strength to protect it in accordance with the development and the only of the local people, the only that we have to do with this kind of the construction. Here we can go to Gorski Kotar, so you will see, you see, people who are trying to handle wood production in private, you will see who have people with quota problems, with this, with this, with that, they have no exportation because the export lobby, the pests that have been affecting this import for years, in this case they export the log, and not finished, the finished product, the Otto is the damage, these are the pests, and these regulations harmonize with the directives, how much will this help our domestic processor? What will help the survival of people in the area where we have forests, Slavonic oak, where we have a beech in, in, in, in, in the Gorski kotar and in other areas, Lika, means the question is whether we have mastered this resource properly and what are your solutions that once the richest areas where people have come to work in the wood industry, today and those who are in this tradition, have moved to other countries together with the balvanies that are drifting away and that way things mean additional value. I've asked a few questions, I expect you to answer, I expect the institutions to see how and how our tree is exported, which is why the development of the wood industry is hampered and the entrepreneurial spirit of our people on this rich resource which would be a tribune export branch, but exported in the finished product, at an additional price, rather than being exported to the balvanies quotas, and that our domestic producers determine quotas that are low, and that exports are unlimitedly external to our tree as raw materials, and that's the key to the problem. I call here the DORH institution, UskoK, let it be checked in Croatian forests, let it be checked exactly, let check how much wood is exported and therefore export wood is exported, and the domestic producer is limited, the entrepreneur who creates additional value of employment is forced to adapt to these quotas no matter how much work he has. So you've restricted a domestic entrepreneur, and you're going to be doing a vanca for, look, your code is that for years. We protect our resources of the Croatian forest, we rule with them in the interests of people in these areas and Croatian economies. The same case is true in other important resources of the Republic of Croatia, of water, of drinking waters, of IGP, always in someone's interest, and at least in the interest of people living in that area and that is one of the key reasons why 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is empty, mountainous areas and then as beggars to the laws of people with these local self-government have to pray to the mayors, they have to pray to you by the ministries to get something back, and only they give, are essentially tits that suck, these areas. Let's finally make laws for the man who lives in the area, if it's rich in forest, then the forest is a key development branch, not an export branch, not exporting in terms of raw materials, but additional values, and on quotas someone will raise money, ma see, on the balvanies, and these people from these areas will move out of the country and drink wood and work in Italy. This is what we need to talk about, discuss and stop. Let's stop the eviction, invest in our wood industry, not in the Italian wood industry, so that someone can guess through odds or fictitious companies to export balvanies through these companies. Companies that are, like, working in Croatia. If I have to, I'll look into it. Because a lot of people have called me on this problem, but obviously institutions need to end up in Croatian forests, here I am talking about Croatian forests. We're not ready to protect, here I have now a board that is very important, the Veterans' Committee on War Crimes, so I'm not about plants, plant protection. We are not prepared to prevent a subjugation on Marjana, it is for us a whole philosophy, and where we will make these 2.5 million acres of forest in the Republic of Croatia, and with another 700 thousand hectares means unprocessed land, we have not protected anything, nor water and our neighbors have built neither forests nor agricultural land. So we don't have a irrigation system where fields, drinking rivers, e.g. Here's Cetina from where I come from or in the mountain cotter we didn't protect our forests. We're not protecting, we're protecting someone on national good, for the good of our citizens. And these directives, i.e. Regulations, i.e. Adjustment, i.e. The harmonisation of our legislation can be debated all day. In order for the demographic picture to recover from humans, we must not make local self-government addicts, you have made addicts in the area where the woods are, because they must run to the mayor and your ministers to get some of it back. And people are moving out. That's what you're talking about, bring us these laws, laws in the interest of the survival of people in these areas, and make these resources like the forest be that development moment that will survive people in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166695	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, representative Damir Felak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166696	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and fellow parliamentary representatives. Today we have before us this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the EU Law on Transport of Wood and Wood Products. The law itself was passed on 22.3.2018, and that law means Croatian legislation is in line with EU legislation, the implementation of a whole series of EU regulations is being introduced, the European Council and these amendments and additions to the law are just a continuation of it, so another regulation has been adopted by the EU, one of which is important and is being introduced into Croatian legislation by these amendments. So the transport of wood and wood products is a step further in bringing Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis, thus enabling the implementation of the provisions of Regulation 1010 of 2019 and Articles 8 and 9 applicable from 1 January 2020, which is the main reason for this proposal. In addition, this proposal for a law has implemented compliance with the provisions of the 4 laws in the State Administration system which no longer determines the division of the central and first-degree authorities of the State Administration, but only the authorities of the State Administration are hereby established and it was therefore necessary to delete the word ‘central’ in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the applicable law. Just a few words about certain things that have been said here, this law itself, means that we have had similar laws before, without these EU regulations, the purpose of monitoring the traceability system is, in essence, its objective and the harmonisation clearly with European regulations, the aim of all these regulations of our law, but we must recognise that we have had similar laws before without these EU regulations, the aim of monitoring the traceability system or thus of illegal cutting down to the least possible extent through the surveillance of places is to cut and then follow the products from wood and products from the end-user to the buyer, because this is how someone else does it, i.e. stealing from these forests and the biggest problem of forest theft, is present precisely in those forests which are least preserved and these are the forests of private forest owners, and this law alone can prevent it from doing so in the least. To prevent this from happening with those who work in forestry clearly that one of the essential factors is inspectors and the police themselves. There's a lot of talk here about any possible illegal shops in any of the wood traffic, but we need to know that those who are allowed to control the traffic of wood on the roads, first of all means the saws are forest inspectors and police. And I call on them to do it as much as possible because I think it is in everyone's interest that such events are contained as much as possible and that there is and that there is less because then this is not going to happen that certain wood raw materials are leaving Croatia without being under proper control. I can't agree with much of what's been said about forestry but it would require a much longer discussion of the kind of flat-rate assessments that are given here from individual clubs and in individual discussions both under this point and under the one about plant health, but I'll say only one thing that is basic and that we all have to stick to. Forests are a major resource of the Republic of Croatia, natural wealth of the Republic of Croatia but are limited resources. So the resource that should be used in a certain amount every year, which is strictly prescribed by the forest-economic bases, and this is the state-owned company, which is the Croatian forest, strictly adheres to whatever is said, it can be controlled and that is only true. And here we need to know that this resource is limited and that it can be visited annually as much as is prescribed by the forest-economic base and then so much can be delivered to the economy or the wood-processing industry. The fact that we in Croatia have perhaps at this moment and 10 times more sawdust capacity and the need for wood than that in Croatia, I am not only talking about Croatian forests as a company but forests in Croatia, means private and state property can deliver it 10 times less than what needs and what the wishes of those who process wood and there are problems, the problem that they do not get the quantities of certain ones, in the forestry sector they do not get the quantities they would like and which they could theoretically and process, and simply those quantities are not there because the cutting is controlled and prescribed and does not occur in excessive work, and certainly no one is cutting excessive forests to satisfy the wood industry, but is trying to deliver to everyone who is in that chain as much as possible. As happy as they all are, that's a second question but I'm saying, that's a subject that would be much talkable and much wider than these three articles of this amendment and the addition of the law, so I wouldn't discuss it much under this point, I just want to say that the HDZ Club will support these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166697	Thank you. The SDP advocates' club has also applied for participation in the debate, on their behalf will speak MP Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166698	Thank you, esteemed chairman, dear secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The Croatian forest is rich, with water, with agricultural land, by the sea, it is our greatest wealth and should be preserved. Forests are world wealth but forests can also be a world problem, we know that when we saw this year, when those catastrophic fires were random or intentional in the Amazon and when the whole world's public got on their feet what we were doing. We need to protect all of this and make sure we're not too late. I will do some of these things with respect to the forest to update purely in good interest to see how much together we can make sure that here we can preserve the forest, to be more and more pumas as Mr. Phelak said, the forests are spent but we can plant more forests than we have now, only one responsible behaviour with the cooperation of all institutions, primarily Croatian forests and also by pawning government. One of the problems is here, I'm talking to my colleagues, and we say that two, three, four years ago, the price of cubic wood was 280, 300 kuna. Today the price of wood is nearly 700 kn, somewhere over 700 kuna, 2, 3 years old, why is that? A colleague wonders whether it's literally like that. What are the reasons that so much and drastically collected meters of wood, I don't know, but here, that's one question. Second question, he's stealing the woods. Here I can tell myself that I know about it, my grandfather left me the forest, after a few years I came into the woods, I don't use the woods anymore for heating, I have gas, but after a few years, I didn't know if it was the forest or the laziness anymore. And when I ask the people I care about to complain about stealing the forest, not because here someone was benefiting, and I hope he was benefiting, that he needed it, but how to protect those woods. Not for anyone you'd complain to. Is the police, is the inspector, whether it will come to court or not, whether they will sue it privately or not, whether or not the judge will reject it or not, and this is all what some people who have complained about and who have reported stealing the forest, whether or not the judge will reject it, whether the one who stole the forest is a social case, so it'll all go away in such antiquity and nothing, it's one problem that should be updated and see what they do with those who steal the forest. Of course, it is important in all of this to worry about other things, how the already devastated forest is forested. There were light examples in G. Kotar, all together should have a bright example. I am the head of the unit of local self-government or the community, but I believe that all the leaders here would be respected and those who were not present, with one good law, all of us would agree to go to the hammock, with a lot of obligations that cities and municipalities have, I think that this might be the least difficult thing for us to do if we had an obligation to print. Here is my proposal regarding when we talk about forests, our wealth, a concrete proposal, clearly with the help of the Croatian Forests and all institutions because I can't say that we will make a commitment and we know that we have less and less income every year or at least we are at the same level and more and more commitments. I'd be happy if everyone could help make the forest more and not less. But here's what I said, I'm an opposition representative and it's up to me to point to everything that doesn't work in Croatia. And now I'm going to say a few words about a specific case, again eu contests that here listen and you'll see and evaluate, and it's clearly tied to a tree. On 26 June, an invitation to tender for the award of eu funds under the title ‘Other tender for the implementation of operation type 862, modernisation, machinery technology, tools and equipment in pre-industrial wood processing’ was opened. Acceptable users are crafts, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises registered for wood processing in accordance with national legislation. Some applicants who have submitted projects in July have not yet received a decision, almost 15 months of processing. The competition was extended on two occasions until 14 December 2018, which is strange because if we have had so many applications since 29 June, why have the deadline extended to make more entrepreneurs register and are now awaiting processing for almost a year. In addition to the invitations to tender, the documentation of the obligations for all applicants states: ‘The user established in the year of application for the invitation to tender shall not be obliged to submit that documentation’. I will repeat this "The user who was founded in the year of application for the invitation to tender is not obliged to submit the specified documentation". So whoever is founded in this year can clearly report to the competition, and then not only can they report to the competition, but they don't need documentation. Here's so much about honesty and all that in common who's been doing a law like this, that someone who's registered the firm in that year can already report to the competition and get millions of kunas. I honestly think it's a guess, I doubt it's a guess. How can we even put such a thing in a contest for eu funds? This entrepreneur, who has been reported in May and July, can apply for eu funds. I would like to know how many of the selected projects and entrepreneurs who founded the companies in that year. The amount of public support available in this tender amounted to 100 million kuna, the maximum value of the support is one million euros and 50% intensity. Therefore, newly founded companies could receive 1m euros in grants, without any balance, history, number of employees, a newly created company of one million euros in grants. How is that possible? If we count on an average project of 500,000 euros or 2 million kuna then the conclusion is that there were funds for cca 50 projects, it turns out that the agency has been processing 50 projects for 11 months. I wish I could get answers to these questions. I'm really worried about what's going on with these competitions. And in that debate before I told you another example, those measures 4.1.1, where the same colleague is waiting for 16 months of processing. Are we really going to help farmers, foresters, wood industry or are we going to get rid of them? There's a suspicion that someone actually made a tender to please someone, someone who started the company today, and tomorrow they report to the competition and they get millions of kuna. So explain to me, here's what I really don't get. I'm in that system, we do a lot of competitions, they're transparent, they're public, but this is doubt. In May 2019, the National Competition, the Ministry of Agriculture announced a public tender for the award of small value support for the development of wood processing and the production of furniture for which 40 million kunas of grants were provided. Legal and natural persons, macro, micro, medium and large entrepreneurs can come to the competition. To this day, applicants have not made decisions for their projects, until today. So they haven't made any decisions since May 2019. Will the ministry keep the promises of Minister Tolusic, who is now our fellow representative who has promised to increase the alocation if the interest is great in the contest? I will now quote the minister who said "And this year we have provided grants for entrepreneurs working on wood processing and furniture production. The funds are intended and are used for the purchase of equipment, machinery, construction or restoration of facilities, the purchase of information and communication technology to improve business and production processes, the development of new products and also for participation in fairs." These are the words of former Minister Tolušić "In case the amount of support requested is more than 40 million kuna we will provide additional funds". Are we secure? What do we do with entrepreneurs, what do we do with wood clusters, with all those who deal and live on wood? I would ask the answers to this question. I'll put it back in writing. Please answer this question. Is it a matter of mistake, is it intention, is it a matter of conjecture? I won't sin on my soul and I won't accuse anyone, but I'm looking for answers to this and let's see what we're doing here in Croatia. Are we going to destroy this little thing that we have or are we going to go to it to make us all better for ourselves and our citizens? And that today, when I pass Ilica or the Square, me and all of you here to say citizens, these are MPs who are fighting for the interests of citizens, businessmen, farmers, and not that I am almost ashamed of this circus that was at the beginning of the session, with a circus at the beginning of the session. And I'm going to say something else even though I said it in the previous debate. We're talking about eu competitions. Croatia last year had as much as 6000 697 hectares of nuts under its apples as 5 thousand hectares. We know how many apples we have, we have surpluses, what the price of apples is, but we had far more under the nuts. But it is clear to all of us that most nuts have been raised mainly on organic production since we joined the EU and that more than 8 thousand kunas per hectare per year have been encouraged without professional support and any knowledge to gain support. So we have 6000 697 acres under the nuts. Even 90% of those who didn't, who planted nut plantations, the hunters are on the move. That's my responsibility. Whether it's 90%, someone here was investigating it and writing it, whether it's 90% or 80% I don't know, but most of them are incentive hunters. That each hectare of nuts that we encourage with generous support and on it is about 150 to 160 seedlings and that each one gives 30 to 50kg of fruit nuts Croatia would be the first place in the world to produce nuts, in the first place. No one is opposed to giving incentives, no one is against that in the last 29 years of Croatia, we have given billions of incentives for agriculture, including nuts, but we are importing nuts today, we are importing everything today. All agricultural products, we import everything. And we even import apples to then export, and then import expensive and unquality Hungarian or I don't know whose. I spoke before 3 meals 2 are from imports. And here, I would also like to say, let's go help those who help the system, place certain quantities on the market and pay taxes and contribute to the main criterion when they report to some support tender or state country will be as much as they pay taxes and contributions per hectare currently owned. These are crucial things, these are the problems of Croatian forests, Croatian farmers, every one that deals with anything we've talked about, especially the production of wood. And so please, really here are the Secretary of State who listened to me, to explain to me about this contest that I mentioned in the implementation contest... 862, which is why he's so engaged, which is why we've been waiting so long for an answer, that if we're going to help that wooden cluster, or we're going to get away with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166699	Thank you. HNS representatives' club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166700	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. It's always this way to take advantage of the subject and spread more naturally than what's on the agenda, even though this is quite a technical issue of harmonisation, I don't think there's any controversy here, but I'm going to use it to talk about something that's certainly an important topic. I'm glad to see that we are more or less all in agreement with seeing the general wood industry as potential. What is a problem, and not today, not since yesterday, not since the last 5 years, but practically since we left ourselves, since we've been missing large wood producers of final products, and that's what I said and in the replica that we need more final product in which we charge for design, knowledge, appearance, means finalization and much greater added value. For example, just for comparison, the wood industry participates in exports with more than 10% of total RH exports and let's just say that revenue from furniture production is twice as low as wood processing revenues. So that's the story where today in the sawmill industry and actually the companies that make wood products and wood semi-products we have over 25 thousand employees. So the basis of each production is that you are close to the raw material source so that you can reduce costs, depending costs, transport costs and other fixed costs per product unit and of course you have quality raw materials to go on with. Now, we certainly have quality raw materials, they recognize it not because we say it, but all those we export because we are interesting to them, not only because of the price but also because of the quality and the quality of our forest fund. And then the question is why don't we use it ourselves. It's a question that's been repeated for years and years why someone's been selling us someone else's mind. To come by, we have to go to the core of the problem. So today on the market is missing a worker. It mentioned the price of cubics why it jumped, of course the wood industry is also monitoring the construction industry that is the necessary component, so wood construction in any construction industry. Surely, by increasing the construction industry, the demand for raw materials but above all, it literally means the boards that I have to say so, but also the workforce. Now there's a labour issue where we actually want to charge that added value and we lack quality labour. And we have to right now, this is the most obvious example of the integration of the labour market, the sectoral industry with changes in education. What we have done in the last 2.5 years and what is done in the sector of vocational education where billions are made available just to get an expert worker who, in this sector, will offer that added value, will be used and go towards the finalisation of these products. That's why everything at the end of the problem comes to you in education and that's why it's the one and that's why we think that one of the most important preconditions for any further economic growth in any country is our own. That's where it's all going. Is if you don't have enough craftsmen or enough professional wood-processing workers, if you don't have enough of those educated enough to give added value if we're talking about design, then you won't even have quality, you won't have branding, it'll all happen more accidentally than systematically because you can't encourage something, if there's no one to use it. So the state provides different incentives and less values, etc., but we don't have that kind of stopper because we simply don't have one who makes a quality product based on the quality raw materials we have to export or already use it for the domestic market. Let's say something that, this shows one piece of information that I came across, although it's a little out of date because it's the added value in forestry and the EU-based industries. And then Croatia says that we have 109 gross added values, so EUR 109 per hectare, and when we look at gross added value per employee we are here at EUR 18,000. So 109 to 18, and let's say one Finland has 168 152 almost one practically came to 168 hectares, and 152,000 per employee, so we have a high added value, so we have Austria that has some 369 euro per hectare, and the added value is 130 almost 4,000 EUR per employee. So what? Their employees are much more involved and use the raw materials they are. That's clear, obviously. So we're by the very number of hectares, so we're in some upper home, but surely in this part of the house we don't, we don't take advantage of well, and that's what we all know more than anything else, that's the syntagm we've said many times, we export finished products, not raw materials, and that's the biggest paradox that happens to us when we take out someone's raw material and then we import it as a finished product into our country, which I hope is getting smaller and smaller and smaller and we can do it. So, surely there's just one more thing to say, the share of furniture production in our GDP is less than 1%. So, and annually in Europe, the market totals more than EUR 100 billion. So that's something that we can be part of, obviously we're only involved in our exports that's not small, every 10 kuna is from the wood industry that's being exported, so it's not small, just when we're looking, and we're missing that part of the product finalisation, and then we're wondering why, and actually the goal is to encourage this final.../incomprehensible/... investment and what we're doing in education and we're creating human resources that will be able to make a quality contribution, give extra value and connect finally.../incomprehensible/... labour market system, and we're doing it right now. And so this is an example of why it is so important to us, why they are now investing in the centre of competence over a billion kunas of European funds, to just increase the quality of education and the ability to place ready, quality, educational personnel immediately leaving school, because then we can base the entire industry when you have sound foundations and on which to base it. Because we have great incentives once again, and I will end up with that, if there is no one to use them in the right way, profitable and add that added value and leave our raw materials here to be processed into exactly the final products and added value, and thus I am, to participate more in the GDP itself than it is now. Thank you, of course, the HNS Club will support this proposal. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166701	Representative Miro Bulj reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166702	Thank you very much. Here's the previous debate where we say what we've done in the last two years, so when we talk about wood, wood transport, one piece of information has been given by the finance minister that based on the information from abroad, 10 billion kunas arrive in the Republic of Croatia. 10 billion that is very important for the balance, and there is probably a part of the people who had to deal with wood production, industry and from Gorski Kotar and Like and Slavonia. Imagine the words when this government boasts, Mr. Churi, that 10 billion kunas came to the Republic of Croatia based on foreign leads. You know who used to do that kind of politics? Tito, he even organized trains to go out to work for us to get foreign exchanges in '60. For years and then the foreign exchanges, from my ends, would speak, then that money would most of all come from Germany to families here. The same is true of the transport of wood. Same case. Well we're rich in resources we said, here's all consent, the secretary is in agreement. So we have a tree, we have two and a half million acres under the forest, and that's huge potential and resources. I repeat, these areas that we're in the woods, I'm going to take an example of Gorski Kotar or Slavonia, but the mountain cotter who had people, resources, who had a harmonised education, who had saws, who had the possibility of developing what happened to you, that forest is being exported through certain quotas, someone gets a good profit as a forest, as a log, means not as an additional product. The same moment these people, those people who had the opportunity to survive in this area so it wouldn't belong to the Minister of Finance Marić in the category of those who send the signs, the money that they send here in the foreign exchanges to Italy, I took an example there to spend with a friend of Tajani who usurps those areas, those people who have been tribaling to work in Gorski Kotar, those people who have been tribaling to live there, it's a demographic measure, not exporting trunks and raw materials to Italy, and then boasting through the budget here, we've settled the balance, 10 billion kuna comes to us from our people who moved out. These are people who are being made by the wood industry, they're people from an educator's doctor, all of them, and that's the success of this government. So do you know if I just asked a question, can someone tell me how much companies do in the Republic of Croatia by producing wood to some final product that creates extra value? You know how many applied for it, you know why? There are many more registered, so that the wood quota they say will produce in the Republic of Croatia, so they get that tree, so they get legally, and basically they export it and get it even less priced. Well, the fact that we are rich in forest, and 1% of GDP as you said in the huge EU market. Therefore, this resource that we have of Croatian forests, forests, trees, and these laws that we are now talking about the transport of wood, which we are harmonising with EU directives, is neither in the interest of man, nor in the individual is it protected. How can it happen that in Gorski kotar after snowing that ministers are photographed when the snow is clear, we see the bogs, all the ministers are even in military uniforms are worse, they're so ready that you can't peek, and when the time comes after the snow is gone, only the impact holes are left whichever of the truck's transports. And these people are the mayors, the mayors of the problem, and I've been with these people mayors, the mayors, to triangulate the pressure to get the central state back to them. Therefore, these are rich areas where the forest is both in Slavonia and in Gorski Kotar and in Lica, including in Zagor, but I was most disappointed when I saw that the man who owns the company dealing with the production of pallets, mostly palettes, when he had increased production for Europe, he needed raw wood, he couldn't get. He says you have the quota you got, and these people go to the desk and we export the tree. Why are we exporting and not giving to our entrepreneur? What logic is that? Well, it's not a pussy. Well, that general will hire another 50 people, they'll have salaries, they'll live in Zagora, I don't know in Slavonia in Gorski Kotar. Eee, the import export lobby, this one's the strongest one. What my colleague said before me, how much incentives for the weapons could be planted between BiH and Croatia throughout the Ori. And nowhere to go. Let's import 100% ora. There's no nuts. Apple incentives, incentives to think incentives to people who work, I take off my hat. Unfortunately, they are offended and, of course, most of them do not even deal with it is simply from importing again from the vermin of import lobby ministries they cannot sell their product. I said a moment ago, the biggest problem of our wood, from our raw materials, instead of creating additional value, we export as raw materials, people go to Italy for that raw material, and I don't know everything, there's an extra value, we're left with empty areas, are those people who are quality people and who deal with that wood industry essentially have evicted areas. And what's left? We're just left with the exploitation field of certain lobbies. It's the same case about this 2.5 million acres that's under the woods, and this is what we're going to do with this law, if someone in their forest has drunk a metre of wood and a loon will get caught there by some bitch wearing a hoot down in some neighborhood, so they're going to file a report on what a meter of wood or a half a meter of wood took, if that's your problem. And you have no problem with quotas, export quotas, fixed companies that get balvana i.e. The raw material of our raw materials essentially produces them in the Republic of Croatia essentially get privileged, and it is ok that our companies get privileged and eventually sell them abroad at a more expensive price. That's the problem. And not the grandmother who stands up somewhere on the Svilaja or the Gorski Kotar or the Face unimportant with a little powder and that's waiting for the lugar... is that... we respect the Traffic Act, you don't dare. Or one slice of the one from a meter, the Agria in which a meter of wood can fit. So here is the problem that is not managed by our key resource of 2.5 million hectares of Croatia under the forest. Do we need to rebuild the woods? Yeah. Should we plant? Yeah. I'm sorry I wasn't protecting the plants, I'm sorry I wasn't, it was a war crime or something. The Veterans Committee on State Attorneys has been reporting on work crimes, on the subject that is related to this, too, all of this is linked. We have much more important imports of glyphosate and those harmful things Austria has banned and all imports of this, to throw and not protect our agriculture, and we have 700,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, we have a problem with what we are not instructed not to irrigate in 2019 e.g. The Sinj field in Slavonia we have most of it is not watered, so it is all aimed at emptying the areas and making these areas cheap, and we also have a problem with all these areas being in the eyes. It is our resource, even the forests are being banned from selling forests to foreign natural persons, not only water, not only agricultural land but also forests. We must guard the future generations and forest and deal, rule as we should. It is not enough only when the snowfall comes to the Gorski Kotar in Dalmatinska Zagora with a buffer and the ministers are photographed in uniforms. Well, hats, berets, journalists, a thousand, and what's behind that? ... Good lambicide is a long time ago made colleague Maras very few left. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Or it's a similar comparison to what we in Dalmatian Zagora, Dalmatia are waiting for solutions from the Split government to finally start projects and now we expect projects of course coming Prime Minister, Minister Alka, in the end we get something from the only project is waste. ... 200 km to one side, 200 to the other. The only solution and the only project, that's how it is in this case, is the time to master our resources, our agricultural land, not to sell it from 1.1. 2000 this year, as well as Croatian forests And water. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166703	Representative Martin Baricevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166704	I thank Vice President HS. Dear colleague, dear colleague Bulj, when we talk about the exploitation of the forest and when we look back at the discussions that were held in this parliament, probably before the creation of the Croatian state, the topics would be almost the same and would be equally evident about this exploitation. However, we have identified problems, I ask you, Mr. Bulj, not only are we exporting wood mass, but our wood mass, as far as I know, is the cheapest in Europe, what should we do and do that, given that we are a common market, to even ourselves with that price at European level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166705	The answer to the line Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166706	Of course, you need solutions, but they're not solutions and solutions are offered, but it's not a solution that the finance minister boasts that 10 billion from abroad came from abroad, which means a lot of people and experts went out of the wood industry, went outside with our mass wood and returned to him through 10 billion kuna. You know whose policy it is to compare it to Andrej Plenkovic's government? With Tito's policy, which in the 1960s sent people, sent people to Germany to work and to return money to their families through foreign exchanges, and that's how the budget and the government balance was filled, which is now Andrej Plenkovic's policy, and that's evident in the wood industry, and also in the matter of finance di says the finance minister, he simply says, here we leveled the balance, 10 billion kuna, based on the evidence from abroad, it's doctors, doctors, professors, people who deal with the wood industry, who are the people who are working with the wood industry. send money to their families from outside, and [[Intruder: Thank you]] The mountain cotter is empty. [[Intruder: Thank you]] That's the solution, we're producing in. Our Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166707	Please just stick to the planned time. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166708	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj can see that you are really in this topic maximum and that you care about our wood mass and, and, and the noise of the Republic of Croatia, I invite you to engage Friday, Saturday, Sunday in the action "Strengthen the Tree" means on that side in the Republic of Croatia at several locations, in Zagreb you can go here on Friday to Podbrje or to Maksimir and plant it, and Medvednica to plant a beech on the Medvednica or smek in Maksimir, so I know that, in one situation, the Prime Minister wanted to insult you and call you a pan, but now you can prove that you are not in this way in the story, but that you want to plant and that you care as much as you said in your debate, and that it really feels, I really see that there is a desire to be more forest in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166709	Representative Miro Bulj responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166710	I can't be offended by you or by the Prime Minister, I live in an area where there are lots of trees, this year a few days ago I planted, so mostly I come from the end of the no anemia you know, there's no anaemia, and when you have a panic from it, you know there's no anaemia, so it's no problem, of course I call everyone to action and you and Prime Minister Plenkovic to, to get involved in it, not to be hives, to plant, of course I'll plant trees as always and every year, I don't want to call for action, of course here and it'll be in the area where I come from, but it's good in Zagreb too, and as to worry about my concerns or, of course, if I have an obligation to come, so I know that you're a man of asphalt. It is said in Zagreb, in our asphalt, I am a man of nature and of course it is in my interest to protect nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166711	Representative Stjepan Curaj answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166712	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Bulj, something you have addressed directly to me, I am as glad as what I said in front of the club that more or less everyone wants the same and I would just like to note that here are not the problem exporters, saws and those who are dealing with wood processing, they will sell their product to those who offer more, that is the market, we can't ban them, we what we can encourage our market and I hope you agree with me that one of these ways as I said from the club is just investing in education, especially professional education, especially in what will add added value to that product that we really start producing final products in a way that we have to rely on and I think that all governments have so far had the same desire with the same goal, but we simply didn't get too far from it, the data is exact and I hope that you agree with me that education is the key development and wood industry, among other industries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166713	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166714	He would agree that the key is education, but it is also visible that these educational people are now being sent money in foreign exchanges. in the Republic of Croatia, you can see it from those lines. Of course, the wood industry is very important, sometimes in schools, in high schools and in my field of wood, this possibility to go to these schools, but today we don't even have that, we don't even have a tailored education system, I don't even know what to do about it, but it's sad that these professional and quality people from the area where we have raw materials, where we have a certain infrastructure, from the sawmills and on, that we have infrastructure, that from that part of the export logs, that I said to Italy, and then for that raw material were going to these quality people that we invested in, I don't know what you're going to invest in whether there are any more people in that area, so the policies are wrong. It's not a good policy that says that the biggest income was from the foreign line of our physical i.e. Our citizens, so right now politics is disastrous, so the policy is which calls for you to move out and send us foreign exchanges, EUR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166715	Representative Sasa Djujic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166716	Thank you very much. Col. Bulj, in this high home, we often discuss exactly these areas of Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora, Slavonia, which by standards fall into the more underdeveloped parts of Croatia and discuss the laws on mountainous and mountainous areas, the laws on assisted areas, etc., and generally they are less developed areas, but they are rich in natural resources. They are rich in noise, they are rich in water, I have no problem in exporting logs and logs from the Gorski Kotar, but I have a problem that the money made there does not stay in the Gorski Kotar, that it does not stay in Dalmatia Zagora, that it does not stay in Slavonia, but goes to Zagreb. And that is exactly where legislative regulations need to be changed, and those areas wouldn't need help if they could live off the resources that are in their fields. Therefore, that the forest contribution is not only 7.5% but that more money remains for cities and municipalities in areas covered by forests, then they should not be helped or supported by laws and should work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166717	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166718	Coli Đujic, I would put it at one point if it were essentially an exploitation field, these areas such as Gorski Kotar, Zagora or other areas or Slavonia are fields of exploitation and they are local self-government and these citizens are essentially local self-government that create addicts about the state budget and, of course, expect those leaders, people who lead and local self-government to be those who worship the ruling. I think you've said well that the tribal much, most of the money would stay in those parts, of course you say you have nothing against exports, of course I don't mind if it's regulated properly, although, in a way, it would be much more corier that these people stayed in the Gorski Kotar, that these people produced because they know how to produce has a certain infrastructure in the Gorski Kotar and thus encourage these people to stay in the area and that we have finished products like they used to have. So, tradition exists, people existed, raw materials exist, but it all came down to what more money came here to Zagreb and that the government created addicts from local leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166719	Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166720	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, looking at our tree from Croatia, we are now in the EU and of course we have such an open market and we export wood. Of course I agree with a lot of things that we don't manage wood properly. Let's say the railways take hundreds of thousands of prags imported from France, and even now they're from the Serbian Republic, with a price of 650 kuna while we're producing for 380 kuna. I'm asking myself the question where is this synergy of certain ministries to make some moves in that and that our businessmen are doing it. However, it is economic faults themselves that did not pay and lost those concessions. Another thing all problems are solved by working in the government, not in opposition, we can't solve the problem, the problem can be inside when we're close to the government, when we're making some proposals and solutions. Of course, there's my Slavonia and the oak that's not in Europe. is exported both in logs and in [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Employer: Representative Misic timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166721	Thank you. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166722	I agree with you that the government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament and that the government's tribunal representative would listen to parliamentary representatives, but whether it will do so will not and will draw what is best and see if there is a solution. However, fellow Misic's biggest problem is that there is a lobby within the ministry that is not interested in the survival of certain local self-governments where they are rich in this case by forest, wood, they are not interested in investing in this area because they will not have a pinkie from the export of raw materials or imports of harmful products or worse products in the area of the Republic of Croatia. So even the businessmen themselves, we can't blame only them because they've created a quota framework, and that's what happens, again, as raw materials with exports, exports, not domestic entrepreneurs, not as an additional value of exports, but as balvanies. So they send it to the logs. Here, Plenkovic, he said I'm a log, of course I accept it, and if he doesn't solve this, then he's a log. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166723	Representative Tomislav Liposčak reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166724	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, first of all of the road, we are spinning again, me and you around the roads, I will remind you again, the forest contribution, meaning the amount paid by all legal persons who sell the product from the exploitation of the new Law on Forests is a duplan, i.e. 5 and 10% for the supported mountainous areas are being paid into the accounts of units of local self-government. Before you talk so casually about destroying, investing in the road would be good to check exactly for certain units of local self-government how much of these funds are invested on those roads where it should be intended. I will agree with you that the forests are rich, but because of market trends due to increased demand we cannot cut more than is prescribed. On the one hand, you're saying that we're a base of exploitation, an exploitation field, and on the other hand you want us to increase the odds cut at national level. I repeat, demand is much higher than the opportunities the Croatian market can give. And finally I invite you to come to Ogulin, look at the finalist who manufactures the ultimate final product And think about whether he should take a quota and give it to someone, for example, to produce a palette. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in a much smaller additional value. [[Please, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166725	I'm asking you to stick to your scheduled time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166726	To this entrepreneur in Ogulin here I suggest unlimited if there is a domestic product unlimited without any quota. So right now, here's what I agree to, but you can't say that. Look, you were just talking about the damages and everything that remains of the local self-government, so he called me personally, I was, now that there was a colleague of Sladolev's with me in Vrbovska, was Mayor of Chabra, Fužina, I don't know three mayors, mayor of sorry, because they told me about these problems, I held them a press conference. People don't have enough resources to hit the road infrastructures from being made in winter, mostly trucks from vehicles passing full, how many 40 tons that pass along that road. They don't have the means, they don't, and we haven't solved anything of them except.../incomprehensible/... and those areas we've made with such bad laws and bad governance of ours, our forests, in this case we've made demographic empty areas, and the government has to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166727	Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, MP Tomislav Liposčak reported, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166728	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning, I'll try to be brief because this amendment and supplement doesn't essentially change much in the law itself, but it just actually expands its application in certain paragraphs. However, I would like to point out once again here in this high house a few things, and it is as first that these legal solutions that we are talking about today go hand in hand to those who are dealing with wood and wood products in a legal way and, of course, to all those who are in one way or another part of the process itself. I will again point out that we will continue to be left with the problem of illegal cutting and traffic, of course, of wood that is created as a result of that illegal cutting. A personal emphasis here would put on private forests and especially those located in the less populated areas of our beautiful where therefore control is much more difficult and the very insight itself is much smaller. According to data and some estimates from previous years, up to 800,000 of some m3 are cut into private forests annually, of which it is recorded in accordance with the law of a maximum of 200 000 m3. I will repeat again, I have already said this here today, the forest wealth that we possess is an extremely valuable resource, and that is why our people are particularly proud of it, but therefore sensitive to it and that is why this area of forestry, forest management, wood management is also very often and fertile soil for growing population. What is very important to me is control, and in particular export control, that we are not going to export chairs, furniture or any other final product on paper, and that in nature it is about sawn construction without added value. In this and often we talk in this high home and the problem of illegal cutting especially in the private forests, and exporting the seized buildings, and not the final product, are the beginning of this chain and, in fact, the most of the problems in this sector. And I can't stand it, so finally I mention the same thing about Croatian forests several facts that we heard in this debate, I will repeat, Croatian forests don't export wood to the market outside the Republic of Croatia, meaning all wood, all wood products, the variety ends with domestic producers. Equally available quantities of raw materials are much less than offers and from current trends in the wood industry or market and, of course, at the end of the letter of understanding signed between the Croatian Forests and the Association of the Wood Processing Industry at the HGK are actually defined and the transparent distribution of raw materials to customers is determined, according to agreed pre-determined criteria which, of course, we heard in this debate, primarily favour those where the degree of finalisation is very high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166729	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166730	Thank you very much. Mr Lipovsjak, you're in a forest business, you know that problem well, tell us what you would do in this situation in particular right now when we have a rather unfavourable trade balance and we don't have much added value related to, with our raw materials or more benefits than our wood raw materials have economies like Italian or Austrian, than it does, which is Croatian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166731	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166732	Comrade Maras, I thank you for your question and, in fact, the taste of everything you said yourself is a small added value on our product, and that is why, through this letter of understanding and through the rule through which raw materials are assigned, we see that it favors 8.r. the finalist, to favor those who actually produce the highest additional value and I think that in this direction should be pursued and, and continue and this is the only time that finalists, finalists in the high stage of the finale are favored and allowed to produce.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166733	Representative Damir Felak is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166734	Dear colleague Lipoščak, in your debate, you have well detected the problems in, in forestry and manufacturing in the wood processing industry in the Republic, you have partly responded in this response to fellow Maras, but seeing as to whether you agree with what I said and you have reiterated at one point, that the production capacities of the woodworking industry in the Republic are far greater than what we have in terms of wood mass and how much it is allowed to cut annually, and I am asking you a question that gave you a solution to what Mr. Bulj was up to, and these are some quotas, an increase in quotas, has given a solution in enhanced forest cutting or is a solution to strictly adhere to the current rules, this economic basis and that we direct goods precisely to those who finalise his product and thus fertilise that tree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166735	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166736	My colleague Felak, you have actually confirmed in your presentation, and I can only repeat what you have said, the increase in the cutting is in no way, there are management programs in both private forests and forests that are in state ownership, in which the annual or semi-term, or in a period of 10 years, demand is much higher at present than this market offers, than production opportunities, in no case should we succumb to the needs of the market in any way, in a way that destroys the resources that the Constitution requires us to manage and that it is of exceptional importance to the Republic. As far as the current distribution is concerned, I think it's fair and I think that there will always be those who will be more or less satisfied, but we need to fit in with the annual rules cutting and thus work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166737	Representative Angelko Strick called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166738	Thank you. My colleague, you stated in your debate that Croatian forests do not export logs, i.e. wood rather than all offered to domestic i.e. companies registered in the Republic of Croatia. Since everything is offered literally to the domestic market, do you think that this rule on the assignment of these logs is okay, is it possible to fix a little bit because we have one case in the area of the Varazdin County where one company em has a final product of the employment of 550 workers but there was a fire and there was a time production stopped and, of course, in the previous year could not meet all contractual obligations. So do you think the regulation would require a little insight into such unforeseen circumstances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166739	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166740	A fellow uncle, not a single rulebook nor the one we talk about, cannot tell the Holy Scriptures that it cannot be changed either this rule or this distribution method has changed year after year depending on the situations that have been detected and which have proved to be more or less just. As for this, I believe that as such subject to change, and that changes are always welcome especially if they go in one way and say so, in a right, positive and fair direction, and most of all that is the answer to your question, so there are always those who will be satisfied in this way, there will be those who will be less satisfied or who will be dissatisfied. But we need to do it again, and it's the only way to, to raise added value, to favor those who actually and to enable them to produce more to those who have a high degree of finalization, in this case eighth grade, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166741	Representative Ivan Kirin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166742	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor. Based on your profession, you understand very well the problem of the transport of wood and wood products. Of course, there is a problem somewhere and it is the exploitation of wood mass and the final products of wood is very little. Exports of raw wood mass or semi-product is large and the final product in the form of furniture we import. Is the final product of wood so high technology that we can't produce it, or why do you think there's been a shut-down of a large part of production, final products or products that create a great additional value rather than a balvana? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166743	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166744	I would disagree with you not to produce a top-notch final product, there are very good and very bright examples of our domestic producers involved. Why we left or left for a while, we must return to the circumstances in which we have been in the last 30 years after war events, especially in areas rich in forest, but we must be aware, and we must say to ourselves that much more investment in the production of the final product of the high-grade finale, means in this case furniture, unlike the sawmill itself or the wood cut, so that it would agree with you that our capacities may be too small in terms of what we are offered but in any case, there is now a fair distribution to me because we give the possibility to those who have a high degree of the finale, to get more raw material and, along the way, to encourage those who have lower entry of the finale and to go that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166745	Thank you. A representative of Sasa Djujic also reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So this law itself is as technical as we have heard, it regulates compliance with European directives, regulates the relations of imports and exports, as an EU rule with Indonesia, so that I will not deal too much with this law but I would like to warn myself about the very provisions that are changing in this law but I would like to warn of certain problems concerning this topic, which is at the end of last year, the weekly Globus has appeared to me about the great theft of the Croatian forest that is happening in the area of private forest owners, I do not know whether it is familiar to you in the ministry. So, according to the week's claims by several witnesses, there is a huge cutting of wood mass in private forests, and as a rule, and not only by owners, but by frauds, so people across the cadastres and grantovnica come to the names of forest owners, under cover of the night cutting down that forest and then exporting it to Slovenia as a rule because there is no customs duty between the two of our countries and with counterfeited documents, huge quantities of forest are exported practically to the neighbouring EU country. Some indicators of other countries confirm this, therefore, inconsistency of numbers, if you take data from Slovenia, there is a significantly greater number of imports of wood mass from Croatia than according to Croatian records, which suggests that something is wrong today, and that we are talking about forest management all day, the answers of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Forests are that it is in the jurisdiction of the DORH, the police and some other ministries that I can agree with and that you are essentially hand-bound, however, it is a problem to talk about, to determine whether it is true, whether it is true and how to end because not only to steal a tree from private owners but also to steal huge amounts of VAT and taxes that should be poured into the Croatian state budget. On the other hand, it shows one picture of how we are essentially irresponsiblely lording our natural resources and we need to talk about it, we need to find a way to solve it, or if that is not true, then we need to deny it, to say that it is not true. Unfortunately, through many things, we prove to be irresponsible in the management of our wealth. Here are the stories, there are a lot of stories about imports, about exports, about the final product, it is said that Croatia is essentially exporting logs and boards, and that we work a little on the final product, then that furniture produced from Croatian wood at significantly higher prices we import to Croatia, and we ourselves do not find a way to jump it. But here's one indicator, for example. that the plank produced by the log is not a final product, and on the other hand there were speeches here to import these rails. But we also produce large bases for rails that are essentially slightly smaller boards, but are treated as final products and whoever produces them in Croatia gets an incentive through the lower purchase price of the building for that part, which is to play some system, I would say so. Is it no final product that goes under the rail, but knows what it is, it's the bed, it's the couch, it's the furniture. In most cases, we have an uncontrollable cutting of Croatian forests in private ownership as a rule, we have a lot of theft, we have a lot of lobbying and organised crime in that area, and the fact is that the state does not normally know how to deal with it because of the forest regulations and the forest laws that exclude each other in the fight against that black market, and that is what we all need to work together and where we need to find a way to deal with this. So this is the topic I wanted to open, and I wanted to check these media allegations whether it is true that there is a huge amount of Croatian forest that is owned by private persons in neighbouring EU countries, whether you are familiar with this and whether you are going to offer some solutions to prevent it, but also in general what other than such technical provisions should be done in order to manage and manage Croatian forests more effectively. And I have already mentioned in the replica of my colleague Bulju, so we often talk in this High House about mountainous and mountainous areas, about the areas of Slavonia, which are under more developed areas in Croatia, and they are rich in natural resources, they are rich in forest, they are rich in water, and in fact they need to work in the direction that the money made in the woods from these parts remains in these areas, that it remains in cities and municipalities in these areas, that it remains in the inhabitants, and then they should live better, and then they should have no special laws, no help, no charity as it often turns out. So they need to be able to live on forests that they have lived on for centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166747	The replica was reported by Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166748	Thank you very much. In your discussion you mentioned something quite attractive to say politically, and this government says quite often, we will ban the export of troops and we will give this raw material to the Croatian furniture industry or wood industry, but in practice it is seen exactly the opposite. It means that, since 2015, exports of wood mass from Croatia have been growing exponentially, i.e. not quite the troupes of non-final products, and I wonder if that's why? Minister Tolusic, the former, said very clearly that he would deal with it, did nothing. And the paradox is that in Croatia we have twice the amount and value of the exports of the logs than what we have furniture which in practice means that when we take the woodwork in relation to furniture as much as 10 times the export of the logs is given in the production of furniture in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166749	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166750	We are still not competitive in the price of our wooden construction compared to other EU countries, so let's say the Italians, it's cheaper to come to Croatia and bid a higher price here and offer a higher price for this wood product which our millers cannot bear because they are not even competitive. And Croatian forests are paid for one part and sold on the foreign market, but one part and millers sell themselves as a log because it's cheaper to buy a tree just cutting it off, minimally process it and sell it at a much more expensive price. Therefore, it is necessary to change the price policy of wood construction for production and to increase those quotas so that those who produce the final product can get more wood mass for their products, not that one part gets more favourable, and one part is forced to buy at a more expensive price because they have jobs, and often in their third shift people do not work because they no longer have materials to produce their product.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166751	Thank you. Representative Beljak reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166752	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Djujic. I'm going to have to correct you, some things you've been talking about private forests, but I think what's going on in the woods that are state-owned exceeds everything we've seen so far, so that's not just an ecocid that's one barbarism without an example of a couple of excellence in the last 50, maybe more years. We were taught that the Milky Ways cut down the Croatian forest, but what the Croatian State is doing now, Croatian authorities from Croatian forests, it is truly disastrous. I have opportunities as mayor in the area of Samobor where part of Žumberka belongs, and even worse than all that is the park of nature, to see and what has happened since the once dense forest, once through which you have not seen the light, today are the plains, today no longer exist. What happened in the last three or four years, so before that was not the case, was barbarism, Mr. Giujic, total barbarism.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166753	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166754	I trust you fellow Beljak and these are exactly and at the previous point we talked about, so there are also some legal changes that should now increase control, but I don't know how to find a solution if the state itself is doing it, so how to control that part, here's what you're saying now, so that's shocking. So there are no these state control mechanisms in the area of decommissioning, so there should be a little more effort here, and that's exactly the part where the money for the forest contribution would be much bigger, so if you were left with more money in your town than cutting down the forest, there's nothing left, it stays minimal but if you were left with it then you'd be motivated to control that blade and to have control over how much of it essentially cramps and how much it doesn't. [[Intruder: There's nothing left.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166755	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166756	Mr. Djujic hurt his ankle. 238 Rules of Procedure for not telling the truth. The local administration doesn't have anything left.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166757	Agent Beljak, please. No, there's no need for real, it doesn't stand in the Rules of Procedure, there's no need. ... If there were more serious political situations, you might allow it, but there's really no need. [[Whitefish, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166758	But it's not shooting anything, it's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166759	No, but it doesn't stand in the Rules of Procedure, no injuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166760	But you didn't let me say it all the way, so then you grade it. How do you know? [[Intruder Petrov: So you said.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166761	You said he was standing in the Rules of Procedure that he was false, I'm just passing the grade the way he took over the President of the Parliament, the President of the Parliament said that the untruth here is not punishable, so you have to address the President of the Parliament. Representative Djujic, come in. [[Intruder Whitey: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166762	You're the one who hurt the vice president. 238 not to remain in the air, you have now said that in this House of Commons the falsehood was not punished, you did not say that I was not telling the truth because I was not telling the truth, namely I always tell the truth, but from your explanation to my colleague, Beljak could have stayed in the air that I was lying and that I had the right to do so which is not true. And you demean me by your actions because you should have told your colleagues to Beljak that I was not telling the truth and that you did not give him any harm to the Rules of Procedure, here is why intervention should not remain a visit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166763	I would like your explanation to be a little more complicated, so then here and other MPs to understand that actually, by amending the Rules of Procedure, the President has introduced a newspaper that does not punish untrueness. I have not addressed you at any time or evaluated your speech whether he will be true, false, I think it is quite clear any intention of Mr. Beljak, and when he called on the article, it is my job to determine whether he has the right to the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure or not. He didn't. And whether you're telling the truth or not, it will be estimated by Croatian citizens because it is obviously not a Meritary Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, and that's my personal opinion, unfortunately we can't be responsible for that. Representative Maras has volunteered for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166764	Thank you very much, Mr. Petrov, for giving me your word, but first of all, to encourage you, do not agree to Jandrokovic's way of conducting a session where untruths are allowed and even promote and ask you to calm down a little colleague of Bukarica because he usually subflings to the head of the session of the Croatian Parliament what to do when opposition MPs are concerned and that should not work. So on that side, don't give and give and a warning when false is in the game should be given a warning. [[Intruder Petrov: Please proceed with the debate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166765	At the moment you have free views, you feel free to give that speech, please, you have now reached out to the topic on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166766	It's just an introductory part because it's up to date. Of course, what I'm going to talk about further, but here's your encouragement. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] So when we talk about forests, about wood, about this industry, I'm going to talk about it from two aspects, it's the one that has just touched colleagues and most of them are concerned about how we control our forests, how we master wood construction, how much use Croatia has from the wood industry, and it lies on the treasures of the natural ones that very few countries of the world have. The Chinese furniture industry, or the wood industry or Italian, is more useful than the Croatian forest, but this is what I said on purpose because we see how much paradox here is in play that Croatian logs are exported even to China to import cheap furniture again either to the EU or to some other country but rarely to the Republic of Croatia. What I am particularly concerned about is what a discrepancy exists between the data provided by our analysts and statisticians and Chinese, so in Croatia it is said that a number, a certain number of troops, appears to me to be 5 million m3, if I remember correctly and in China say they are imported from Croatia 5 times more. Now who do you trust? Do you trust those who import and who record it there or those who record it in Croatia to export so much. I think there is a very serious doubt that some goods are exported from Croatia and in some way out of the country without being declared what they are. So on the other hand, I think that Croatian logs are exported more than is recorded in business records, and then the data is even more devastating than what I'm about to tell you. So since 2015, since HDZ took over the management of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Oreshkovic, the export of wood, raw materials, compared to what was before, is unlikely that we get about 500, 600 million euros each year from the export of wood or logs to the Republic of Croatia and 200, 250 maximum from the export of furniture. So three times the amount of money and exports we have from the export of the logs compared to the furniture. When we consider that furniture is a final product and that it has added value to a high that includes not only wood but also work, design, marketing, brand, etc., then we come up with about a figure that in those 250 million euros there is all wood or 1/3 which is about 70, 80 million euros, which ultimately says that 10 times less troops are given in the production of furniture than is exported from the Republic, which if a man said that there is enough raw material that we can manage wood raw materials and wood would say ok but the problem is what 35 000 of our employees in the wood industry who make furniture and products of high added value, there is not often enough raw material, or furniture or parking or some other stuff, there is not enough raw material on the continent of those who export raw materials and ultimately very well with little hard living. Not to say that many foreign companies bought some of our Croatian small companies that had quotas because of the lack of wood in the world market and thus cheaply came to raw materials that would otherwise have no right or could not come. So this shows you a deviation in the Croatian wooden industry, which shows you that the Government of A. Plenkovic and Mr. Oreshkovic failed in 4 years not to solve this problem but that problem is worse than it was 4 years ago. What I wanted to warn you about was the devastation of the forest surfaces, something that my colleague Beljak was just saying earlier. I'll look back at the city of Zagreb. It is enough to look from any part of the city of Zagreb, Medvednica, and you will see what Mr. Beljak says on the example of Žumberka. The Medvednica, a colleague and colleagues, until practically yesterday, until a few years ago was completely covered in forest, from Zagreb you could hardly see the part that was not covered in forest. Now you are looking at huge amounts of empty on Medvednica not only this part that goes along the path of the new most expensive wire in the world built by the mayor Bandic but the devastion is in all areas of Medvednica. The paths of the forest that were built have been devastated for years, the trees have been cut and cut, and that's something we need to talk about here. Someone took it as a right and it is unfortunately the state and city of Zagreb not to take care of by me the most beautiful mountain in the Republic of Croatia which is practically in the center of the city of Zagreb. And how devastated the Bear is is something that hurts anyone who's in love with that mountain and who visits and I visit her almost every week at least two, three times I go and I'm on the mountain. So on that side, that carelessness is something that people are also very upset about in the Republic of Croatia. And what we need to talk about here is absolutely and especially because it's about the park forest, about nature park, so we're talking about nature park, it's another level above, we're talking about that that's where things should be improved and it should be forested, not that it should be exploited in this way and not take care of it. What I also from here from some colleagues received through SMS, that Croatian forests unfortunately don't care enough about woodwork in the Republic of Croatia. So they say that at this point we have a problem with drying the Polish jasen and that the state or Croatian forests continue to cut down oak because, of course, the oak is much better materialized on the market than it would be in the event that it is clear and guided by the interest of interesting lobbys, finances, any murky business, Croatian forests in general or the leadership of Croatian forests does not take into account the quality of management of Croatian forests, and there is also one problem we unfortunately have and which will be increasingly pronounced and more pronounced. All together when resumed, means we are certainly dissatisfied with the state of forests and the way the Croatian economy benefits from the forest and we are particularly dissatisfied with the care and shaming of areas that used to be as a colleague Beljak said, crisscrossing the forest and where you simply couldn't find a plan and now look at only Medvednica and you'll see n half of the devastated mountain and that's what hurts us the most. On the other hand, we have to get it back, and so once again, I'm inviting people to join the "Sunday-to-Sun" sounding action, let them go to Medvednica, plant the beech, go to Maksimir, plant the smurf, so let's try to get back to what was and what was supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166767	Thank you. Representative Kresho Beljak is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166768	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Maras, I listened very carefully and I wonder if you have a solution? Do you think that the solution can only be this commendable action of shaming or should we look long-term at how to prevent all these things that obviously happen in Croatian forests and what is controlled or not wanted or not? Is it possible, in your opinion, that Croatia's forests in this sense, that they practically disappear as a company and that forests are given to local administrations, to establish clear rules, that each area has its own management of forests, that local units of self-government, so cities and municipalities earn considerable income from its forest wealth and now this is not the case and most often Croatia is the richest forest in areas that are underdeveloped and which are tormented and which state should be helped? Do you think that would be a solution and that we will all go together after the next parliamentary elections towards the abolition of Croatian forests as state-owned enterprises and abandoning the management of Croatian forests to local administrations?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166769	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166770	Thank you very much. I am absolutely certain that this system is not adequate and that it does not match what our Croatian forests need. Should this be done at the level of municipalities, cities, units of local self-government, there should be an analysis, it should be regionalised, and then some cities and municipalities be co-owners in common because I find it hard to believe that every municipality should have its own forest management company but that it can be regionally resolved, that a company that would deal with the area, with forest management, can certainly and then participate in the ownership of cities and municipalities that would certainly care about it rather than some HDZs who have been caught there to be the director of the Vinkovci forestry, for example. So on that side, I absolutely support this concept, but I support it to be done at some regional level by rounding up multiple units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166771	Thank you. Representative Miranda Mrsic is reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166772	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, what you just said, I think it is not good because Croatian forests are rich in Croatia and it should remain owned by the state and regional self-government should in some other way participate in the exploitation of forests but what worries me most is that we export logs and buildings from Croatia without exporting final products and some data, 10% more exporting troops from Croatia than we report so our pilicans cluster and obviously there is a problem and one of the problems is private forests, and in private forests is being cut completely uncontrollably, exports via Slovenia because we have no border and that is the problem. In other countries there are state services that control private forests, unfortunately not in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166773	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166774	Thank you very much. The absolutely Croatian forests are rich in Croatia, but Croatian forests d.o.o. are the problem of Croatia and way, excuse me, d.d. It seems to me, the problem of Croatia is the way they are managed. So we are leading the difference between these two things, absolutely that, forests should be kept, forests should be managed, but this concept which we now have is taken care of only to take care of, how will change who will be the director or manager of the forest is absolutely harmful to the Republic of Croatia and its citizens and on this side decentralisation or regional organisation through the units of local self-government at all, those as owners of these regional companies that manage their forests could in some way manage it much more effectively than what the company which has its headquarters in Zagreb is doing now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166775	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166776	Dear colleague Maras, whenever you touch Vinkovci, there must be a reaction. About forestry and wood industry in Croatia was written by an expert in forestry, before 115 years ago smart people concluded that the management of the forest economy needed highly educated personnel, when it began with the work of the Forest Academy and today the Faculty of Forests, today forestry is run by managers of a general profile with the exclusive task of achieving profits. The peak of the bad attitude towards forestry was shown by the past Minister Jakovina whose mandate and the term "foreigning" was deleted from the name of the ministries and by setting up his buddy who has no idea about the forest or about forestry at the head of Croatia's forest company and by signing with him such a shameful bonus contract. Of course, it is about the famous Pavelić, the bonuses, the Jacob, who was the greatest expert after you in forestry and plant the apple.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166777	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166778	I think you've confused a little Mr. Culej, the former Minister of Agriculture was Tolusic, not Jakovina, because you've read the paper now, and you've said "the former Minister of Agriculture", it wasn't Jakovina but Tolusic, otherwise the gentleman who had to resign and has been removed because of the huge affairs that you've been having, so I know, you're disappointed with his affairs, and you're feeling uncomfortable about Tolusic's affairs, so I'm aware that on that side you can even understand in your reaction, so it's embarrassing for all of us to have ministers with such corruption affairs in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and we need to finally get rid of it so that former Minister Tolusic is justified, and it's good that the former minister is, and that we all of that we should be on this side, we all of course, that we have no people who have serious doubts about corruption in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166779	Representative Tomislav Liposčak reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166780	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you were talking about the devastation of the forest, about how someone took it for granted not to take care of the woods. First of all, it is necessary to know the ways of forest management and where and how it can be managed by that resource, whether it is a combative way, whether it is regular or varied. And this is exactly how management reflects care and management, which would underline management as a secret management. The tradition of Croatian forestry is more than 250 years old, and therefore, in this way, it's kind of casually speaking, it's a little unserious. Okay, we can master our forests as forests, turn them into jungles, turn that cycle that now lasts a hundred, in the regulator for up to 150 years, we can freely shut down the wood-processing industry and all the other branches that are tied to it. And as for the action of shaming that will take now, you have the finals for 3 days, I, of course, welcome myself to participate in it, but I would remind you that Croatian forests are particularly Croatian foresters have been doing this every day for centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166781	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166782	You are the one who hid behind the general phrases of the type Croatian forestry has been a tradition for 200 years, what does that mean? And now if he's 200 years old, that's it. So now let's assume that tradition compensates for bad governance in the Croatian forests. Explain to me and the gentlemen sitting here in the assembly, Mr. Klaric, how is it possible that we have 500m euros of raw materials in export and 200m euros of furniture? How is it possible that we have two and a half times the income of exporting raw materials, here. And then explain to me that it is a quality management of Croatian forests. If there was something wrong with the allocation of quotas, didn't you change it? The same allocation of quotas as the last 5 years, the last 2, 3 years since HDZ and 3 years, respectively, since HDZ assumed power. What haven't you changed? So on that side we see [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] That nothing has changed and we have less of a forest than we should have, thank you very much. [[Attack Petrov: Time is up thanks, MP.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166783	Representative Maras, please stick to the time. For the closing statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA, MP Tomislav Žagar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166784	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, for this final word, I was encouraged by the previous debate and would like to highlight two important things. So of 2 million and 600 about thousands of hectares of pumas in the Republic of Croatia owned by the masters of the Croatian forest d.o.o. There are 2 million and about 100,000 hectares and the rest is private property. It's only here now that I feel like I'm having this debate and I want to talk about those forests that are for economic purposes. So, one thing to point out, it's sometimes more, sometimes less, someone says even that it's a little bit dangerous to talk about but in Slavonia and not only in Slavonia but in Slavonia it's been interesting in many recent years to return the forests that have been taken away during the former system, to return to the Count's families and that's one problem, we see it as a problem but of course far from being against it, I personally as a man to return what has been taken away, however we see as a problem precisely from this part of the debate that the predecessors have been talking about and it's just managing the woods. So in my mobile I have pictures of trucks in Vienna, the plates on which Croatian oaks are located, as he came there I don't know but the fact that even today the logs are exported in one way or another from the Republic of Zagreb is mentioned here that Croatian forests d.o.o. They certainly do not take part in it, let us believe, but then it is obvious to be private forests, and it seems to me that those who want their property returned to them as they claim, their goal now is to earn money, and not for some future. But another thing that might be more important, which I would like to point out, the Secretary of State, in part of the reply to the replica, pointed out, I think that in 2017, exactly less than 2 years, the signed contract of wood growers in HGK and Croatian forests in the understanding of actually the quota or conditions of accession of competition for the distribution of troops that Croatian forests make available to entrepreneurs. At that time, good measures were introduced, so that increases by small saws are 20%, price reductions and are said there, I noticed that they are said to be obliged to control invoices, so invoices and what products are being produced, it was also during the competition. Personally, I believe that there is too little of this control but one thing that I would like to warn the Secretary of State about right now is the award of these troops and the entire wood-processing industry, in my opinion, primarily the employment of people, the creation of new jobs, the rise of competitiveness, especially in Slavonia, especially in rural areas, as was stated in that contract. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to find ways to raise labour prices in this sector because at this point it is certainly not satisfactory, something slightly raised the labour price because part of the Croatian citizens left Croatia and the entrepreneurs themselves were forced to raise the labour price but what I want to point out and I have said before, I personally believe that Croatian forests should not be and that they are thinking about profit, about profit, about the Croatian forests should think about employment primarily of people in rural areas, Croatian forests should also assist those entrepreneurs who hire, who are also giving workers greater rights because there are those wood-processors who make workers even sign that they were on vacation and although they were not. To conclude, everyone using public resources, in this case using forests, so the logs from those forests should in the tender one of the conditions for access in general to the tender whether to respect... collective agreements so that if such employers want to compete for the assignment of troops, let them prove they respect... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] collective agreements and the rights of workers in these companies are at a higher level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a good approach to raise the level of salary and the quality of the position of workers in these companies and would certainly contribute to the quality of then the final product and competitiveness on not only the domestic market but the world market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166785	We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166786	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 769. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 105 for and 5 abstentions to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166787	The next item is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 760. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Zrinasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166788	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, respected MPs and MPs, as regards this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act, this is an amendment to the legislative proposal adopted in the middle of last year by this high home, and otherwise as regards the Republic of Croatia and the Capital Market Act, it has been since 2009. has been harmonised in terms of the integration of the financial market into the single market of EU Member States, and in the meantime a number of amendments and a number of regulations have been adopted and the directive was then adopted by HS last year by a brand-new Capital Market Act containing 9 Regulations and 15 Directives, amongst others so-called ‘the EU’. the mifit Directive in terms of completely new and different conditions for entities operating on the capital market. As for the capital market itself, it is clear that the Croatian market is faced with a long-term stagnation is also heavily influenced by the movement on international markets, so in this sense only illustrations work according to the data of the HANFA for 2018. to see where we are now as regards the situation in the capital market. As regards the Zagreb Stock Exchange last year, it amounted to 2.85 billion kuna, representing a decline of 22% and 2017 respectively, which resulted in a decline in shares at an annual level of as much as 39.8%, and a block of turnover that was reduced by 12.2% year-on-year, and bond turnover, above all, was increased by 86.6% compared to 2017, thereby reducing market capitalisation of shares by 4% compared to 2017, and the bond increased by 3% compared to that previous year. What are the reasons for this bill? They're essentially related primarily to so-called. Since 21 July of this year, the prospectus regulation directly applies to all EU Member States and is fully replacing the current legal framework in relation to the prospectus. Namely, the Prospectus Regulation, which is the full name of EU Regulation 2017/1129 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the prospectus to be published in the public supply of securities or when entering for trading on a regulated market, is put outside the scope of the Prospectus Directive 2003/71 E.Z., and therefore the provisions which are to be deleted in the Croatian legal system before... provisions on the aforementioned Directive. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following the above, the basic news adopted by the Prospectus Regulation is: First, the threshold for the publication of the prospectus is raised, the new prospectus rules apply to the issue of paper values whose value is, no, does not apply to issues whose value is less than EUR 1 million, before it was EUR 100,000,00, additional Member States for their domestic markets may exempt small issuers from the obligation to publish a prospectus by setting a higher threshold for the publication of a prospectus from the existing EUR 5 to EUR 8 million in Kunska, of course, against the obligation to make an offer information document for, for all offers of paper values between EUR 4 million and EUR 8 million, which in some ways constitutes an administrative discharge for both issuers and bidders. Furthermore, the obligations or provisions on the language in which the prospectus must be drawn up and in which language translations of the summary must be made available on, in cross-border tenders and... Furthermore, jurisdiction, supervisory powers and infringement provisions relating to infringements of the provision and the prospectus Regulation are prescribed and HANFA is designated as the authority responsible for the implementation of the Regulation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The conditions under which investment firms and credit institutions may carry out services of a service provider relating to securitisation operations have also been amended, and in accordance with the Securitisation Regulation directly applicable from 1 January of this year to all Member States. And last time we had one debate about another regulation, we mentioned that a special law would be needed in relation to the implementation of the Securitisation Regulation in addition to the risks arising from it in the past and may arise in some future. Furthermore, the provisions of the bill apply the national discretion contained in the Financial Instrument Markets Directives mentioned earlier by the Mifid 2 Directive, where crafts operating in the financial services market are allowed, e.g. insurance representatives to carry out market interventions in accordance with the provisions of the Capital Market Act. As regards the Fund for the Protection of Investors, which has been established and established by the Central clearing company due to the new regulatory requirements, and due to the disproportionateity of the costs to the Fund's burden, the obligation to audit the Fund is abolished and a special supervisory measure under which the HANFA may impose a review of the fund's financial reports, with the already existing prescribed measure that the HANFA may reject financial reports. The proposal for a law also improved the provisions in relation to corporate governance regarding a new way of collecting, processing and publishing data. Furthermore, as regards the regulation itself, the regulation amended the definition of small and medium-sized issuers in terms of setting a new threshold for their categorisation in such a way that the threshold for market capitalisation was raised from EUR 100 million to EUR 200 million, thus equating the definition for small and medium-sized issuers with the definition according to the mentioned Mifit 2 Directive. A new, new type of prospectus is being introduced, called the EU Growth Prospect, allowing for a simpler prospectus for small societies and small editions. In addition, issuers who have included securities on a regulated market or a growing retail or medium-sized issuer also have an advantage at their disposal, i.e. the simplified prospectus for secondary issues or offers. The second advantage for listed issuers on a regulated market or a multilateral trading platform is certainly a new regime for the production of so-called so-called ‘. the universal registration document containing the basic information on the issuer, and once the regulator has approved that document in two consecutive years, it is no longer required to be submitted for approval, the issuer shall obtain the status of the so-called State. a common publisher. This is as regards the very news within the meaning of a regulation directly applicable to all Member States, and this law also formally includes this one in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, in the light of the existing provisions of the law, a certain part of these provisions has been developed for their better clarity, legal certainty and enforceability and nomotechnical and linguistic corrections in order to make clearer and more precise statements. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166789	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The SDP representative club reported for participation in the debate on their behalf will be represented by MP Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, means we have before us amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act, which are in front of us due to compliance with the EU acquis. On 21 July 2018, the new Prospectus Regulation, which is now being changed directly, came into force and the existing legal framework, i.e. that prospectus so far, has been withdrawn. Basic news in the regulation, as the State Secretary himself has said, is simplifying the process of taking place on the capital market, while raising the threshold for the publication of the prospectus. The new prospectus rules do not apply to securities issued with a value of less than EUR 1 million, up to EUR 100,000 so far, meaning that this threshold has been significantly raised in that part and additional Member States can now exempt small issuers from the obligation to publish prospectuses by setting a higher threshold of up to EUR 8 million for all domestic markets. Moreover, as pointed out above, the definition of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs was amended by setting this new threshold in a way that was raised from EUR 100 million to EUR 200 million for the market capitalisation threshold. The possibility of creating a new type of prospectus is also introduced, so-called The EU's growth prospectus where there is a simpler prospectus for small societies and small editions. In addition, issuers who have included securities on a regulated market have so-called ‘supervisory’. the simplified prospectus for secondary issues, means offers that are made simpler and cheaper, which can be made for the public supply of securities on a regulated market, provided that securities are placed on the market continuously for at least 18 months, and other benefits for regulated issuers, which they have for the plan and for the implementation of continuous and rapid financing on the capital market at a minimum cost and this is a new way of making so-called. the universal registration document containing the basic information on the issuer, and once that document has been approved by the regulator in two consecutive years, it is no longer necessary to submit it for approval and the issuer shall obtain the status of so on. a common publisher. Therefore, the whole of this Implementing Regulation simplifies the process of issuers, raises that threshold when listed on the capital market, and not only is these definitions changed, and certain discretionary rights are given, even national, regarding the regulation of the national limit, mean a threshold of up to EUR 8 million, and is certainly required through this Law to amend and supplement the Capital Market Act to the jurisdiction or supervisory powers and infringement provisions of importance relating to the HANFU. So when it comes to this document itself, I think there's no more complicated law from the Ministry of Finance that came out of this one document that has about 700, 726 articles. How much? 739, then I might be missing some more of these articles, hiding, yeah. Let's do 740 articles, now take how much to, here's how much we're going to discuss in this tall house today about this kind of complicated law. Now let's take our narrow, shallow capital market, which is what it is. 30 years of capital market functioning as many people who know such a problem in this shallow capital market, one such complicated law that is not easy to produce, regardless of what some EU directives or regulations should and should be translated, which should and should be understood, which should have a pretty good expert team and ministry which together and with the regulator all of this can and must also be processed and presented and then actually apply to our capital market which simply and in the very opening words of the Secretary of State, regardless of any economic growth, economic growth that we have around slightly more than 3%, the capital market has fallen 3%. You see, the economy has grown 3%, the capital market is particularly valuable and shares of those that should actually be primary for the capital market, and the bond market has made it a little bit better, and then even when we have the situation since 2017, 2018 in these last years and the situation with Agrokora and with this some to 10 companies from the Agrokor concert, which took part in that capital market, I don't know how much more active they are now, given the change in ownership structure and some other possibility where it was actually the goal of expanding that capital market, where we are actually on a very complex matter, a very complex law which the Ministry of Finance has prepared very valuablely and some kind of framework of participation in the capital market. Here I am talking about some offers on the financial market mostly, and I am talking about those who should raise money on the capital market because the underlying function of the issue capital market is and through these prospectuses is talking about the issue of shares to raise capital, that is the fundamental function of the capital market. And later, its second function should be a secondary market so that pension funds and investment funds can be found, a total of these and institutional investors so that they can provide liquidity to shares or securities. But actually the primary function is going out on the market, publishing so-called. IPO issuing and collecting capital that part of capital should ultimately be invested in some investment and development projects. When you see that in these 30 years, the most significant capital market has always been a state, whether it was issued through some shares of INA or later of HT or some other companies and the capital market was lively and alive and something was working on it while actually the main actor was a state as one of the models of privatisation or expansion of that portfolio of change or ownership structure. The Commission notes that the Commission did not consider that there is a need for a private investor to be a private investor in the capital market. And such is the capital market unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia has been functioning for 30 years. If there is no state to simply freeze it, even if we have a situation like this where private investors have experienced a certain disturbance when we talk about Agrokor it simply remains what is being traded with bonds. But as far as the stock is concerned, that's a very low volume. I forgot, what we had was significant in that kind of tourist portfolio about it, but that's what we're going to do and how, after the next 10 and 15 years, we're going to develop the capital market, as far as possible. We had that Varazdin OTC market, so now it's only fusiond in Zagreb, they were talking about some kind of regional connection, etc. However, it seems to me that in the region, I think primarily of Slovenia that this is no longer such a volume of trade, regardless of this part of what I say positively and European market where we are now entering a single European market as regards Croatian issuers who want not only to be able to issue these securities in Croatia but I can do so on the single European market because we are now fully integrated. I think that in the future of the next, let's say the time horizon from about five to seven years, certainly there won't be a living capital market, I say unfortunately if in the future a lot will not involve the state again through maybe some kind of privatisation of HEP or some other form of state property. It will also not develop the primary function of the capital market, which is raising money, means raising money for projects. So I say I think that these administrative barriers that the EU is now here through these prospectuses, by changing these prospectuses, by increasing the threshold, by simplifying the administration around these very prospectuses, through perhaps changing that definition of small and medium, means that they are getting closer to that capital market. I'm afraid that in some future period as one of the forms of financing their business, their existence certainly is that, unfortunately, I say, it's dead and I don't see in any near future that this capital market could in any more significant way come to life. And I certainly say there, in addition to helping the state which will certainly be on one side, not only technically in that part will it be, but in the capital market certainly what the state expects not to be the one who is the main and who creates this kind of offer of companies, but to actually be a private sector. And the state has done what it could do, but I say in the future we certainly expect more private sector and these small and medium-sized enterprises because as one source of funding today we also find eu funds, capital collection and through eu funds. In the financial market currently there are 30 to 40 billion kunas in the banking sector which has not been used, it is also one of the competitors in this capital market to finance certain projects. There are pension funds that also own certain capital that they must invest and this is just one of the frameworks that I welcome and we from the SDP Club will support this bill proposal where it makes it easier for these small and medium-sized enterprises to get out on the market, their functioning. I think that's where they're going to have to be, they've been developing all kinds of... funds, so-called. FGS, etc. There were several attempts on how to live this dead capital market and there were initiations, etc. and support for various and investment houses, investment banks, however simply still perhaps because we do not have some history of capital market development. It's still on very low branches. We remember until 2008 the capital markets really showed some trend that encouraged and then there were a number of construction companies there and the activities of Croatian citizens in the capital market seemed to me to have shown some kind of encouragement by 2008, and then this crisis happened as it happened and we simply say that people lost a lot of money in those Swiss, some kind of RBA cooperatives, etc. A lot of money was lost in 2008-2009 when the capital market and the people who invested on the stock market and that's where the citizens lost one piece safely lost one part of their savings and therefore are more cautious than they should possibly be. But it is still a capital market and it gives some greater contribution than just the deposit market that we know is now in negative yields and that it remains if we want to develop an economy that cannot have strong long-term economic growth without the capital market. And this is the link that will make it easier for these small and medium-sized enterprises to exit these administrations, remove them from these barriers, come to the capital market, but primarily I think it is in a function in the private sector to try to see and take advantage of all these opportunities and regulations provided to them by the single European market. And in this context, we will support it if we believe that this certainly facilitates the access of small and medium-sized enterprises in the capital market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166791	The HDZ representative's club also reported for participation in the debate on their behalf will be represented by representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. As my predecessors have said, a very large, complicated, high-level law and law that may be interested in a very small number of people who are closely involved in this. And I am not going to talk much about this law in principle because I would practically have to repeat what my colleague Lalovac and his colleague Zrinasic said if there is nothing else. However, some parallel needs to be drawn between these provisions offered by this directive and what is in Croatia. So when you look at the provisions of this directive to rise to eight million commitments to issue a prospectus at this time, very few of those in Croatia who would go to the stock exchange, which would be offered on the capital market that would be bonds to submit a prospectus. And the prospectus is practically the identity card of whoever wants to raise funds, is there all the basic data about him, his future, his potentials, etc. So I even think that this provision regarding Croatia is not welcome, but we must apply it. So, the Croatian capital market, I was there long ago in 2001, 2002 in this assembly said it was a watermelon without grain, unfortunately it was again today, but in the meantime there was a lot of grain that had been grinding in that waterway since then. Today there is a lot of water if there are a lot of potential people who would invest, who would participate in that capital market, but very few of them that would be offered on the capital market because after the disappearance from the stock market or the sale of Pliva, Zagreb Bank, INA and HT are practically talking about the capital market in Croatia we can only talk about something that is in the tracks. However, the provisions of this law also point us to something that happened because there were several listings on the trail of great interest of Croatian citizens after the IPO and the IPO of HT, some private companies went to the stock market, had successful editions, but several months after that the value of these shares fell very low and some companies disappeared, and some managed to go back several months practically to that nominal value that was in 2007 and 2008. And what needs to be asked in front of everything today as a basic question, how successful they are at this moment, I am talking about successful Croatian entrepreneurs because only they can go fast... the data that they are ready to go to the stock market, come to fresh capital and thus experience a small ownership restructuring because when you issue a single part of the company is listed on the stock market and when someone buys those shares you are no longer 100% owner. The question now is how ready it is for those who have companies, who do well, on the other hand they are possessed by business banks and even by funds and others because in Croatia at this point there is as much capital as you want and at relatively low prices. Now the question is, how much is someone willing to go to the stock market, the question of what they're going to get, and eventually their ownership structure will change after that issue. And on the third hand, we in Croatia have one fear that our citizens have experienced two, three banking crises, it happened that after certain interests with the INA and HT values of INA and HT are far below that nominal part and when it happened with some companies that have failed, it is a normal thing for Croatian citizens to have one particular fear of that capital market, which is normal. Although honest speaking should say that one who participates in the capital market is involved in making more money and making more money on his own money, but he must also be aware if it is more significant, if it's bigger than what he gets, what I know about saving or something like that, that then the risk is greater. So, we in Croatia today have a series of options to decide on some things, starting with mandatory pension funds that unfortunately many Croatian citizens do not know what their function is, which is actually right, so many Croatian citizens also have very little information about what is the stock market, which can be achieved on the stock market etc. and without any approach to tell these financial industries to Croatian citizens, we will find it very difficult to encourage those who would like to go out on the market, as well as those who would like to invest in this. There was an idea about it also said by counterpart Lalovac, in order to create a regional stock exchange, to bring the Zagreb Stock Exchange together with Vienna or Istanbul, because these are the two nearest markets that have the most significant traffic, however unfortunately, it remained. And as Mr Zrinasic said, I think he said that 2 billion and 850 million was traffic across the Zagreb Stock Exchange. When you take just what our GDP is, it's not even 1% of GDP, it's some 0.7-0.8% of GDP, and then when we compare what's going on in the world's capital markets, then we see that unfortunately that capital market has no practical impact on the Croatian economy, but nothing at all. And if it wasn't for the government bonds, it would be a matter of what would happen. So, one thing is we will legislate, legislate to comply with EU directives. However, the question arises whether we will have an effect on the capital market, will we awaken that market capital? Does anyone with a good idea run something can run a process of going out into the capital market and thus collecting and funding? It is something in Croatia at the moment unfortunately one practically great unknown. And to get to that, we have to go through these first steps. And it's not a matter of the Ministry of Finance, it's not a matter of government, it's simply a matter of one way of understanding, the way of life, the way of communication and the way it works. And as far as that capital market is concerned, we're practically in turns, but that's practically the most qualitative source of income if you accept today, tomorrow with you someone to participate in company management, that's for sure. Because you're practically issuing securities for what you've created right now, and you're getting fresh money and you're investing it to expand the company. This is the simplest way to say it, but I say we have a situation like we have, we had once and two markets in Croatia it's probably when someone deals with some kind of historical development of the capital market probably to be something special pointed out because in a country that was at war, which had a broken economy, the displaced population having two markets is something special, but that rarity has taught us some things that we don't repeat in the future. And that's why the HDZ Club will support this bill because it's done well in quality and technical terms, but what I've been saying is the iber of this law is something that all of us would have to do, which are in this, to say so, the pot of the capital market, to educate it, to show it differently, etc., because look. Let's just go back only a year and when the Zagreb Stock Exchange was in red and when it was in green it was indicative that it was happening, that some good or bad things would happen. So now we can talk as much as we want, right or wrong, but when the stock market is in the plus, it shows that in the country there are some positive developments in the economy, that trends are good and the capital market reacts. Likewise, when something bad happens, and given how little the capital market is, therefore one slightly more significant participant in the capital market, if a little slips, automatically that day is a stock market in a minus, but it sends a certain message to all investors. Therefore, those who follow and deal with this by following what is happening today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow on the Zagreb Stock Exchange and how they know how and in which direction they should operate. Therefore, the law is good, perhaps these provisions are too high for Croatia, I repeat the prospectus is still something that offers investors the kind of picture they are investing, but we must stick to the directive and so it is, because I say these provisions of the directive will practically apply to maybe one or two participants in the capital market. I am not sorry that some companies a la Croatia insurance or some other commercial companies, in fact, the catering companies of this tourist company have not tried more significantly on the capital market, and the one most attacks the company and is very difficult to trip is the only one listed on the Zagreb and London Stock Exchange, which is also on the Zagreb and London Stock Exchange, which is INA, which is proof of its quality and its continuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166793	Representative Grozdana Peric has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166794	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Zrinisic and his associate, so here are his colleagues, in fact, all the key words, which I would like to point out once again that the Capital Market Act was experiencing countless changes and then we had 2018 actually a new consolidated and latest text that allowed much easier entry into this abundant law with many provisions and many professions. This new, new amendment of the law actually enables and harmonizes with what is happening, and that's nice fellow Shucker said what's going on on on the European market and the capital market that's very much alive over what's going on with us. So more tailored to a higher stage than our market has now recovered in the first place. I've been looking through the last few days of the traffic on our stock market, so it's nice to see that somewhere half a month traffic was totaling about 17 million kunas, so 14, so here it was yesterday when there was only 7 million and 8.5 million kuna of total traffic, respectively. So this is proof that our capital market really works badly and that interest is very low. When you look at only a list of those who are on, published on the very market that companies nominated their shares and bonds, then you see that there are only 50 companies that are actually listed on the stock market and that's that evidence, and when you look at and traffic that some companies have bought or sold one, two or five shares then it's actually very symbolic. And then when you look at the analysis itself that this traffic is increasing by, say, a day 0, 0.1%, and sometimes a little bit more, then we see that it's really symbolic. The last thing that happened about traffic we all read the entire public what happened with Kraš shares that was actually the most liquid at a certain point, but here's everything else is really very, very, very small or symbolic. The last thing that happened as a major change was the Saponia Osijek stock, so there's some interest, but that's not something you could say for now that reflects some major activity of ours on our capital market. It is precisely the reasons that other colleagues have cited, which is that there is a large, large amount of liquid assets and in banks, there may not be so much interest in finding these, these models and ways of collecting capital, but it is also an interest rate which, lately, is also very, very low. In fact, every issuer of securities if here is now a small one not obliged to create a prospectus, then the question is how strong we are as a state that we can and that individual entities have so much responsibility to show the real situation in their company and at all how much they will project the yields that can be expected from, say, issued bonds, it is also very, very interesting because in that sense it must have very good work plans and everything else that precedes it to project expected and profit, and thus also make it happen to shareholders or bond owners themselves to provide good profit or at least some average profit. So this way I really think that the law regarding this matter is very carefully and qualityly prepared and the change itself and allows for actually better, better regulation and control of the regulator itself, i.e. the regulator itself. The HANFAs and we hope that our capital market will still function and that it will be much more quality than before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166795	Representative Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166796	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Peric, in your debate you mentioned, I think it is important to underline it again, which is that unfortunately the capital market in the Republic of Croatia and trading on the stock market is nothing. It means 2018. In total, turnover was 2.85 billion kuna and 40% lower than in 2017 and never lower than in 2001, meaning in the last 20 years. Practically last year was the worst, and now the question is why this is so, which is why we don't have companies that could present and raise capital in this way, he's given the question of a culture of investment, he's given a conservative approach to funding projects, especially because we have a lot of young innovative companies that could raise capital in this way, but they obviously don't, so here's something that needs to be pointed out here and what problem we need to deal with in the future a little bit more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166797	Replica response, MP Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166798	Well, exactly, colleague, that's what I pointed out by, here on a daily basis when you look at traffic on the Zagreb Stock Exchange and the fact is that there are very large sources of liquid assets in the banks that in this way and the European funds that we have through the EU projects where the applications of a particular company have the ability to apply to those funds and then there are certainly far more favourable conditions than it was, either before or here are the reasons why and in this way that market is quite dead at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166799	Representative Lalovac also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166800	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Peric, yes, regarding your discussion where you said that only 50th company is actually present on the capital market, which is certainly worrying because when it is taken, this morning we discussed on the Finance Committee pension funds, if it is taken to offer you pension funds on bonds, yes, to drop down and see their contributions from 2017, 2018 that they are 1 to 2% and that they can no longer produce it in terms of bonds, if we see on the other hand that they have about several billion kunas each year where they should invest in the capital market, where they should be in some major contributions. And here we only talk about 50 companies and I think it's certainly worrying about the Croatian economy, and finally for this second pension column. Is if the bonds bring in negative contributions, and there are no companies where I can invest I think we really need to work on some new projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166801	Reply to the replica of MP Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166802	That's right, namely, pension funds now have 98 billion kuna available and that's a huge capital that will surely have to find a way to fertilize that value and how it is better directed. This is now the issue of the legislative framework and the placement where possible and how it is possible to place that huge capital when we know that at an annual level over 5 billion, nearly 6 million kunas flows into these funds. And it really is very careful to think about how to channel these investments, and to make them quality and safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166803	Representative Shuker has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166804	Thank you very much. My colleagues Peric, so perhaps we should mention when we talk about this topic that the stock market is specific to something because if someone is interested in buying some shares he in principle began to initiate trade, raise the price which is interesting to those who have these shares to sell and make a profit on them. However, what this law regulates and, in particular, the Act on the takeover of commercial companies should be clearly defined as not to put those who wish to do so in accordance with certain rules, so that those who have the same number of shares and manage a company with some unfair actions and practices do not put themselves in an unfavourable position. I think we may have missed it personally, as well as other colleagues pointed out in their debate because it may not be the subject of this amendment, but that is what that law defines. Because if you're interested in something, you can blow up the prices and make a terrible mess on the market about this company.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166805	Representative Sasa Djujic reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So here's because my colleagues before me have said, these amendments to the law are regulated by the capital market in the Republic of Croatia and we welcome these changes in this law because I think it's very well done. And I will also join my predecessors who said that what we should put emphasis on in the future is certainly encouraging the capital market in Croatia. So, I think there's a lot to be done about education and approaching trade and the stock market and those who should list their shares of their companies on the stock market, as well as citizens who should use it. Many examples are already highlighted here, I will mention in what context several of them. So maybe the closest story to citizens is with shares of HT that the government in 2009 was that in 2008, later in 2007, okay, when it was released to citizens that they could enter from shares and when you look at what price the shares were bought at and what is the value of today's stock then layman says the people were lost on those shares. On the contrary, however, if we look at the people who bought that package, there were several of those packages, so they kept those shares, and they got another extra from the government every ten years, so the dividend that was paid over these ten years, when you compare the value of the shares that were bought then and today they're all positive. I can say that on a personal example, when I sum up all the dividends I've received in the last ten years on the HT stock plus this government stock in value I'm on those shares over a period of 12 years I've got more income than a loss in their current value. So, for example, citizens need to be brought closer to trading on the stock market. So it's not as fast as some think and want who once and then did it, quickly bought at one price and rapidly reselled with these very effects as fellow Shuker said because when he then jumped interest in the rule after the government fired shares to the citizens within a week the stock jumped by about 40% and who quickly sold it he earned something short. But in the long run, the decline of interest continued to fall and today's value is about 40% lower than that of the citizens at the time. But the total income per share is much, much higher than that price remained today. So this should be shown to people, and perhaps in this way the citizens would be encouraged to enter the store a little bit more. On the other hand, when capital is much more present on the market when low interest rates are then companies can easily get to capital so they may find it harder to list their shares, what we talked about. But one of the other problems I see why some companies don't want to list their shares and so enter the capitalisation of their companies is that when you enter the stock market then all the information is available on the stock market about your company, all the changes that take place in your company from staff, to expansion, investments, etc., so maybe that's one of the reasons why some companies don't want to come to the stock market at all because then everyone's available I don't know the change of director in that company, and I'm not talking about some other activities of these companies. So maybe that's one of the problems. And the other thing I see is that the rest of the laws, so we're like my colleague Shucker said to me in his debate on behalf of the club, we're about the capital markets as a country still in the bandages and we're developing and it's going better from year to year, but we certainly need to regulate some more things. So the other laws should also follow these laws, so even when we talk about criminal responsibility, so I'm not sure, but I don't think that it's quite yet regulated to trade information in the capital market, okay, maybe not enough, but let's just say, now the colleagues have mentioned the recent situation around Kraš, so other than the sudden leap of stock prices, then there's also some public talk that maybe someone had privileged information, so suddenly before the offer he bought a certain amount of shares, so in a week he earned, I don't know, considerable money. I'm not saying whether it's true or not, I don't want to believe it's true, but I don't think in other laws we're following enough of that situation to react in these cases, so if someone has some privileged information, they know that some kind of offer is going to come into the firm, which could lead to stock price growth, and then suddenly buy a certain package and make fast money, and I think that should be further regulated through criminal laws and others. Anyway, it's good to regulate and prescribe these things. Some of the phenomena that could happen in the future will also require upgrades of this law as it does its time, but in any case it is good that we prescribe it, but again, I appeal, I think we should follow this law through other laws and other regulations and put a greater emphasis on education in order to bring citizens, but also companies closer to trading capital, that is, trading capital, so that we can boost this capital market and the growth of our stock market because it is a really good space for citizens, but because of the history of our and everything that has happened in the past, citizens still have a certain skeptic against the way of trading in the stock market. Of course, there are pension funds that need to be brought closer to the citizens again which is their role because they essentially enlarge our pensions issues through their trading on the stock market and through investment through other projects, so that is also the part that needs to be brought closer to the citizens, therefore, as much as they work on education and encouraging citizens to move in that direction. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166807	Representative Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166808	Thank you very much, Mr. Giujic. In your debate, you mentioned trading privileged information which I would say, if there is any doubt of one particular case, the greatest suspicion of the Agrokor case, or the Agrokor crisis. If you remember, Mr. Ramljak, who was personally appointed by HDZ or Andrej Plenkovic to be in Agrokor's main restructuring figure, himself admitted that several days before and before that appointment he met with various investors who later, behold, bought certain Agrokor bonds on the market by discount, and could later be sold and recognised as a debt in a 100% amount. Does that sound like maybe a possible trade in information and I'm sorry about that, for example? She didn't turn on there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] our stock market or someone... [[Intruder: Time's up.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166809	Well, it's not a sentence. You've extended 15 seconds. But I'm sorry, you fit in for one minute. [[Intruder: But the whole meaning of these last 2, 3 seconds.]] Replication response. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166810	The main point of my answer is that there is this suspicion of trading privileged information and we have talked a lot about it in this home and in the public. Not to say that those who wrote lex Agrokor had all the information about certain moves there and what was going to happen, so there are certainly doubts about these jobs that it wasn't really all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166811	Representative Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166812	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djujic, you spoke of pension funds and their importance and education. This morning we discussed on the Committee on Finance where one of the pension funds actually talked about their importance, investment, for example. in one company in your area, it's Jadran Crikvenica, I think it's a bankruptcy company, which is now being restructured, which has received fresh capital from pension funds, but in the future, such companies should be on the market, looking for capital through the IPO, looking for capital private, they will now get a certain financial injection and will end up... complexes, I think it's important for both this region and tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is important, however, is that in the future such a company, when it has to go to the stock market, could eventually be released by pension funds, but the main and primary task is that such companies collect money through the capital market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166813	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166814	I agree with you, my colleague Lalovac, therefore, it is a positive example of leaving the bankruptcy company that took place after 20 years of practically falling into the pension funds, and as far as I know, in the offer that the pension funds gave, they bought another 200 million kunas, so they bought another 200 million kunas over the year in Jadran Crikvenica, they haven't yet invested all 200 million more than they invested in the phases, and they bought the expansion of the company, so they bought it, so I think they bought this company Adriatic, they're buying some other similar companies, so they're expanding in that area instead of ending investments in that company again, which I am now, to talk about whether it's a good trip or not, but certainly what is right and how it should be, that you say, that in the future, that they should be out of the future capital, that they should be in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166815	Advocacy Curly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166816	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, you mentioned the example of HT and shares and the offer of 25% to citizens who went through these packages in 2007, which then decreased through these packages, in fact, there were 265, then nearly 400 kn average price 390 and something, today 170 and yes, it was possible that in the end through dividends it was regulated, but there was one good thing you mentioned, which is the need for education or raising the level of financial literacy of our citizens. This is what we are missing, not only in terms of the capital and shares markets and in general, but also in terms of pension rights or other pillars and everything else. I think there's a key to the increase, actually the market itself and the amount itself in education. So that's enough of that for people to know, and then that's where those unloved situations happen when people go with their throats into strawberries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166817	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166818	I agree with what you have said, and I see that you are in marketing promotion of your party because every replica you have today is like your colleague Lovrinović when he says we change Croatia, so you in HNS are just saying you need education, you need science, it is a key, so here I support your campaign that you spent in education and continue so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166819	Representative Shuker has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166820	You mentioned one company and trading their shares after the list, they raised the value of the stock because it was in their interest to buy the shares that the citizens bought and when they stopped their interest in buying the shares that the value of the shares had fallen. And now you have one very interesting thing, when you look at the company balance sheet, the company works great, and the shares are far below the level of this that were at the moment of the stock market, but obviously those who currently own those shares are not interested in trade because the situation is so. If any of them were interested, the price would have jumped very quickly. However, you have touched one thing and we in Croatia very often politicize it, which is something that there is no way out there to politicise, which is trading privileged information. If the capital market rests on anything, it rests on preventing it, because if on one stock exchange it happens, and they don't sanction it, it doesn't sanction whoever's the controller, and that's HANFA. At our place or someone else, I apologize, your system is falling. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166821	Okay, answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166822	I, I don't know if you misunderstood me. I didn't mean to politicize or political at all. No, it's okay, that maybe often it's all right, but that's how it turns out, a little bit of politicizing, not exactly why, this is the coldest example that's been in the paper, I mentioned this one company, and the media have been asking if there might have been any knowledge, information trading, and then the media has said that it's not prescribed enough, and these controls are still not legally through the other laws being followed. [[I didn't tell you.]] So, okay, I was just warning these problems that we should pay attention to that. And just what you said about HT, so when it showed interest, it jumped and someone who then sold the shares made a quick profit, but those citizens who hold those shares today, in the woods, they eventually made a lot more money than they did in the short term.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166823	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, as regards the law itself, of course, that support is in that when something is simplified or does not drive certain entities into certain things that may not be necessary in view of their size and we heard in the discussion of the market that is relatively undeveloped in the Republic of Croatia what needs to be pointed out is that we need to work precisely on the development of the capital market and that we do not have a situation, as counterpart Peric said that 50 companies are present or traded with shares, and that out of these 50, only 10 companies perform on the Zagreb Stock Exchange half the traffic of the Zagreb Stock Exchange. So these are, for example, shares of HT, Adria, Podravka, Atlantica, Zagreb Banka, Atlantic navigation, AD Plastic and Viktor Lenco, so here's half the traffic of the Zagreb Stock Exchange and now that we've still got Kraš in view of several turbulent weeks, months of trading that share, that's it. It is a job done on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, and then the question is why it is so in the Republic of Croatia, which is why we still have conservative project financing, and also companies that have and would have the condition to go to the stock market rather take credits in banks than to collect unburdened shares, which is normal for all, all of the world's companies bigger, for example in the United States that we know of facebook, google, they all financed their activities at one point and listed on the market. Such events are usually followed with great attention in the world of the economy. I don't combine that size now, but there are thousands and thousands of smaller companies that, in this way, come to a certain capital in foreign markets. What is the problem in Croatia is when we see the problem of investment in company property, then a government is usually reported, and this is usually the HDZ government, or almost always, with some brilliant project that should allow this market to flourish. And then, at dusk, i.e. at sunset in 2011, experts such as Borislav Škegra, who offer the HDZ government as advisers to the project of economic co-operation funds. And now we'll see after 10 years, when the exit phase is the sum of the suma sumarum of the entire project and whether this project has received any result related to the investment in the company's assets or through the funds of economic cooperation or whether the project was originally designed to promote who it is, and in fact to ensure a few people who have been dealing with the business for the next 10 years with huge yields and profits, without any risk. Let's remind ourselves that a billion kunas have given the state from its budget to these funds and billions of kunas have given private investors, most of them private investors were either pension funds or Agrokor and his and his companies, so again those who are heavily dependent on the state and this concept that Mr. Shkegro had made possible several companies that were 10 years old. solidly alive, we would have lived even better if I hadn't become Minister in 2012. and forced the whole concept and changed the whole concept in a way that they did not receive a fixed fee of 2% every year which means 40 million kuna 5 companies each year, but according to what they invested in and that way in 4.g. I would say to reduce the compensation that the state and investors should pay about 100 million kuna which should be returned after deinvestment, but you will see now that we will be happy if, in the end, the money invested is equal to zero, and that project does not cause any loss compared to what was originally originally originally imagined. So good intentions need to be distinguished and unfortunately there are, there are these economic geniuses in the Republic of Croatia already present in the 20-30s. And in every situation they try not to help the general economy, but always their interests are intertwined somewhere. The same thing is with Agrokora, so it's amazing that, if this situation happened in the United States, the American and those who control the situation there would do such an analysis to make it very likely that the investigation would be detailed to the extent that all the questions would be answered. But we can't expect it in the Republic of Croatia if she who came up with the concept of Agrokor and called for the resolution of the crisis in Agrokor, put her friend in charge of HANFA, so her friend won't investigate her, not in his interest to cover her, not to investigate her and see if she was over with other members of the Borg group because they were all interested in investing in those e-mails famous if you remember the gentleman who later ran Agrokor, whether there was any exchange of information with those investors who were in, in, and were interested in investing in Agrokor bonds and whether these people were sure that if they bought Agrokor bonds that were being sold for 1/3 of the price at that moment, even less, whether they were sure that they would be recognised under the debt and that the state would guarantee 100% of their return, so that everyone, you invested 30, and the state guaranteed 100, and you were 100, and you were successful in doing so much, and so much, and so much more than 3 times, you could be successful, and you know that you were successful, and you were successful, and you were successful, and you know, and then. So, the problem in the Republic of Croatia is not only an undeveloped capital market, but the undeveloped institutions that control this market, when certain malversions occur to be timely and severe, that in this way they restore the trust of these possibly people who today, today is never a better time to develop such a market, because there is a lot of capital, and there is nowhere to be invested, so also citizens who have savings in banks and funds that are here we have heard now and pension funds that have no large yields, but have no more where to invest, there is a great need and a great demand for capital, banks have relatively low interest, but on deposits they have close to zero interest, in Germany there are interest even minus, there funds are doing great, flourishing because of what everyone raises money from banks because you get a negative interest to save you money, but you will not make any money, but you will still not make any money, neither, nor will you have any money, nor will have any money, nor any money, nor people give money and money to pay to the money to pay, and money to the companies to pay, and money to the companies to the funds that you pay, and then to the funds to the companies to the companies to the companies to the banks. Unfortunately, this is not happening in the Republic of Croatia, I said in part, and because of the mistrust of citizens in institutions, because of not dealing with that segment, because everything in the Republic is connected to the state, unless it's connected to the state, it's a great chance, people think it's going to fail, and while such philosophy is normal that this whole market will be as it is. And these companies that are traded are traded exclusively with those companies that pay off a dividend because there's no point in buying, and besides that shares of HT because it's not going to have to grow anything basnoslovnoslovnost, but it has a constant annual dividend payment, and then you can calculate as Mr. Djujic said whether you're going to earn something or not, he as a conservative investor, this one, let's say, has calculated that he's going to earn through a certain period and he was satisfied with that contribution, and someone who might then have sold those shares, he might have been able to invest and earn more, but everyone has, each man has his own investment profile or decides on what he fits. What I'm trying to say is, in the end, with regulation, because we're taking care of the law here today, and it's about 50 or 100 companies that it will eventually apply to in the future, so that's what I'd say to you, a market that almost in the Republic of Croatia that doesn't exist and on that side I'd like to deal with more about how to develop the capital market than how to regulate certain things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166825	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. We have replicas, dear colleague Boris Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you were actually saying out of these 50 companies that are mostly large companies, which were either in, or were monopolies or were in some state-owned property, and that's what the remains of our unfortunately capital markets are, unfortunately we don't have small and medium-sized enterprises on the capital market, you said that you were a minister and that you were working in some regulations related to those FGS that were actually supposed to cut the fees in the end so that they would actually not be able to get to you through these small and medium-sized loans, but that was actually their function of entering capital, getting into the capital market, and then getting out of those, means being encouraged to come out, that they could get that funding that they couldn't through bank loans, but it ends as it ends. However, here is one question of what is ahead of us that SMEs like we said were present outside on the capital market, and that they are not present with us, these regulations are now making it easier for them to access the capital market. However, with the economic growth of 3.4%, we do not have such companies on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166827	Thank you, colleague Lalovec. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166828	Thank you very much. What I noticed and what on several occasions reading and the foreign press I saw is that now there are quite a lot of current funds that are currently investing in small and medium-sized enterprises. So that's not the primary goal of selling the company and making some benefit even though it can be, but it's much harder to plan that way than if you find a solid business to invest. But it has to be a ten-year investment period in order to pay the profits of those companies from the return or profit. Since there's a lot of money, there's a lot of funds like that. Here I have now seen one fund of as much as 2 billion euros in England and London that it has collected and will invest in the Austrian market, Germany's damage that such funds are not more present in Croatia. It's something the government should be working on. Of course, there is a whole security, or market, that needs to be prepared very well in order for such funds to arise in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166829	Thank you. The next replica, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166830	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you mentioned Agrokor in your debate and you mentioned all the situations that were happening there about the former Deputy Prime Minister and what she was doing together and how the institutions in this country did not follow these events and did not act on it, but one more thing should be mentioned. So, colleagues from HDZ when they defended the situation, their main defence was not public money, it was not the Croatian budget that cost even kuna. So it doesn't matter where a robbery happens and who gets kidnapped, it matters that it's not allowed and that institutions need to take care of it. So that's what you should put an accent on. And as for the stock, I just want to say that today is a bigger contribution than dividends in some companies than the savings citizens have in banks. And that's what needs to be brought closer to the citizens and what they need to be educated about, along with all the risks that such investment carries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166831	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166832	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic, you're right, of course, that's what everyone needs to adjust to how they want to invest, but I'd like to correct you a little bit. Which means there's no public money in Agrokor, so someone lost. Is it thousands of small suppliers who have run out of part of their claims, are these slightly bigger suppliers like those who are now rebelling and immediately getting caught up in criminal charges for certain things they did while doing business with Agrokora? Someone must have lost. So it's not possible that someone didn't lose in this process. He lost some big money, but we can't accurately detect who they are because they're anonymous companies, but we know who got it. The consultants got 500 million kuna. Who shared that money, unfortunately we don't know that, but it should also be investigated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166833	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank the respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zdravko Zrinasic and his associate for reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166834	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 760. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Act amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act 2 is hereby adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 104 for, 7 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166835	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data, second reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament it is prescribed that the laws to be adopted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are as a rule adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I ask the representative of the motionor, the respected State Secretary of Justice, Mr. Christian Turkalj, to give us an additional explanation of the final bill. Here you go, Mr. Turkalj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166836	Honorable chairman, respected MPs, respected MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is Article 140(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and this law confirms a contract concluded between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data concluded on 9 July 2019. The essence of this contract shall be that they shall be governed in one systematic way by the exchange of data and classified data between competent national authorities. In essence, this is about creating a legal framework and rules for the protection of classified data, introducing identical classification rates, determining the obligations of national data protection authorities, also defining competent institutions as well as handling in the event of a breach of protection. It is important to note that this law does not give rise to additional burden on the state budget. Since it is no longer possible to modify and supplement the existing text that is signed in the process of concluding this contract at the stage when we are in the confirmation of international contracts. Following this government, it proposes that this Treaty be held, held, joined first and second readings and adopted, voted in an emergency procedure. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166837	Thank you, dear Secretary of State, we have a replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166838	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, what, here, just a little Mr. Pusic, now you'll come, don't be impatient, but I'm interested in one thing. So we're with Italy and we have very good and economic and every other relationship. I'm interested in a situation. So if we have certain things that are related to the banking sector, and we had a situation 5.6 years ago that one bank owned, the Croatian former bank owned by the Italian bank had one serious problem related to a pension account where some people in Croatia were found to store their money there. I wonder if Croatia has access to absolutely all data under this agreement, even in the banking sector regarding certain actions, and is Italy obliged to provide you with this information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166839	Thank you. You want an answer? Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166840	This contract applies Excuse me. This Treaty refers, therefore, to the exchange of classified data produced jointly by the national authorities of both States or exchanging between the national authorities of the two Contracting Parties, therefore, does not apply to the private sector. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166841	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Prof. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166842	... Proposal for a law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] As we've heard, the exchange of mutual protection of classified data. Basically, it's not about the law, it's about the ratification of the contract, and what you should say about it, I don't think it's just about that contract, but where it's about us, signing this agreement. In 2007, laws were adopted in the field of information security allowing for the signing of such bilateral agreements between Croatia and other countries, in connection with classified data exchanged by countries and available to them. The preface of this Treaty states that the ambition of the two parties is, in fact, that classified data is actually exchanged in political, security, military, economic and any other area in accordance with the laws and regulations of the parties. However, this is the ambition, meaning very broadly set to go in this direction, but, as already said in this answer to the question, the classified data actually in this law primarily refers to the exchange of data between public and primary parties related to international affairs, national security and defence, as well as industrial activities and operations. In short, international relations, national security, military industry and certain operations. At first, I think it is necessary to say that this law should be adopted, i.e. ratifying the signed contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic. But it doesn't have to explain too much why it's done because it's one in a series of laws that we've had in HS and this assembly, and I've been saying for the last 12 years. However, perhaps a broader context should be reminded and why the consequences of such a fragmented one should be taken into account, to say the accession and signing of these laws. I don't think it's disputed today and everyone knows that information is the assumption of economic, social development, but also political stability. Economic information on needs, market interests is as important today as it used to be with raw materials or capital. Interests, we also know that today we are witnessing that these large platforms of Google or Facebook are simply restricting their right to use information that they come to through indirect channels because they are simply resources for development and security or economic impact at all on opportunities in the world and at national and global level. If this is the case with information and data, regardless of what they are related to, then we must be aware that classified data are often the key to better understanding of these mega-information, which depends on the national future, or on which national interests can be articulated. So rightly, when we are discussing the ratification of this contract, we can ask ourselves whether this contract is just a fragment in one system that we have or simply don't have that system that we can have with all this information, that is, this fragment that has a place in that total system, or a total amount of information exchanged with all countries, and with which we already have signed contracts. We could ask now and the proposer a question as to how many of these contracts have we signed, with what kind of wishes? How much information has been exchanged on this basis? Who is in charge of the monitoring, analysis and evaluation of the total quantity of information exchanged? I don't think we'd get an answer to that question. On the other hand, we can go further with questions about who are the users of classified data inside the system? Here we have, what would you like to warn you about? Not only do we not have this whole system, but we have definitely gray zones where we don't actually know the exact roles and responsibilities within and of this kind of fragmentary system. And this law defines the security checks and certificates that employees working on must have in order to work. It is assumed that officials have the right to access that information in order to make sense. However, in our legal norms we do not prescribe that officials must have access certificates, in other words this system is fragmented not to use any other word. Just to illustrate a few possible examples. Many years ago, I think it was during President Obama, the American president appointed an ambassador for one country, I think it was an African country, but the ambassador by logic of things must have access to classified data but simply not received a certificate from the intelligence community that he could access classified information but did not get a certificate simply because he acted irresponsiblely with these data because he carried them on his laptop, didn't share them with anyone, but simply on his own, had it in his laptop, and that is assumed by the reasons that exist that they were not protected enough and simply could not go to the duty he was appointed to. Can you imagine something like this happening with us? I don't think anyone has even asked us the question that ambassadors must have a certificate before they are appointed, before they go on such a duty, so that's one of those issues that should be resolved. On the other hand, we, as parliamentary representatives, have often observed that we do not have access to certain data but the assumption is that we have a certificate that we can get such data. To obtain only a certificate, this is a formal prerequisite, however, that formal prerequisite assumes that there are a number of procedures that can be automatically taken in the event that some data is leaked to determine or to prevent accidental or deliberate data leaks. Therefore, this is something that we need to take care of, and this system should be coordinated and completed in that sense. On the other hand, we can give a series or at least one example here for an illustration that I'm not sure we're not using enough, we have insight into the amount of this data that isn't necessarily classified, but the data that comes into conflict or can come into conflict with the protection of personal data, take a simple example, travel around the world, do traffic violations and get home notice that we have to pay certain penalties because we've been speeding up or parked wrongly. Obviously, that information about our addresses goes through the Ministry, I guess, through the MUP, but what's the question or what can be asked? We don't have a service here, and we don't have reports, we don't have any insight into what the amount of data exchanged is not at the level of individual cases but of the total mass of data, how many of our people have committed violations in Austria, Italy or other country, or how much that reciprocity is when foreigners are doing these violations, or in Croatia, and that's simply the assumption that we can conclude more logically, more precisely this Transport Act that we had a month or two ago in the debate. Therefore, what should be said in conclusion is that this contract, or law, should be accepted because it is a presumption of a cultural, precise, defined, organised exchange of classified data, but we must not only stand on it, because we must be aware that if we are only going to build this system out of fragments, we will never have, we will not be able to benefit from those benefits that we should have, which any rational state administration should get out of it, but that we need to set these basic things up in a way that the whole system builds up purposely and that we benefit from them, not only, effective benefits in terms of exploiting and using this information, not only to be those who know the rules of the game, and not to benefit from those rules. Here, I said HDZ would support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166843	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166844	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, confirming the contract between the Croatian Government and the Government of the Italian Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data only to say GLAS will support this law, that is one in a series, we have already ratified a series of such laws here, it is important, it is important in general, and it is particularly important between EU members, and in this case it is particularly important that two countries that I would say bear the main part of responsibility for one small but unusually and strategically and in any other respect important sea, which is the Adriatic Sea. So when we talk about classified data, we usually think about different types of intelligence data. In this case, however, many data that are superficially related to environmental protection, to the specific protection of the Adriatic, to cruise tourism in the Adriatic which has become a serious security issue, to the Adriatic as a global tourist destination should be included in this category. In the second group of topics, the second group refers to something that may be one of the worse ones at the moment, or at least certainly destabilizing issues of Europe, which is a refugee crisis, given that Italy is on the first line, and the Republic of Croatia on the second line, dealings, I don't know exactly how to say it, but facing a refugee and a migrant crisis, so I would say primarily refugee as regards the North African states or the countries of the Southern Mediterranean or Libya as one of the left-wings through which refugees and migrants come, not only from North Africa, but also from Sub-Saharan Africa, something which, regardless of all attempts of common response, has significantly destabilised Europe in the last 6-7 years. It also refers to the Mediterranean, as a region where there are 2 of perhaps 5 key crises in the world at the moment, and these are Libya and Syria, and so there is also Algeria that is approaching yet to be at the level of this type of crisis or, in fact, the extreme situation that we have in Libya and Syria, but without further a doubt is a potential factor of instability, so I think it is important in applying this law to take care that these are all topics that are relevant to the Republic of Croatia, although they may seem to be general European or even globally, but given our geographical position and relationship with Italy and the fact that we share responsibility for the Adriatic Sea with Italy are the largest, of course with all other states that come out to the Adriatic Sea, but given the size of the coast, this type of data becomes very relevant to us, therefore, in these categories there are also data that are not typical intelligence data, but may be more relevant to some of the relevant and more relevant ones. One of the reasons for this is the fact that the Republic of Croatia wants to enter Schengen and at this point it is at one, so I would say perhaps from the most sensitive situation, looking at the current experience with countries that have had problems entering Schengen, so at the moment the Croatian Commission has received a positive assessment and the conclusion that it is technically ready to enter Schengen, it is important for us, for Croatian citizens it is unusually important, the entire series of Croatian governments worked to achieve and meet these criteria and it is one of the things that citizens feel the most direct sense of entering the EU, because it is simply the one European dream of freedom of movement of people. It is clear that it has been significantly modified since the refugee crisis in 2015, but however, anyone driving from Slovenia to, so across the border here to, say, by ferry across Italy or anywhere in Europe knows what it is and what is the difference between people or citizens of countries who are in Schengen and us who are in the EU, but we are not in Schengen. Why am I saying that at this point it's one of our most sensitive moments? Because as Romania and Bulgaria both received a positive preparedness assessment a number of years ago, so the technical capacity to function within Schengen and after that, for years, have not entered Schengen and admitted to Schengen for purely political reasons, i.e. the political assessment of whether they are able to really function and defend the EU's external borders. As far as Croatia is concerned, Croatia is in a slightly different position than Romania and Bulgaria, first geographically because it is attached to Schengen, to the state of Schengen, so not as Romania and Bulgaria who are, Romania is there, but between it is the entire Western Balkans. Croatia is directly connected to Schengen and Croatia as a population is, therefore, not a major threat in this respect, and as far as the geographical situation is concerned, it is closer to that and to that identification with the Schengen countries than in the case of Romania and Bulgaria. However, the issue of political assessment is still important and the issue of political assessment is no longer a question of whether we are able to manage the integrated management of borders, whether we have everything we need at these border crossings, is now a matter of whether we are in a political position and whether we are politically credible to get the green light and from the EU Council to qualify for entry into Schengen, which has to do with a whole series of things and a whole series of political messages and political profiling that Croatia has on the international stage, in particular on this case on the European stage to which its institutions operate, from the judiciary, which will be discussed tonight in this assembly to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest with the Ombudsman, so to the entire institutional infrastructure. To the extent that Croatia is shown to be politically credible, the EU Council will decide and I don't think anyone should have the illusion that entering Schengen is just a technical issue, it is not, the technical question is a necessary condition, so meeting technical conditions is a necessary condition, but not a sufficient condition. Sufficient conditions, along with this need for political profiling. This kind of cooperation, especially with the neighbours, is certainly a positive step, but it is also important for Croatia to show some political self-awareness, to show someone, if you want and political self-respect, and in this sense I find it absolutely unacceptable and in a completely wrong sense, that this Parliament has given up its assembly, therefore its place of legislative authority and multilaterals for a meeting of a political party. For a meeting of a European political party, namely the European People's Party. That's outrageous so far. Unheard of for de facto talking about provinciality, talking about self-respect and speaking from the judiciary, respecting the dignity of its fundamental legislative institution and in these conditions, if we think that if we do not respect ourselves and respect our institutions, that someone else will trust us and politically recognise us as one serious state and through this technical condition, we also have political conditions to enter Schengen, we are angryly wrong. Here we have spat on ourselves in soup, as it is said, we ourselves have shown disrespect for our own institutions and in this sense, such a law on the exchange of classified data is very welcome because it shows that we are technically able to cooperate, however, without political, non-blowing, not making important, but political normal self-awareness and respecting our own institutions with or without such a law, we will not achieve this goal. The GLAS Club will support this law in full awareness that its potential impact and contribution to our entry into Schengen has been annulled by the fact that we are giving our parliament up to party meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166845	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166846	Thank you very much, I think he's been injured by 238. Because I almost fell off the chair when I heard this information from Mrs. Pusic that we will let Vukic, Berlusconi and Orban go to a party meeting in HS, so to what level of us HDZ can bring down Mr. President, so it is outrageous, we cannot allow it, please influence you, you are the vice president of HDZ, stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166847	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. So, you already have one warning, you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you have already one warning, you have consciously entered into it, but I will not give you a repeat notice and take away the word, I ask you to stay away from such behaviour, you may request a break, and then you can state your position and I ask you, please do not abuse the Institute of Injuring the Rules of Procedure and I do not think that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. We are moving on to the next debate of respected counterpart Petar Skoric, a respected colleague of Sasa Djujic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so here I welcome the adoption of this agreement, I must, very briefly say some of my questions because, I must say, I'm surprised that we don't have such an agreement from before, but we're only bringing it now, but well, better ever, than never, I think the importance of this agreement has already been stressed through the debate. Among other things, I think it is very important that we have it with neighbouring countries, with neighbouring countries, not only EU member states, but because this kind of cooperation is primarily important for security reasons, especially because of the migrant crisis, but also because of some organised crime that is taking place in our areas, our countries and so on, let's say this to the Balkan route that goes from the east to the west. I only care if you can answer me how many EU countries do not yet have such an agreement with the Republic of Croatia? So, today we bring a bilateral agreement with Italy, I wonder how many other EU member states exist that do not have this kind of cooperation with our country and are there any non-EU member states with which we already have such agreements? I think it is very important that we have this and I'm surprised that, well, it doesn't matter so much with us, but at EU level, that there is no model that we have covered all cooperation with all the EU member states whose member states, but now every week we practically bring some kind of agreement, here's now this Agreement on the Exchange of Classified Data, two or three weeks ago we had a military cooperation agreement with Portugal, and then we have a humanitarian cooperation agreement, and then we have a humanitarian cooperation agreement, that there's no model for us who EU member states implies that we have all this cooperation with all the Member States, here's what my question is, and I know that it doesn't have too much to do with us as the Republic, but it's a matter of the whole of the EU, but here's a matter of very important data, so how many other Member States we have this kind of cooperation with which we can expect, in which these agreements might be able to bring, because here, that I don't enter into the details now, very important issues, which are very important issues, which are very important issues between the Member States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166849	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. We have a replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166850	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic, in your debate you mentioned one thing that should in itself be understood, which is that we exchange data with all EU Member States classified and that it works as one system to have a full overview of the situation, I think it is one of the things that will also increase the safety of the Republic of Croatia and is the purpose of our overall EU membership, the only problem is what some things, some information, our country does not use in the way it should be used. Here I mentioned I was in my debate, with Italy connecting us with a lot of things, unfortunately a lot of things and an economic bad, so we had a situation of possible money laundering in one bank that didn't result in anything, so Italy probably didn't give that information, and that's the problem, when you have an agreement, and the data isn't being delivered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166851	Thank you. Answer from fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166852	Well, here's fellow Maras, you've noticed, I don't know, for example. Now, I'm waiting for the answer to my question, I don't know if we have an agreement, for example. With Hungary, we have open issues with Hernadi on the issue of Hungary, so where is the cooperation, so on the one hand the Hungarians refuse to extradite Hernadi, refuse any form of cooperation on the matter where the Republic of Croatia suffers significant damage, and on the other hand, here you mentioned earlier and a meeting of the cracks in, in, in this high house if it is true where I don't know Orban who is the main braker and co-operation should come to a party meeting in the Republic, so these are the questions we need to get an answer on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166853	I thank my colleague Djujic for his reply. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, slowly approaching, I would say today a key debate that is very much related to this, is a report by the Supreme Court and the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia, which should show that, based on the use of classified data that is very often used in some situations related to the judiciary, judiciary, police, etc., which should show where the Croatian judiciary is, in which way the Croatian judiciary works. What we heard during the debate, which has contributed to our concern that, with all possible agreements signed with all neighbouring, friendly and other countries and in the EU and beyond, we have situations where our neighbours, for example, Hungarians ignore our judicial system. Which is why they would give us information about Hernady if they didn't give us Hernady. So, the only satisfaction from what Mr. Djujic here just said was that Hernadi can't get out of Hungary, and there he enjoys the status of still favorites of the MOL, which in Croatia is very influential through the INA and de facto INA still uses as its wholesaler, or retailer, pardon. So we see from that side that once agreements that we have with countries do not bear fruit, as I said in the situation of a Croatian bank of an Italian owner where there was a reasonable doubt because there was a huge amount of money in the account of a person who was not in Italy, but we have never heard information from the Italian state because the interest of the Italian state was greater to protect the economic operator and his or her own large bank on his territory than to give information to the Croatian side and that is the fundamental question in which we can provide ourselves and ensure the quality of information so that our judicial institutions and bodies of the state can do their job. Of course, when we talk about co-operation with other countries, the key, and with the EU framework state, this data is really amazing that we heard during the debate, which is that, in addition to cooperating with classified data, obviously HDZ does not control political cooperation with its colleagues and colleagues within the European People's Party and uses state property or the National Assembly, this is a really shocking data, it is amazing to me that no one from the HDZ has responded to it today, whether it is acceptable or not, and it is related to the fact that Mr. Arsena Bauka will sit here in the Croatian Assembly sitting as president of the European People's Party's Party, perhaps at the place of Mr. Grmoje, perhaps at the place of Mr. Orban and HDZ has privatised and politically demoted our meeting and our HS and that is also one of the things that should be discussed and that should be avoided. So I absolutely support the agreement and cooperation in those areas that are normal and that protect our dignity as states and our rights and that exercise our rights, and one of those areas is the exchange of classified data, but I do not support the collaboration that humiliates the Croatian Parliament and the assembly and thus enables the party officials of the EPS to de facto maintain their party's tide here. It's nowhere in some normal civilized democratic countries because it's simply not allowed. Can you imagine, for example, holding an EPS meeting in the UK? Or the Bundestag in Berlin? You didn't see it, and you can't, I can only sit up at the gallery, and then we can say hello to them or as it usually is, here when guests come to the Parliament to turn and accept their presence. This lets someone who is not, as I would say, chosen from Croatian citizens use the assembly room, and then we could use the assembly here for anything. Maybe for movie projections? You understand, by that logic we can rent for any Croatian assembly. Don't do this to colleagues and colleagues, I don't think it's right, that we should protect our Parliament, cooperate with other countries yes, but in this way no. So, at the end of the debate here, I want to say that I support this agreement. I hope that it will result in more effective work by our institutions, especially by the judiciary which is unfortunately the way it is in Croatia, and we will talk about it a little later, so Croatian citizens have no confidence in the Croatian judiciary. Unfortunately, our judicial officials do not instill confidence that this will be improved, as one lawyer said, the problem of the Croatian judiciary is not only the fact that the judiciary is bad but that it responds to incentives that should not be addressed and unfortunately, HDZ has made a riot in the 1990s, and continues to humanise Croatian courts, with Croatian judges, but it is a debate, I say, for a little while later when we hear what the situation is or what the representatives think about the Croatian judiciary, and believe me and 90% of Croatian citizens that the situation is not satisfactory and that it should finally be changed, and we cannot change it with rotten agreements between judges, when each other is covered and do not think about the interest of Croatian citizens. Then we won't need classified data or anything, because in the end, the Croatian judiciary unfortunately doesn't say, most judges probably do their job properly, but HDZ over those who run the Croatian judiciary has put their paws and prevents the system from functioning in the way that Croatian citizens would expect it, and even a lot of judges are unhappy with the situation in the Croatian judiciary, but unfortunately we can't change it until we change the policy that is in power in the Republic of Croatia, starting with the president of the Republic of Croatia who has made us happy with this position through the Supreme Court, so today we'll hear the situation through the Supreme Court, so today we'll hear a lot about it, and in order to have a quality judiciary we have to do a lot of things, and in order for it to have quality data and on that side of this agreement, I support and once again, I'll appeal to everything, we'll see that we're here and we're using our B. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166855	I thank you, dear colleague Maras, even though you've used most of your exposure time off topic, I've let you talk, you're wrong, but my God. We're moving on to replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166856	Thank you very much. When you mentioned examples of cooperation with Hungary and some examples of cooperation with Italy, I remembered that the State Secretary in the opening statement seemed to be telling me that, under this agreement, Member States and Italy and the Republic of Croatia themselves set the level of classification and the level of documents that will be exchanged, as in reciprocity, so as to be valid there, but from that conclusion, I do not know that I am correcting state secretaries in the final statement that this is likely to exist and that some country information is not exchanged in spite of this agreement so that there is no need to pay attention to it, because if there is no exchange of any information that is interesting to us as a country, then the question is even the need to adopt this agreement, even though it is better to have it than to have nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166857	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166858	Thank you very much. The agreement is useful and necessary if applied, if not applied, if our institutions don't do their jobs, then every agreement you have doesn't have to, and you can't use it in the way that you should, means I support full data exchange, but I also support data availability and support availability and persons who have committed crimes in the Republic of Croatia by other countries and the obligation to extradite, means we have a very good system, means we have people who have been convicted of criminal activity in the Republic of Croatia, go to BiH and live there in some way as they live, appear, are still socially influential, still have very good contacts, and unfortunately with judges in the Republic, they praise themselves in the media, so unfortunately our system is still not, not good enough for the standards that we would like to have together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166859	Thank you. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague of the Sun's Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, and I support the truthfulness of the data, but I do not support your lack of information, and I am sorry when secret agents, let's say 007, are not familiar with the fact that on 11 February, Mr. Joseph Daul sent a letter to HS asking him to give up the premises that were assigned to the meeting of the HS presidency on 16 April, I made such a decision that for 75,000.00 kn about to be paid by the EPP, which is not a lonely thing, so it was in the European Parliament, it was in Lithuania, Denmark and Finland. So, fellow Maras, if you are not familiar with this, then I ask you to stop being surprised, to get familiar with the situation, to inform yourself of what decision the HS presidency has made and do not be jealous that HDZ will host the largest political gathering ever in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166861	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166862	Thank you very much. I'm no longer surprised by HDZ, so if you recognize the surprise in my, in my discussion, I'm no longer surprised by HDZ, so I'm aware that HDZ is using this country as if it's his personal property and it's not from yesterday, it's years ago, from privatisation onward, maybe it's funny to you, but to Croatian citizens it's not funny and it's a problem that the Republic of Croatia has, from the judiciary to the property of public enterprises, you act like it's your property and now you're just projecting it on HS. If we were in Denmark, if you were a political party like Denmark in power, it probably wouldn't be so much on people's nerves, but since you've prostituted Croatian society to that extent, normally people are allergic to it. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166863	...college Maras. The answer to a few things was in the subject, as was the question of colleague Glavak, and since I let her speak, then I let you go, but here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166864	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Art. In 238, I don't think you've heard, and I believe you've heard that you would react to the conclusion of what your colleague Maras was talking about. For starters, you're very rude, take it down to some low branches here and replicate to me and answer me for something I didn't say at all. Therefore, if you have found yourself offended by the fact that no one has informed you about what is happening at the Bureau meetings, that is your problem, so perhaps you are irrelevant, so you do not need to be informed about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166865	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glavak, for not being injured by the Rules of Procedure. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on this agenda point. I conclude the debate, thank you to another Secretary of State, Mr. Christian Turkalj, and his associates and associates for their explanation. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166866	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 758. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. I am voting on that final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 111 votes for the adoption of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166867	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. Here's your colleague, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166868	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and related to the item of the agenda Report on the work of the Supreme Court or the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and 2018. please pause for at least half an hour. In view of the fact that October 2019 is today, and in the agenda of 2017, I believe that the MPs did not have enough time to prepare for it, so it should be approved for at least half an hour so that representatives can prepare themselves, but joke aside. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is an absolute disgrace. The report on the work of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and 2018 is only discussed in 2019 two years after some of the events that should be discussed today took place. And why are we discussing this now? Not because the rulings wanted it, not because the rulings thought that there were problems in our judiciary that the Parliament should be manifested. Not because the opposition intervened, because it applied its business law and because it conditioned and insisted that this debate be placed on the agenda. And as far as the ruling ones are concerned, it's probably all great in the judiciary as well. And as in Mr Plenkovic's report, the government's Annual Report, everything was as great as if we were in Sweden, so it's obviously great for the ruling and in the judiciary. There was no situation for the defendants of long-standing rape to be released, instead of being sentenced to an investigative prison, there was no statute of limitations in Mr. Cutle's cases, not those with developmental problems ended up in prison and then died. No, everything is great in Croatia, and this is not something to be discussed. But we disagree with that, we insisted, and since two years were not enough to prepare, we're asking for another half hour so that the MPs can prepare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166869	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin. By the way, you got this report in the 5th month. 2019 one, and 2018 also in May, so that you had plenty of time, but if you need another half hour, I'll think about it a little bit more, while fellow Schibola says his opinion. Here's your pal, Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166870	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. On behalf of the Independent Youth List Club, I am looking for a break, also as Mr. Grbin of half an hour, although I believe the break should be much longer in view of the proportion of corruption in the Croatian judiciary. What shocked me was the 2016 Justice Trust Research carried out by the Ministry of Justice on the recommendation of GRECO. Judges who were questioned in the survey, 64% believe that the corruption of judges is one of the loud causes of mistrust in the Croatian judiciary. I find that shocking information and my question is who will answer because of the current state of the Croatian judiciary? Whom we can address today, because whoever is responsible for the situation in the Croatian judiciary was supposed to resign yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166871	Thank you. Dear colleagues Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166872	Dear Vice President, I demand a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to consult once more within the club on everything that has been done in the judiciary to improve the situation in the judiciary. Also, through a mini-reform where we have introduced some new institutes such as a visual dispute which should also lead to a reduction in the number of cases in courts. Also, criminal courts were suspended and joined with municipal courts, so that, in fact, because of the reduced pressure of the cases on the criminal courts and that the number of cases would be evenly distributed to all judges. In addition, to point out that it is not good to create, on the basis of certain cases, a complete negative opinion and mistrust in the justice system because it is not good for us to not create such a climate in society to judge the street and to judge it through media space. Courts must judge independently on the basis of established facts and I think it is the only way we can achieve what is the objective, and that is the rule of law. I'm looking for a half-hour break, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166873	Thank you. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166874	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Sessa, the judiciary today is in Croatia at low levels. Citizens don't believe you, they don't believe you who are responsible for the situation in the judiciary, who you've staffed means in the judiciary, so one caste of people has been created who decides everything and who decides not to respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, you have recently meant DSV that promotes judges, so that's caste, yes, which you belong to, has decided not to apply the laws that were passed here in HS because in the election of judges of the High Criminal Court, you have applied the old rules, and you have not complied with the laws that were passed here in HS. How can the Croatian judiciary function when those who are the cream of the judicial system do not respect the laws that passed this HS? How can the Croatian judiciary function when judges avoid publishing their property cards, and this government and this ruling majority benefit them. Mr. Sessa, you yourself, when you had one land resale with Agrokora, you also didn't report in your property card that transaction. The lack of confidence in the judiciary, especially this elite who improves and elects judges, is enormous and needs to be changed. I went so far as to say that we should apply the model of early retirement judges. Not just for the judges of the former regime, but also for the judges you appointed. Who are named by similarity, and not by expertise, means who, unfortunately, make judgments that undermine the confidence of Croatian citizens in the judiciary. I'm looking for a break to consult at the Most Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166875	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 16 and 45 minutes. It's 4:17 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:45 A.M.]] Before continuing, I welcome and welcome the students of the 20th generation of the one-year expert diplomatic study of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, I welcome and enjoy your stay in the Croatian Parliament. We're moving to the agenda point. I suggest I start an art class. Article 247(3) The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are held in a united debate on: - Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the State of Judgment for 2017 - Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the State of the Court of Justice for 2018 Is there anyone who opposes this proposal? There isn't. Thank you. As no one opposes this proposal, I find that we will conduct a united debate on these two points. The President of the Supreme Court shall be the President of the Supreme Court. 45 Laws on Courts, the debate was conducted by the Justice Committee, the government delivered an opinion. I call on the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Djurus Sesu, to give us an additional explanation of the report for 2017 and 2018, please welcome Mr. President of the Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166877	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, esteemed MPs. My written report for 2017, 2018 you received, it was submitted within the deadline. Since the debate is united, I will talk about one and the other report so as to compare the state of the judicial authority in both 2017 and 2018 and give one comparative analysis of the movement of the situation in the judicial authority during this period. Of course, it is now submitted at the end of 2019 but for a general picture of the situation in the judiciary, I think that image can be obtained from it. Namely, this report is drawn up to be based on a constitutional provision that the judicial authority is carried out by the courts and is then engaged not in any other segment of the judiciary but only in the work of the judicial authority in the past 2 years. The Court of Justice is conducted by courts in Croatia, as you know there is a Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia as the highest court in the Republic of Croatia and there are state and appeal courts and it is the High Court of Commerce, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and the High Court of Justice, there are 15 county courts and municipal courts whose number has been reduced from 107 to 32 in recent years. When you look at the results of the work of the courts and in general the situation in courts over the past 2 years, the general trend is that the number of judges in the Republic of Croatia has been reduced. In 2017 there were 1788 judges and in 2018 there were 1752 judges. Total employees in courts in the Republic of Croatia including judges, judicial advisers, all officials and deputies were 8316 employed and in 2017. 8392, so there's also a certain drop. What is a trend that is not yet alarming but is worrying about reducing the number of judicial advisers that were in 2017. 662 and in this year 648. In fact, it is shown that court advisers leave courts even though their work in courts has a very high significance and contributes to the general trend of reducing the number of cases in courts to a significant extent, it is due to small wages, the latter, because of the very small possibility of the prospect of progress, although now the new Law on Courts will allow yet another step in the progress of judicial advisers, therefore, the court advisers should come to one position in my court to have a career as judicial advisers and the possibility of progress or entry into the judicial authority where, of course, it is more constraint and somehow will and the opinion of the judicial authorities that the number of judges in the Republic should be reduced through certain measures because they also show trends in the number of cases. What is therefore compared to the situation in 22017, in 2018 we had 36 judges less, and in this year 2019 that number increased even more, so this trend of the number of judges in the Republic of Croatia decreased and the results in some ways increased in the number of resolved cases. If in the first part of my report, it's about the summation of the number of cases and the general state of the number of cases at the end of the year, and if we look at the comparative tables then we'll see that in 2017 new cases were received in courts, so only in one year million and 242 300 in 2018 slightly less millions and 160 130 cases. This shows that the new inflow of cases in courts is enormous, that in view of the number of inhabitants and of the overall economic activity in the Republic of Croatia is disproportionately large and this is also an indication that the jurisdiction of the courts or the legal jurisdiction of the courts is very broad and that, if it can be said so, it increases from year to year by spreading the jurisdiction of the courts. If you look at the number of cases solved in 2017 and 2018 in 2017, a million and 278,000 17 items were solved, 464 thousand cases remained unresolved, and in 2018 the number of cases solved was slightly less than one million and 216 thousand, but the number of outstanding cases at the end of the year was 407 thousand 062, so 12% less unsolved cases at the end of the year than in 2017. Trends in the number of pending cases decrease from year to year. So I would show it as a very important trend. What is also very important is the indicator of the success of the work of the courts, and this is said about how much the case was received in relation to the resolved cases and the trend is that in 2017, 102% were resolved at 2016 level, 103% more cases than were received, and 104.32% more cases were solved in 2018 than were received. Thus, with fewer judges and judicial advisers and a smaller number of general officials, a number of cases have been resolved, as well as what is the essence of the effectiveness of the judicial authority. Since the judicial authority is entrusted to judges, it is personally important to address the individual burden of judges and whether they can in one calendar year solve as many cases as before them, how many cases are automatically assigned to them, and the number is on average reduced, so that at the end of 2017, it was unresolved by court and court adviser 193 cases, and in 2018 this burden was reduced to 173 cases. Therefore, the individual burden of judges and court advisers has been reduced on average, which can also contribute to better efficiency of courts. When looking at the movement of cases and indicators of success by type of courts, then it will be seen that in municipal courts the number of cases remaining unsolved in 2017 would be 282.579, and in 2018. 249,740 cases, therefore, have been reduced by a significant number of 33 almost thousands of cases less in municipal courts. In the county courts, it's similar in '17. It was 49,943, and in '18. 43,124 remains unsolved. And not to read all these numbers now, the trends in the reduction in the number of cases and in the commercial court are smaller and in the High Court of Commerce are smaller, in administrative courts smaller. There are only a number of pending cases at the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia where the number of pending cases is compared to '17. increased by some 800 objects. At least I shouldn't say that since I'm the President of the Supreme Court, the biggest and most successful trend in reducing the number of cases is at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia where in '17. There were 17,444 pending cases, and in '18. 14.926. It's a very heavy burden on the Supreme Court that solved nearly 11000 280 cases. Namely, the inflow of the case to the Supreme Court is too great, and because the legislative solution to access the Supreme Court was very liberal. With the latest amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, I hope that this will change and that the Supreme Court will be able to come into a position to carry out its constitutional role in a constitutional manner, and that it is evening court practice, so that with time, with some other measures, it will be able to assist judges with lower courts, and that the Supreme Court will succeed in a few, over a few years, in a stable situation, and that it will be able to carry out in full, as I would say, full lung performance of its constitutional role. So, apart from the High Court of Justice in all courts, there was a reduction in the number of cases remaining pending at the end of the year. According to the performance indicator, there were also significant shifts from '17. the year so that the municipal courts in 2017 solved 100% of the inflow and average duration, the average time of the procedure was 130 days, and in 2018 104% of the inflow was resolved and the duration of the procedure was reduced to 118 days on average. In county courts, it's similar, 104% and 107% in '18. and the duration of the proceedings is reduced from 183 to 160 days. In commercial courts, the speed ratio is approximately the same, but the duration of the procedure in 2017 decreased to 71 days to 64 days. So, on average, in commercial courts, the procedure takes 64 days. In the High Court of Commerce, there is somewhat less up-to-date, but it also reduced the duration of the proceedings from 389 days to 336, so in the High Court of Commerce, the cases are generally resolved by appeal within one year. In administrative courts, there was also a trend in the duration of proceedings from 258 days to 197, with the High Administrative Court due to a change of jurisdiction that led to a negative trend in the duration of the proceedings and the level of urgency but this is still about 200 days which I do not consider to be a major, larger problem. In the Supreme Court, it also reduced the frequency from 110% of the cases received to 128% compared to those received and decreased the duration of the procedure by 200 days, from 651 to 483. It is similar in criminal courts and in the High Court where the number of days of proceedings was also reduced, in 2017 it was 317 and in 2018. 224. With an increase in frequency from 142% in 2017 to 158% in 2018. If you look at the trend in the rate of solving the subject, it is on the p. 28 reports for 2018, it is clear that all courts are mostly the least dealt with, so they solve current inflows, so they are on a one-off basis 100%, with a large number of courts having a much higher frequency which is therefore to solve more cases than they have received and thus reduce the backlogs, and the result of this work is precisely a reduced number of unsolved cases from 467 000 to 407,000. Also get from table to page. 29 It sees that the length of proceedings in all courts is mostly reduced, so the number of days required on average to resolve a case has been reduced. It also shows quite a quote from the so-called so-called. The European Court's scoreboard where courts in the Republic of Croatia are particularly related to the duration of the procedure, the duration of the first-degree procedures, the duration of the second-degree procedure together are located somewhere in the middle of the process, among the 28 EU countries, so that I plead that this report is read fully and that each of the segments shown there is particularly valuable and that it is read in one total and that it shows that the trends in the urgency of the courts from year to year are better. If, then, in addition to the general state of the courts, we can also see the report on the page. 31 How, how long and how procedures are being resolved in different types, areas of trial and various types of proceedings, so in criminal proceedings, it is almost up-to-date compared to 2017 and 2018, somewhere around 97%, when a total first-degree and second-degree trial is observed. In civil cases, there was an increase from 102% to 108% and in 2018 and the duration of the procedure was reduced from 328 days to 297. The administrative procedures also reduced the duration of proceedings from 234 days to 197, in executives from 211 to 178, in trades from 344 to 334, infractions from 121 to 129, and in land-registered from 33 to 34 days. So, on average, land-book items in front of Croatian courts do not last more than a month and none of these indicators shown in days indicate that average cases are solved within one year. If we look at the report, data on a particular type of court were also given, from the municipal to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and it can be seen from that part of the report that the number of outstanding cases in municipal courts was reduced, in 2017 it was 282 579, and in 2018 there were 249 740 outstanding cases at the end of the year. Of course, municipal courts are the courts of the highest jurisdiction, there is the largest inflow of cases from all the branches of the trial so that these figures are of course and as far as municipal courts are concerned. When looking at the success of the work of municipal courts, in 2017 the total duration of the procedure was 130 days, on average in 2018 it was 118 and ultimately the individual burden of judges was reduced on average from 254 cases to 231 cases. This has also contributed to the merger of courts, so that we now have 32 municipal courts but has made it possible that within courts and their permanent services more uniformly schedules of work on cases because so far the practice has shown that municipal courts in larger city centres are more burdened with more cases and that, of course, judges in these courts have much more work to do and that they have far more tasks ahead than in courts in smaller cities or smaller cities, it is now possible to evenly deploy the burden of the case and, therefore, there has been a reduction of individual restrictions on judges and I repeat, the key question of any court's effectiveness is the individual burden of judges of the number of cases. When looking at various types of cases in municipal courts, it will be seen that the number of cases has been reduced, however, there has been some reduced inflow of cases compared to 2018, but in the end 249 740 cases remained unsolved and in 2017 282 57 were increased from 100% to 104.3%, therefore 104% of the inflows of cases were resolved. When the courts are looked at individually then they will be seen that they are mainly in courts, in all municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, that this trend of unsolved cases is reduced at the end of the year. Only the Municipal Labour Court in Zagreb has slightly increased the number of pending cases, but this is clear for one 40 cases thus does not represent any, no big, big problem that could not be answered in the following year. Therefore, this trend of good and up-to-date work of courts continues from 2017 and 2018. Also, Table 16 on page 37 shows that, overall, the average on-the-spot update was 112.18% in 2018, while in 2017 it was 101, 101%, respectively, the total labour intensity of the total municipal courts increased by 12% compared to 2017 and decreased the duration of the procedure from 271 days to, and there was 287 in 2017. Following the greatest burden of courts and courts' work, the county courts. When you look at the general state, therefore all the cases that come to the county courts whether they are first-degree or that they are tried as a second-degree appeal court, it is evident that the number of cases solved is almost the same. So in 2017 and 2018, courts resolved some 99,000 cases by little, but also by county courts, the number of pending cases from 49,943 to 43,124 cases was reduced. It was also raised in 2017 by 104%, with 107% in 2018 and reduced the duration of the proceedings from 183 days to 160. Also an individual load such as less than 102 objects as it was in '17. by Judge at 90 in 2018 I would like to mention this very good measure which, which is essentially very simple, is that since county courts do not have in the appeal procedure, they do not generally have a main debate. So it was possible for cases regardless of which municipal court they came from, when they were told a complaint that they could be evenly deployed to all the county courts in the Republic of Croatia, leading to a reduction in the burden of the work of judges in the major cities of Osijek, Zagreb, Rijeka and Split, and giving so to say cologially to courts in smaller, county courts in smaller areas which did not have so many cases in view of the court area to which they were ordered. So now, it turns out that at least in the civil branch of the trial, appeal procedures don't last longer than 90 days on average. Therefore, it is a very good measure other than giving, providing greater urgency to the courts, so that legal protection is provided faster and enables evenly scheduled transactions between all courts, and these cases are deployed automatically, automatically, by the automatic allocation of cases, so that the system is electronically introduced into the system immediately assigns the case to the court and the judge, taking care of the burden so far. Compared to the overall jurisdiction of the county courts, the court's urgency, the county courts increased from 104.86% in 2017 to 107%, while the burden per judge was reduced from 182 cases to 160 cases. Most of the time, in all the areas of the trial, the urgency has increased, a little bit more unresolved cases in these most complicated cases of war crimes and USKOK, but for these reasons, it is up to me in my court, if I may say it is the case of exceptional cases that should not be seen at all as these ordinary cases because they are, by their approach, the scope, the number of witnesses, the number of evidence, the problems that arise in obtaining evidence, etc. the cases outside each category and the judges who receive these cases have a terrible burden, having a very high burden to end them in view of the long-term and possibilities provided by the current CAP in relation to the possibility of investments between, in the inter-stage proceedings of different legal medicinal products which delay the procedure. I hope that the new CAP will try to change these options rationally without, of course, questioning the rights of the defendants who, who also have a certain level and must be given them a certain level of protection. In civil cases, what you would like to say is that the quality of the work of the courts is better. So in 2018, 16% of the cases were abolished, so 84% of the cases passed the appeal control so that the decisions of municipal courts were confirmed. In '17. It was 17%, so the quality is mostly the same, and in the criminal branch of the trial is equal in '17. And in '18. The year and is 18% So 18% of all appeal cases which came to the senior court were returned due to a certain deficiency in these decisions or in the manner in which the proceedings were conducted, while in 84% and 82%, respectively, these cases received confirmation in the control of the appeal proceedings. It is similar when you look at the results of work in all the county courts. On average, 43,000, 1,000, 43,124 cases were unresolved at the end of the year compared to 49,943 in 2017. In trade courts, the trend is the same in both the years this report relates to more resolved than it has been accepted and it is a constant trend, it is a general assessment that can be given from the data which, the statistical data available to the system, is that it is a constant trend in the reduction of unsolved cases at the end of the year. Therefore, 33,237 cases remained unsolved in 2017 and 29,444 cases remained unsolved in 2018, thereby reducing the number of pending cases by almost 12%. Furthermore, during the course of the proceedings, the average duration of the proceedings was 71 days in 2017 and in 2018. 64 days and also considering '17. There has been a reduction in the individual burden of judges and court advisers by the number of cases. Trends of urgency, i.e. the proportion of cases received and solved, are about 102% in one year. When you look at the number of lengths of procedures then you see that this average 81 day is of course to be taken more rationally and to observe the duration of procedures in terms of species. So the litigatory objects last for an average of 374 days, so about a year, in 2017 it was 383 days. The executives last 80 days, 88 days in '17. They lasted 135. Exterior 98 days, 120 in '17. The bankruptcy items 335 days there extended the duration of the procedure for something small in '17. It was 313. Calming is also here somewhere at the level, with the court register solving cases within 6 days. So all of this when you add up and the number of cases turns out to be 7 64 days in the total duration of the proceedings in commercial courts, and in '17 it was 71 days. This trend and those related to all commercial courts are mainly reflected in the individual work of all trade courts in the Republic of Croatia, so that more cases have been resolved than in 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166878	Thank you, Your Honor. at any moment you'll have a chance to get back to me and then [[Intruder: I can only...]] Tell the truth. [[Intruder: I can only conclude.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166879	Here, I would just like to say that, at the end of my report, there are some recommendations and, if I may say one of the recommendations when the report was written was the establishment of the High Criminal Court, it is, of course, already at the stage of realization. I believe that the redefining of the network and types of courts should be completed and another two existing criminal courts should be brought together with existing municipal courts in Zagreb and Split. Equalise the level of salaries of all judges participating in a second-degree procedure regardless of whether it is a state court, i.e. high commercial, administrative or county courts. The current solution to the higher incomes of those judges who themselves participate as members of the council in BUSCOCK cases and war crimes cases should be excluded, and greater remuneration should only be given to judges who judge as judges of the council because great injustices are being created between those who really judge and lead the proceedings of those who are judges and participate in the work of the council. To pass a Law on judicial delivery that would in a unique way resolve the issue of judicial delivery in all kinds of proceedings and what I have already mentioned to rationalise the rights of parties by investing legal remedies on decisions during the proceedings. And if it is possible to provide in the budget of the Ministry of Justice a special fund that can be established from those funds that have been saved by judges and unnamed Supreme Court judges that these judges who will come to the Supreme Court can be additionally approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166880	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, to the Supreme Court, Mr. Sessa. [[I'm sorry.]] We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166881	President of the Supreme Court, it seems, Đuro Sessa, that after your report, honey and milk only need to get barrels, but the judiciary is a key problem, so here are a few questions. The first question, in 2018, the Government announced the law which passed and voted this House that you would publish and that it would be available to all property cards of judges, you do not respect the law. What makes you so right about that, Mr. Sessa? Everybody so they can see it. Why don't you respect the law on the appointment of new judges, the same law that the PR service of the rulings so hinted at? So you're absolutely the ones who break the law, you're the judiciary, you're the Supreme Judge, you're the President, you're the ones who'd tribal the judiciary, not let the judge tell Mr. Zivkovic that he regrets his sons in Vukovar alone. How do you comment? The biggest verdict is for the Croatian people that we have this kind of justice and you as the Supreme Judge. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166882	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. President. If we're looking at your report, if we're reading these numbers at first glance, everything seems to be fine, at first glance we seem to have a huge shift in the quality of the trial, but that's not so. A series of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia show that unfortunately the quality of decisions made by Croatian courts does not follow these numerical shifts. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia had the opportunity to see this in practice, several days ago in that infamous case of rape in Zadar where suspects of multiple rape that lasted for a longer period of time were released. Fortunately, the second-degree court corrected the mistake, however, the fact that such decisions result in a serious negative perception of the Croatian judiciary as a whole. Mr. President of the Supreme Court, you are the only one who has the authority to initiate proceedings against all judges in the Republic of Croatia when they break the law, will you begin to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166884	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166885	Thank you, Vice President. President of the Supreme Court. In your very explanation of this report, you have mentioned this very outflow of court advisers, but I think on page 18, 19 it says that in the overall picture the largest number of judges is between 55 and 65 years old and the defeating sentence, “no judicial official who acted in office in 2018 is less than 30 years old”. We know that there has been any ban on employment and new trainees and advisors, I think that many generations of young lawyers have been denied and that they have not been able to approach the court, now the judicial advisors are leaving us, and you as the chief organizer of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, my question is are you paying attention to that, are you keeping an eye on this statistics? In five years, we may have a problem with de facto not having new advisors and new fresh judges is a lot of them going to retire. And I repeat, many of the last few generations of young lawyers have been denied access to court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166886	Thank you. Dear colleague Marin Schibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166887	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Sesa, I have one specific question so I would ask you to answer that question, since you have not answered the questions of the previous speakers. I am interested in the question of the retroactiveness of the Consumer Credit Act. In 2016, the Supreme Court held that the 2015 amendments do not have retroactive action, while on the other hand, the Constitutional Court stated in 2017 that they did. I'm interested in whether the Supreme Court will do something to bring these practices in line with the two courts? Do you have any correspondence and how is it possible to have such different attitudes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166888	Thank you, dear fellow Skiboli. Next replica, respected counterpart Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166889	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Judge Sesa, I received an answer to one question on the Justice Committee, but the Croatian public couldn't hear it at the time because it wasn't followed, so I'm going to ask you one more time to answer the same question. And the question is, will the legal issues still stem from the Franak case have priority in the Supreme Court, and above all the legal issue of the integrity of the CHF contract and the legal issue of the mathematical compensation of consumers who converted CHF loans? So these two issues are in some way already in the Supreme Court, so I'm wondering if these issues will have a priority in deciding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166890	Thank you, colleague Alexic. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here's your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166891	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sesa. Regarding your report on how to shorten the time of proceedings as a cancer of the Croatian judiciary, there is one thing in practice next, so in one capital punishment, where you say the defendant is also working for the State's Attorney's Office, and for example in a part related to a bribe of 100 or 200 kuna, you have 11 judges in that case, so the judge of the investigation, three in the defendant's council, a split council of the Board of Appeal and the President of the Court, so 11 judges do, for example, in one such act. I think that thinking should go in that direction and see that these things don't happen, and that will shorten the time of procedure amongst other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166892	Thank you. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166893	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We had the opportunity to hear from the Supreme Court president a report on the work in the judiciary, which in the most part falls back from the public's position, all polls and analysis, and among other things a few years ago, the SOA, which stated in its report that 20 judges were a security threat to national security. So here's what I'm interested in is, after that SOA report, did you take our security intelligence agency and take what steps to get rid of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166894	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166895	Thank you very much. Mr. Sesa, you are known in the media as the HDZ Commissioner for the Judiciary. So you're the politically appointed person the HDZ has chosen and that's why we have the judiciary that we have at this point. My question is very simple, once you have protected Judge Turudić who has not stopped at the invitation of the Croatian police and you have accepted the behaviour of the Croatian judge, I ask the question once again asked by Peđa Grbin before me. Are you going to press charges against a judge in Zadar or are you going to protect him as you protect all of your friends and judge Turudic next to the healthy eyes we all see? The man refused the police order, stopped after I don't know how many times, instead of stopping when the police told him. So tell me, Mr. Sessa, are you going to continue to commissioner in front of HDZ or are you going to protect the integrity of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166896	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Based on Article 240 of my colleague Maras and Article 238, because you do not stick to the subject, I give you a reminder, one more, the next warning I will take away your word. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166897	Mr. Vice President, this report suggests that there is still one systemic problem in the processing of the war crimes of the enemy army, so the JNA and the Chetnic formations. So the approach is mostly very limited and territorial and time-consuming instead of seeing the overall operation of the enemy army as such. make up international courts or some of the prosecutions of other states. So, regardless of the practice so far, I believe that it is necessary to revise such an approach to this, and I appeal that this aspect is also seen because it is one of the fundamental issues in order to increase the confidence of Croatian citizens in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166898	Thank you. We're moving on to the next replica of the esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166899	Thank you very much, Vice President. President of the Supreme Court in your report says that in the last three years, the rate of urgency has been increased especially in the Supreme Court, by about 129%, but given the inflow of new cases, there is still a large number of pending cases. Can you compare the data on how many cases are coming to us by one judge, and how many in some other countries in order for our citizens to gain insight into the burden of our judges by the number of cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166900	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166901	Mr. Vice President, I just got off the phone with my colleague, Maras, right after you gave your notice to my friend, and he called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but that's what he would refer to. Therefore, I believe that Article 239 was injured because you called in the notice of your colleague, Maras, to Article 240, which speaks of a reminder by taking away a word. Therefore, in a specific case, I do not see which provision of Article 240 was injured by fellow Maras because he is talking about calling for violence or hatred, insulting Croatian people, religious, national and other communities, sexual, gender and other groups, as well as foreign and international organisations and their representatives. So, they're not fulfilled, I didn't see Mr. Maras exactly that provision of the article that you gave him the notice to confirm, so I'd like to make a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166902	You're not a good case, I said in case he keeps.../incomprehensible/... since he already has one reminder, then I'm going to take his word from him on the basis of Article 240. We got another one, so I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166903	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Bauk violated Article 236. The Rules of Procedure, and so did you, because if a colleague named Bauk had come forward at the time that you gave a warning to a colleague of Maras, you had contacted your colleague, Bauk, please, at the time of the speech of your colleague Stier, you were in violation of Article 236.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166904	Dear fellow Shucker, allow me to conduct the session, and thank you for your due diligence, for your help, my colleague has just come forward as soon as I haven't seen his license plate, so I've made an oversight, and it's not him. Here you go, Comrade Bauk again. Comrade Shucker, please, thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166905	Mr. Vice-President, I suggest you change the strict measure to a warning, because if a colleague of Maras received a warning he did not get during this point, there is no cumulative collection of warnings during the day, but the reminder refers to a specific point. In that sense, it's my intervention, and I won't report back after I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166906	My colleague Bauk is wrong, read the Rules of Procedure a little better, and in your opening statement you did not call at all which article was injured, so please do not continue to abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We continue our work, the next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166907	Thank you. My, I'll actually have an observation since my colleague Sessa doesn't answer any of our questions, and it would be interesting and there were very interesting questions on both sides. So, what I was curious about was he even familiar with the situation that was made a precedent and that the first time a minister tried twice to influence the judiciary? In particular, you know that a huge number of doctors are doing a huge number of 3 million hours overtime and that they have therefore filed justified lawsuits that over 95% end up in favor of the doctor. The minister tried to influence, the first thing he wrote to the minister of justice, which was the wrong address, and the second one, he wrote to the Municipality court in Bjelovar, as well as to rule for the benefit of the doctor. I was wondering, actually, that's what I was expecting, but I don't know if I could get an answer. Is he familiar with this and did he receive an inquiry because he would be the right address to wonder if the practice should be evened depending on how the doctors and their overtime are judged?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166908	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Pranic. Here's your colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166909	Thank you, Vice President. President of the Supreme Court in your report you mentioned the urgency of the county courts and how this increased. So now we see an example in this week where two criminal proceedings were rejected according to the largest tycoon from the time of privatisation to Mr. Kutla for which he was charged with over 100 million kuna. I'm interested in being a parliamentary representative who will pay for court proceedings and whether it will fit anyone's name and last name that a case that lasts over 10 years can go so easily into obsolescence and it's not just one or two cases, according to that person over 15 cases went out of date. And we're talking about the Croatian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166910	Thank you, dear colleague Pranic. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166911	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Sesa. On page 5 of the report, you called for Article 45(6). The law on courts, I agree with that, I have no objection. It says that "the Croatian Parliament will not debate or take views in the state of individual court cases because it would violate the independence of judges". However, because of my colleague and colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament for the sake of the public, I want to say that the independence of the Croatian judiciary will not be violated by this debate because the pressure on the independence of the judiciary never goes public, it is always behind the public's eyes, so that it will not now get the wrong impression that we here cannot discuss just the figures that you have presented. In fact, we have to discuss these very cases where we believe that pressure has been placed on the courts because it is evident from strange and unnatural judgments. That's what I wanted to contribute to this debate, and it's a shame you're not answering any lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166912	I thank my esteemed colleague. Here's a reply to the replica, the Honorable President of the Court of Justice, Djuro Sesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166913	I don't know the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament enough, and I think eventually I'm gonna be able to answer all these questions when, I mean, I can do it quickly in a few sentences, so I thought when it all goes away, then I'm gonna say every question two, three sentences that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166914	I thank the Honorable President, it's your right. At any moment you have the right to take the word or eventually respond jointly in the final word. We move on to the next line, respected counterpart Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166915	I would like this report, which is shown almost exclusively through statistics and comparisons of what is today compared to what was last year or before last year, to mean that it is badly compared to the worse one, and then some shifts there are recorded for the better. However, I think the comparisons should be according to some of the standards that we would like to achieve, and it is fortunate that apart from our reports that are internal where we want to boast that we have improved a few percent, there are also some reports that work independently outside the EU at EU level which unfortunately speak, that Croatia is firmly at the beginning in the judiciary. This is so, unfortunately, I have a report in front of me by EU Justice... which, by the European Commission and almost all standards, Croatia is in the last or the last place by all means. It's a sad fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166916	I thank my dear colleague Turina Đuric. We move on to the next replica of respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166917	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Sesa. You spoke in your presentation of the average length of the procedure and certainly that each of the interested parties wants the procedure to be completed as soon as possible to know whose benefit and judgment it is. However, there are cases where the wider community is interested in the outcome of proceedings as is the case in Marina Pirovac, I believe that you yourself know about the problems of property-legal relations and three years ago the Supreme Court decided and solved the case so the audit is requested and now again two and a half years ago this case is in the Supreme Court. Of course, we all expect to end the process together because we suffer from the municipality and county economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166918	I thank my esteemed colleague. We've exhausted all the replicas to the opening explanation of the report. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Government official, would you like to explain your opinion? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear fellow Vice-President of the Assembly of fellow Members Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166919	My colleagues and fellow MPs, Supreme Court President. To begin with, I would like to advise you not to defend yourself with silence, not to find reasons why you will remain silent and to engage in the debate as soon as possible, as soon as you begin to explain yourself, otherwise the impression of someone's guilt will be confirmed. Before the debate on this item of the agenda itself, I will only warn you here and the Croatian public that this debate would not have happened if the opposition hadn't gathered signatures to put this report on the agenda. And that's what he's saying and that today we're discussing 2017 at the end of 2019. The rulings have tried to stretch the debate for a very long time because they are obviously simply not responsible for discussing the state of the judicial authority or consider it all to be good. And I think we should discuss justice more times a year. I think that we should debate especially because you could see the latest days of the impression, the perception of people in Croatia about the Croatian judiciary. And if you don't discuss here with arguments, you might find yourself in other places discussing with much less arguments with much more emotion. And that's what you need to count on. The recent judicial case in Zadar is by no means what time did the public draw attention to the work of the courts. And I'm not going to go into individual cases or this is our topic here today, I'm going to look back at perception, the impression that these decisions are making. This is not the first time that the public is literally stormed into individual judges' decisions in certain cases and that the work of the courts is a major topic for days and weeks in media space. That's what you brought to justice. What is particularly worrying throughout this story are the media advances of judges or judicial officials who are very happy at the moment when the public gets the impression that the fiasco of justice took place very gladly in front of TV cameras, in statements, in interviews, defending this whole story and system. And that's clear to me, they defend their profession, their system, but they always always, always come out with a defensive attitude, and that gives you another negative connotation in the public because it actually says that you have neither, nor a minimum of self-criticism. What you'll get with it is an explosive ambience filled with emotions without any objective, objective judgment. And that's why I think we have to change these things, we have to go into much deeper cuts than what you've imagined, than what you can imagine at all. But unfortunately, your situation isn't very great because, as one, the negative selection didn't go past the justice system, the criteria for the appointment of judges, for the promotion of judges, were fluid. So now our condition is what it is. And best said by just one more-ranking judge the other day when he said, you know, you can replace politicians after four years but you'll name us judges for life. Thank you for that and for such a negative selection that we can endure for life. The second thing, so far there are absolutely no serious shifts, nor do I see any ambitious plans, brave plans that will change something in the system of justice. The government, the Justice Department here last year spoke of a large organisational package of organisational laws to ultimately say it was a mini reform. We could see that the PR government had done a phenomenal job, the headlines were screaming promises, and he was so miserable in himself, so impotent that the government eventually called him a mini reform. And from all that halabuka, we could see that they promised to make property cards available to judges publicly. The laws entered into force on 1 September 2018. Do I need to warn you that today is the end of 2019 and that these, even those property cards, are not public. Yes, we have instructed, just so the Croatian public knows, we have sent a written request to Minister Bošnjakovic to answer us who he is and when he made the decision not to respect the Croatian laws adopted in this House. So let the Croatian public know who has been disobeying the law on purpose for the past year. Furthermore, a problem has emerged with the appointment of judges and presidents of the Greater Criminal Court. Now look at this, last year's amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council provided for a change in the system of appointment of judges from one court to a higher court. What's going on here, they changed the way the judges were evaluated when they were promoted. And look at the wonders, it's unrespectable. The State Judicial Council began by appointing the judges of that same High Criminal Court by applying the rules of the former law, not this law, which has been current for the past year. So now please explain to me the President of the Supreme Court how is it that the cream of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia does not respect the laws passed in the Croatian Parliament? You're the President of the Supreme Court. You have no answer. Tell me what kind of message you're sending to the citizens, is it possible that you're sending a message that it's a fine closed organization that selectively applies laws when it comes to them? And what I finally get is the impression that instead of a transparent judicial system, we've been given an obscenity, a closed organization where there are also elites, where there's more equal than others, where some judges obviously have the right to deal with both politics and court justice games and much less trial. And that's the impression that today's citizens of the Republic of Croatia have, whatever you're saying here, but we don't even need to talk about the impression, the Prime Minister who asked you to be the President of the Supreme Court boasted the other day here by the competitiveness index. Not that you've made progress, you've fallen, you've fallen to the last place in the world, since the 141st world economy you're in 140th place. And it's not an impression, it's not a perception, it's a reality, it's a reference, it's a fact. And that's what the world told you. And what do you discuss? About statistics? Yes, we can talk about statistics, now it will be improved significantly, since the government and the Ministry of Justice have submitted to your demands that, in the event of an audit, you, now the Supreme Court, except in exceptional cases, will no longer interfere. So we finally got that the second degree decisions of county courts don't go into any control that in the end they're de facto the ultimate bodies, that their decisions are inconclusive. What I'm interested in is, will you ultimately analyse their decisions, their practices and ultimately show everyone in Croatia how good it was in the end? I'm really interested in how you're going to explain to people that in a system like us, as far as the justice system is concerned, you've made it possible for there to be absolutely no control, almost no control of second-degree bodies. I'd like to warn you, it is known that citizens in the same building are being processed both on the first-degree and second-degree body of their subject, and now they've lost the opportunity to get their object out of the building at all. You mention in your report the practice of the Supreme Court, even boast that this practice is published entirely without exception and I believe you. But what I'm interested in, is she systematicized in a proper way? Do the Supreme Court's judges at least have the opportunity to find decisions that show key legal considerations of the Supreme Court on certain issues? And that shouldn't be to understand only the right of judges of the Supreme Court, if you boast of transparent public practice, it should absolutely be all lawyers and law firms and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Is that how it's systemized? We hope warmly, we hope warmly. But what you don't need to care about is that you finally put the burden on the back of those who beg to be audited. I'll remind you one more time, we're discussing after two years of reports and that's because the opposition asked for it, not because you were willing to do it. And then I don't need to reproduce the data reports here, I'll finish your impression. The impression is that the Croatian judiciary is slipping towards the farce sphere. I urge you, Mr. Sesa, to step aside and explain it to your colleagues. And we ask nothing more than what is written in the Constitution, and the Constitution says that absolutely every citizen in the Republic of Croatia will have the right to an independent, impartial court that will not be interested in origin, origin, property or anything like that, that's all we're looking for. Can we have that? I want absolutely all Croatian courts, a judicial organisation in the Republic of Croatia to understand what condition they are in, how much they need to do. Move away at one point because you could see that with the highest instance, you brought the Croatian judiciary to you with the highest instance in this country a few days ago the requirement to do justice takes place under the beech tree. If you don't understand, if it's not your time to alarm, then I don't know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166920	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrov. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Marko Šimic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166921	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished state secretaries with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today’s report by the President of the Supreme Court on the state of the judicial authority for 2017 and 2018, which is based on Article 45. Law on courts President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia once a year deliver to the Croatian Assembly. And for the sake of true public information, it should be said that just the report on the state of the judicial authority for 2017 came at the beginning of the year, or closer to the middle of 2018, so for 2017 we couldn't even discuss it. For 2018, the report arrived in mid- 2019. It is even more important, however, to note that the reports following their arrival in the Croatian Parliament are immediately included in the agendas of the committee of directors, i.e. the Committee on Justice, and this committee has been discussed. If we will not take this debate as an important debate in this Croatian Assembly, then we will also degrade all other committees that discuss certain reports. We need to know that by amending the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament has put in place a new rule to discuss the reports on parent committees, only extremely about the reports provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at the plenary session. These reports also include this important and important report by the President of the Supreme Court, but it is important to stress that the report has been discussed in a timely and timely manner on the Croatian Parliament's parent board. In 2017, more precisely in September 2017, we discussed reports for 2015 and 2016, where we concluded in a comparative analysis how and in which direction the situation in the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia is going. The state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia is being dealt with daily by representatives of the Croatian Parliament in their free speeches at each item of the agenda, which referred to any issue in the area of justice and judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, has also been discussed on individual cases. I'll just highlight a few laws when, with some broad debate, we discussed the report of the President of the Supreme Court. In 2018, I will visit we have had a reform of the Croatian judiciary, we have also had a coloquially called write-off of debts that the government of the Republic of Croatia has indeed come to meet citizens especially that group of blocked citizens. In 2019 we also had several minor reforms of the Croatian judiciary but one of the more important things we forgot to stress today that judges are therefore getting paid. In 2013 and 2014, these salaries were reduced by 3% first, later 6%, while the Government of the Republic of Croatia increased the wages by 6% in early 2019. It is good that today this topic is on the agenda of the Parliament session because the perception of the public, let's be honest and is not the best about the Croatian judiciary. I will discuss the perception of the public when I analyse this entire report, I have touched on behalf of the club and that part, and for this it is not only the responsible judicial authority and the judges. All of us politicians contribute to this image of the Croatian judiciary. If we are to discuss this report then it is time to say that the coming of the President of the Supreme Court and this report have taken a different form. It is more summary today, it is more transparent today, it is more structured, it is easier, it is especially easy to monitor both the organisation of the judicial authority and its dynamics of decision making and even one good part and the quality of decisions that have been made. I must say that these reports are exhaustive, that they are well structured and that they give reliable insight into statistics and indicators that are more favourable than they were in the years 2015 and 2016, respectively, reports for that year. The reports are all accompanied by a transparent and graphic display of the current data, the reports in question offer a complete overview of the organisation, the network of courts, analysis of the human potential in courts and data on the efficiency of the work of courts. There is also a demonstration of the movement of performance indicators that easily monitor the efficiency of courts in the observed reporting period. It is important to note that it is not easy and easy to collect therefore all the data for the production of this report, so we see how much it is covered by the sources, and that is, the sources are from the Supreme Court, the State Judicial Council, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the judicial academy, all the high second-degree courts, as well as jump courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. Overall, therefore, during the period during which reforms were systematically implemented at the time and after EU accession, comprehensive reform procedures have been undertaken that have introduced significant newspapers in the normative and institutional sense and the practical functioning of the judicial system itself. The justice system of the Republic of Croatia was burdened with not a small number of pending cases and seriously violated the right of citizens to solve their problems by judicial means. As early as 2005, the priority of full implementation of the judicial system reorganisation was highlighted by the emphasis of the large number of regular and specialised courts at the time and 266. To remind ourselves of the direction of reorganisation of the judicial system, they went in line with the Justice Reform Strategy, the Ministry of Justice in the Republic of Croatia. In the priority direction of territorial reconstruction, therefore, a new map of judicial areas, organisational reconstruction, improvement of the effectiveness of the accompanying services in judicial bodies, redecoration of the appeal process and the information of the entire system. Since 2008, the number of courts has been reduced in the Republic of Croatia and during this reporting period has been 24 municipal, 22 criminal, 8 commercial, 4 administrative, 15 county, High Court of Commerce, High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, High Court of Justice and Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia with 54 permanent services of municipal courts, 66 permanent services of criminal courts and 4 permanent services of county courts. Meanwhile, there has been another reorganisation, intervention in this system and today we have 32 municipal courts but we will talk about it in the 2018 report and the 2019 report, which I am sure will see the full results of all these reforms that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has carried out during this period. Croatia according to the number of judges compared to the number of inhabitants at the very top of Europe, a report on the comparative data on the state of the European judicial systems of the CEPI, a survey of the 40 countries of the Council of Europe shows data on the number of staff in courts showing that the number of judges in the EU is moving from 3 to 4 in Ireland to 41 in Slovenia, while Slovenia has more than us and Slovenia has been mentioned when we adopted the Law of conduct when we were just saying their model is good. And today we're doing a side-by-side analysis of all of each other's data where we see this differentity of the system and actually the inability to compare in just one small part. So in 2017, judicial duties were handled by 1788 persons of which 44% in municipal courts, 22% in county courts and 2% in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia while employees were 8392. In 2018 we see a significant trend in the reduction of employees in courts of about 1%. If we look at the judges' seats and duties, we see that there has been a greater reduction in the number of judges than 1% in certain courts. As far as the structure is concerned, the judges' schedules in view of the courts' branches are the most in municipal courts that have and perhaps the widest jurisdiction. Following are judges of county courts where there were 388 judges in 2017, in 384 in 2018 judges of the criminal court where we see some reduction in the number of judges greater than 1%. It is continued even though we have a reduced number of judges and court employees we welcome the continued trend in reducing the number of pending cases and reducing the length of the court proceedings. Although it concerns the inflow of objects that in a state such as the Republic of Croatia, which has almost 4 million inhabitants, we see that we have an inflow of millions and 250 thousand a year. In the 2018 reporting period, this inflow has been reduced by 6% and amounts to a million and 166 thousand 130 cases, which, according to my personal court, is enough. The analysis of the number of pending cases by courts shows that at the end of 2017 the number of outstanding cases of municipal, commercial, criminal, administrative, county courts, then the High Court of Commerce, the High Court of Justice and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia were reduced compared to the previous year. I purposely listed all these courts for reasons that only increased the number, number of pending cases at the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Even this information doesn't affect the public's perception so much, but it's important to say it because it's really important. As for county courts, a positive trend in solving cases was observed so that at the end of 2017 fewer pending cases were recorded by the judge and the court adviser, the largest share of which was held by civil litigation cases. By considering a more detailed structure of the case, there are types of cases that have a resolution rate below 100% for which the county courts are in charge. This is the case in the case of war crimes cases, first-degree criminal cases, second-degree criminal cases, then criminal extrajudicial councils and investigational cases. We're witnessing that exactly those cases that end in the media are coming from this area of court action. In fact, these are the most difficult cases to solve in courts where we have in our own actions evidence that is not and simply always carried out and where a growing number of people are involved, where the witches from all areas are involved and indeed, and indeed, such procedures require even more time. However, we believe that these items too need to be found, in these cases a solution needs to be found and such items need to be speeded up. In particular, this opinion is based on the appeal of the President of the Supreme Court of Mr Sesse who said that every time a problem arises in the judicial or judicial system, the legislator tries to intervene. Certain interventions have taken place in this area, but they are not so large, significant that they would have a negative impact on the urgency of solving the case. So here's one of the parts in which I will definitely follow this part of the county courts in the next report for 2018, 2019, and hopefully this part of the county courts will be above 100%. The problem of the number of pending cases in Croatian courts remains current because the biggest problem is the accumulated backlogs of unsolved cases from earlier years. We can see that there are also a significant number of old objects that have been handled for more than 10 years. During the period 2018, 29,445, 20,314 were resolved and 9,131 items were pending. These items are also structured, and we can see in which areas of the trial we have the biggest problem, and we should make greater efforts to resolve these cases. I have noted earlier that the increase in pending cases is only recorded by the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. These positive trends of the Croatian judiciary should be highlighted precisely for public perception because we have good trends that have been assessed, evaluated and explored by international institutions that monitor the work of the judiciary, and thus Croatia, we are not at the beginning, we always mix pears and apples, today we said that we are the last in the economy, and we are discussing the subject of the judiciary. It is not necessary to mix pears and apples, it should really be said that Croatia does not have an excellent judiciary and has no excellent trial but every day and every year and all reforms made in this system since 2008 the situation in the Croatian judiciary is being improved daily and we expect that even better and more significant figures will await us in the next report. The HDZ representative club will accept the report for 2017 and 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166922	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic. We move on to the next debate, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, the esteemed colleague Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166923	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. What I have to say from this pay phone right now is that at the moment there is censorship, so none of the media is transferring this debate, I personally think that the debate in the Croatian Parliament on justice is essential for Croatian society, but when we have media associated with this camera that has been ruling Croatia for 20 years and which has made it impossible for Croatia to develop any kind of development, and then on the issue of justice reform, which is crucial, it is simple to expect, to expect that none of the media today will carry this, but here I hope that some of the recordings of this debate will still come out in public. It should be said that the World Economic Forum recently provided information that the Croatian judiciary has taken 120 seats from 140 countries. So we're talking about positioning in view of the independence of the judiciary. Less independent justice in Europe has BiH, Macedonia and Albania. And on the issue of the judiciary, ahead of Finland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg. Croatia is among the worst-rated countries for the effectiveness and perception of the independence of the judiciary in the EU Justice Report published by the EU Commission in 2014. So that's the statistics, that's the data I'm not making up here. As human policy is conducted in the judicial power, you have touched Mr. Sessa's question as well. These are your colleagues' opinions, so these are the opinions of the judges. 43% of respondents believe that in the last 2 years, judges in Croatia have been appointed not on the basis of abilities and experience but on some other basis. So that's the opinion of the judges. 55% of respondents believe that in the last 2 years, judges in Croatia have progressed not on the basis of abilities and experience but on some other basis. The judges themselves have made it clear through this research that when the judges are appointed and the judges are promoted, they are not looking for the best candidates. As far as court practice is concerned, the case-law in the Croatian judicial system is inconsistencies, it is inconsistencies in enormous proportions, so we have the rightful judgments in similar cases which are diametrically contrary and the Supreme Court which should coordinate the case-law in the Republic of Croatia does not do so or if it does, does not seem in a sufficiently efficient and effective way. That's the facts. The Supreme Court has no position at all when it comes to similar cases in which judges are to be tried. So there's no need to wait for all cases to reach the Supreme Court, so you need to set criteria in similar cases to ensure legal certainty for citizens. You are at the Supreme Court according to information that I have buried over 15,000 civil litigation cases and it is a serious number, it is serious quantitative data, but these quantitative data just point to dissatisfaction with lower-level verdicts and such anomalies could be avoided if criteria were set in similar cases. I was asking you, Mr. Sessa, and in that replica, how is it possible that the Constitutional Court says the Consumer Credit Act has retroactive application, and the Supreme Court says no. I don't understand it, so I don't understand how these two, let's say the most judicial institutions in Croatia have the opposite views on certain legal issues. As a parliamentary representative, this points to legal uncertainty, and what the impression of Croatian citizens are getting, that is, that is a question that we will later touch. I don't understand if there are any other categories of lawyers in the Constitutional Court or how do you have no harmonised views, which is the point, I don't understand at all if you have any correspondence? Another argument of the lack of judicial co-operation, the Supreme Court has meetings with the presidents of the county courts, draws conclusions that are published and have weight. But at that meeting, according to my knowledge, there are no representatives of the High Court of Commerce. I'm interested in why it's like that. Why does this happen if the Law on Courts in Art. 27th Prescribed that they should be there? Here, please answer the same question for me. The report also mentions the harmonisation of the law with European law. It is often heard that you encourage judges to the previous questions to the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, since Croatia's entry into the EU to date we have 13 of these previous issues and one of the previous issues was precisely in the case of the law that I have proposed in the HS and which was unanimously voted in the HS, Mr Sessa is familiar with this. It is, in particular, a case conducted in the European Court of Justice under No. C-630/17 relating to the Law on the Vulnerability of the Loan Contract. So, the judge who sends the previous question is in a possible conflict of interest, so the judge who sends the previous question to the European Court is living in the real estate of the creditors in the process, and I don't understand that none of our institutions are going to check these things. It means whether they have these knowledge that I think is controversial or they have no knowledge of, and if they have these knowledge, and they don't, then we have one judicial system in collapse, which is taken over by interesting structures, from the interest structures that have been created for 20 years and let's not be fooled, they are both in HDZ and SDP, and in HDZ and SDP, these interest structures are located and maintain this system that is not based on justice and justice. You said on this occasion that the European Court of Justice ruling is binding on our judges because it is a European law, and we are obliged to implement as an EU member, you said that it has an advantage over domestic law and I can agree with you, however, one thing I am interested in. For what reason should we always bend before European bureaucracy? So you have the same verdict by the European Court of Justice on the matter of Hungary, so hand over Hernady the Republic of Croatia. Is Hungary sticking to the European Court of Justice's verdict? My question to you. Hungary is not holding up, and you realize that we must stick to all these judgments, regardless of whether they are contrary to national interest. How do you from the Supreme Court set yourselves up according to the European Court of Justice? Do you have a character, do you have an attitude, do you have a spine or do you bend aside from European bureaucracy on everything they say? Because if that is the case, and I believe that it is because so far I see that it is so, then in the main responsible functions we have puppets, puppets, and not statesmen because I see that in other countries it does not work that way, I see that Hungary, when it is not in her interest, rejects the European Court's verdict, see that Italy, when it is not in her interest, refuses, I see that Germany and France lobby that such things don't happen, so how can the Republic never ask its spine, here it is, that's my question. In Case C-630/17 Milivojevic, the European Court of Justice says it is competent, and in Case C-277/19, the European Court has declared itself not competent. So, I'm interested now, it's about two of the same objects, and it's about the problem of RBA cooperatives, and we know that, that the RBA worked here illegally on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and that's not questionable to anyone, so HS is for that very reason and passed the law. Therefore, it is not clear to me now, we have the uncoordinated and this case-law of the European Court of Justice, which means whether you from the Supreme Court have some initiative to ask the European Court of Justice a question of the problems of the RBA cooperative because, as I said, I do not know if you listened to me, means in one case at the European Court, the European Court has declared itself competent, and in another case the same believer Raiffeisen Sankt Stefan has declared himself incompetent, means I am interested in what position you have in the Supreme Court, which means whether you will take what you do on this issue because again, judges in the Croatian legal system do not know how to place yourself according to those judgments because they do not have a fit quarterback of you. Furthermore, the Supreme Court of 15.6.2018. It concludes that all the tasks should be postponed if they are cases with an unauthorized credential from the Article. 2. The law on the integrity of the credit agreement. Today, after the European Court of Justice's ruling, some judges do not wish to stick to your conclusion, although the European Court did not refer to the article at all. 6th of that law, which defines the delay of enforcement in those cases. So, some judges don't respect the Supreme Court's conclusion and if you don't have that knowledge I can send you in writing, but you would certainly like to look back at it because a large number of citizens are reporting such information, sending me judgments and asking me how this is possible, how is this, if this is normal, means that the Supreme Court is saying one thing, and the situation on the ground and the judges are doing another. So we have anarchy in the judicial system, anarchy in the judicial system, and who's responsible for this, Mr. Sess? You are the President of the Supreme Court, who is responsible for the fact that the Croatian judiciary does not function in quality? Is this the Supreme Court, given by the Constitutional Court, given by the Croatian Government, but tell us specifically who will take responsibility for the inefficient functioning of the Croatian judiciary? As regards this State Judicial Council, DSV in 2017. A total of 9 decisions were taken, of which 5 proceedings were suspended, in 3 judges were fined, and in one judge was relieved of judicial duties. The most common penalty imposed on judges in the strict procedure is a fine, very rarely the DSV reaches a measure of discharge from duty. The authorised applicants for a tight procedure are just the presidents of the courts, and then I wonder how we can expect at all a number of tighter procedures when, when these tighter procedures, mean they are submitted to the DSV presidents of the courts, and if there are interesting structures in the courts, these interesting structures are unquestionably connected with the presidents of the courts, so it can't, the interest structure can't function without the knowledge of the President of the Court, it's non-sens, so the President of the Court knows it and he's involved and he himself is involved whether directly or indirectly in that story and therefore we have one of the worst justices in the EU, and the DSV that some penalties such as fines and what message do you send to these judges? It means that corruption is worth it, that belonging to certain interest structures is good, positive when there are no sanctions, here. I'll make another point in an individual discussion, thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166924	Thank you, dear fellow Schibol. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166925	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, should at first say that today's report by the President of the Supreme Court on the state of the judicial authority for 2017 and 2018 is an opportunity to remind us of the disastrous situation in the judiciary, but also the opportunity to offer a solution. Who feels the most injustice because of unequal court practice? Citizens. Who suffers most because of lengthy court proceedings? Also citizens. Who feels the greatest injustice because of the inadequate conduct of judges who are placed outside the law? Citizens. Do you think citizens feel comfortable when they see the influence of individuals from the government and HDZ on some judges? Citizens feel injustice at every turn, but the greatest injustice they feel is when they see that the laws in this country don't apply equally to everyone. That rapists are free, that there is no punishment for thieves, that powerful and corrupt politicians have been avoiding the hand of justice for years. All examples of world practice, all data on this subject show that the poor and inefficient judiciary is directly related to a large number of corrupt activities in the country concerned. In other words, the most corrupt are those countries that have the worst judiciary. Big corruption on the one hand and bad justice on the other hand goes hand in hand together. And just as you are today deliberately pushing this debate on the state of justice into the corner of the night to try the situation in the judiciary and the judicial authorities, all the problems that the Croatian judiciary has to hide from the eyes of the citizens. Because of corruption many young people in Croatia have stolen the future, and older dignity, it eats up Croatian society. And as people who love this country, we cannot bear to see Croatia grow in the perception of corruption, while sinking to the bottom of the competitiveness list. Corruption is, with no confidence in institutions, administrative ineffectiveness and lack of reforms, the reason why people leave our country and can no longer suffer this injustice that is overrun by all the spheres of our society. I can't watch this mess anymore. Corruption systematically destroys Croatian society, reduces the chances of our society for success, people live worse because of it, investments in Croatia are never less, and people are emigrating because they see that those who should protect them, such as DORH, actually close their eyes to thieving. Because of corruption, many of our citizens have low wages, pensioners live in misery, young and educated do not see their future in Croatia, and I am convinced that it was not in so much scope that citizens today live much better. It is an obstacle to the development of our country and the reason for social, economic and political setbacks. She's ruining power, and bad government is the cornerstone of corruption. The government in Croatia should not be corrupt, but it is quite the opposite because this summer is due to the very suspicion of this corruption that half the current government must go away. It benefits only powerful ones, and the damages of all others, but most suffer the poor and suffer the most those who maintain order and remain honest. When perpetrators are processed, which is unfortunately very rare, these processes take a long time, often without results and it actually destroyed the faith of citizens in institutions. Independent control and anti-corruption institutions have been systematically destroyed since their creation. The DORH in Croatia as if it does not exist, USKOK is dead, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is under constant pressure, and the situation in the judiciary has never been worse. We are witnessing never a larger number of affairs, citizens can't watch the trials against tycoons and corrupt politicians fall into obscenity because of individual judges. Citizens can't watch corrupt politicians get away with criminal responsibility even though they're guilty. Citizens can no longer watch abusers and murderers receive inadequate sentences. Citizens can no longer watch child rapists walk free without any sanctions. Powerful suspects avoid the Croatian judiciary and pass without precaution and detention measures and flee to neighbouring BiH to avoid the hand of justice, and the Supreme Court is silent, and the scandals in the judiciary are lower, one after the other. On the other hand, citizens have long-standing court proceedings that last even for decades, which is absurd because we belong as a country with the highest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants, imagine the absurdity. The phrase that the laws are good on paper but are not implemented is a lie because a law that does not achieve goals that are deliberately bypassed by the very ones who bring them is a fraud. Many things have been said and done on paper, but be silent about the consequences and the effect. At the same time, there is the impression that individual judges are above the law. They believe that some judges above the law are also contributions by Judge Turudic, who represents a judicial profession in essence. It's known to the public that he was running away, he was known not to receive subpoenas, easily holding that he was above the law. What happened is causing citizens' anger because he doesn't have to raise a subpoena, while on the other hand citizens have to raise a subpoena, he doesn't have to answer for overspeed, on the other hand, citizens have to be responsible for speeding. It is clear that in his defense he used exactly the holes in the law to free himself of the apparent guilt, and that he had cast aside the judicial profession, but later the judges themselves left the mark and made the profession even more hated because the DSV did not initiate a strict procedure and the association of judges did not initiate the infringement of the ethical code but was also defended by the President of the Supreme Court who must have done so under political duty because we are all aware that these are all judges who have set up the HDZ exactly. On the proposal of the president of the state, Kolinda Kitarovic, the ruling majority headed by the HDZ is elected by the Supreme Court president. Obviously, one rule applies to citizens and other rules apply to HDZ listeners and officials. And in Croatia everything is so ruined including the judiciary that we need a new start. And that is why the SDP proposes a root, never greater reform of the judiciary as a basic prerequisite for a successful fight against corruption. The judiciary must be more effective, courts organised, court practice uniformly. The right must be the same for everyone. The judiciary must be in the service of the law and not above the law and must be in the service of citizens and not above citizens because citizens seek faster justice, less costs and commitment to work. And in order to restore the faith of the people of Croatia, we must first of all restore the faith of the people of the institutions. Croatia needs to be trusted. Order and trust are the preconditions of our country's growth, success and development. And in Croatia, there must be no injustice due to unequal court practice. We must return faith to the judiciary and make the judiciary faster and more efficient but completely independent of any form or attempt of political or any other pressure. Independence does not mean I have no responsibility, however, we will insist on a much stronger and greater responsibility to the justice system. The measures which may affect the judiciary and restore trust in the judiciary are systematic control of the property of judges and members of their families by the special department of USKOK or other specially established body, the modification of the composition of DSV in such a way that most members make up prominent members of the academic community, allow access to the public to the results of testing and oral testing in competitions with the amendment of the Personal Data Protection Act. All interviews shall be recorded and stored as well as tests, and shall enable the anti-candidate to grow in the light of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, to automate the cases of judges, or to make them completely independent of the arbitration will of the President of the Court, to strengthen the responsibilities of courts for an unlawful trial, to bring an illegal judgment in cases where it can be established that the judge has made a decision clearly contrary to the law. In that case, establish a sanction or at least establish the disciplinary responsibility of the judge if he adopts such a judgment. All cases and files in cases shall be made readily available and searched on the Internet by full introduction of the e-Court with the application of the Personal Data Protection Act. To maximise the concentration of proceedings in criminal and litigation proceedings as set out in the common law systems. Punishment of behaviours that courts assess as abuse of procedural rights, prescribing to cognitive provisions. Introduce and ensure the possibility that courts, in case of suspicion of false representation of the health status of the defendant or of the authority to which we witness in Croatia very often, have the possibility of emergency medical skill. Introducing a legal obligation that, if a defence attorney is changed and not hired a prepared defender for the same debate, it is not funny for a HDZ colleague to be determined by a defence attorney who remains until the end of the proceedings. In the event of receipt of bribes, the imposition of a legal obligation to release the briber of criminal liability if the recipients are declared and to have the right to repay the amount of cash or objects he has given as a bribe precisely in order to enable the fight against corruption. After the release, a rapist in Zadar and the affair of Judge Turudic, the latest affair due to an outdated trial against Kutla, is just another one in a number of cases of disaster that bring down trust in the empty state. It is a frightening fact that there has never been more violence in the country, never more crime and never more corruption and that at the same time the judiciary is not working because of affairs. And that is why the SDP will insist on a deep reform of the judiciary that must be independent and in the service of citizens rather than in the service of corrupt politicians. We want the same law for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166926	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA, respected counterpart Goran Aleksic will share the debate with counterpart Žagar, please welcome colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166927	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Judge Sesa, State Secretary, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. You'll all fire in court and I won't. I will talk about what has happened in the last 2 years until this year, so 2017 and 2018, some of the things that have happened, that have passed someone under the radar and are very important for Croatian society and have shown that the Croatian judiciary is up to the task. I'll talk about it. So let's take the turn. On 3 October 2017, the judgment of the High Court of Commerce, 7129/13, was abolished in that part concerning the currency of the clause and concerning the unfair provisions relating to Sberbank or Volksbank. It's about the Franak case. It was a revision of 575/16, that revision was repeated at the request of the Constitutional Court who accepted the constitutional suit of the consumer association, in fact, it was the Franak association, although the consumer association had legitimacy for the lawsuit, so she had to write everything, but Franak was the one who ran it all. Therefore, on the basis of the constitutional action accepted, on the basis of the request of the Constitutional Court, it was necessary in the Supreme Court or better to explain their first judgment, their first decision by revision or revision of the audit. And the Supreme Court has decided to amend its audit, to abolish the High Court's verdict and return the proceedings to the High Commercial Court. Afterwards, we waited until 14 June 2018 for the decision of the High Court of Commerce and the High Court of Commerce on the basis of the re-trial procedure, Pž-6632/17, that all the defendants in the case of Franak had agreed on the unfair currency clause CHF, that Sberbank had negotiated an unfair interest rate because it was first said that everything was fine and thus the way was open for the claims of consumers that negotiated loans with the CHF currency clause and the variable interest rate that was changed by the decision of the Bank. Meanwhile, before that it was a conversion, so there was a problem if people who converted loans had the right to sue banks, and since these people were the most aware of the whole Franak case, these are people with housing loans, the lawsuit was very little at first. By the end of 2018, I think a total of about 5,000 lawsuits have been filed for the return of overpaid amounts on the basis of a collective ruling in the Franak case, although we have worked hard from Franak and I here through parliamentary discussions to inform the public, inform consumers about their rights, yet consumers have come to court in a very small number. And what we've been waiting for now is next. We were waiting for the Supreme Court to decide whether consumers who converted CHF loans had a legal interest in suing banks. This legal interest has also been established by revision 2868/18. The audit found that the conversion of CHF to credit by consumers was not able to convaliscate the zero contractual provisions, that the conversion was neither renewed nor renewed and that, in short, the unfair and therefore in no way could be replaced by other contractual provisions and that consumers who converted their loans under the law, i.e. The law on conversion has a legal interest in establishing its rights. This is not the final decision on converted loans, the Supreme Court will have to decide on converted loans once again because this decision, which has been taken, speaks only of consumers having a legal interest in determining their rights, but that decision does not speak about what specific rights they are in terms of, in one material sense. What do these consumers who converted loans have the right to gain? I mean, math is pretty clear. We got reduced principals by conversion, but we got neither overpaid interest, nor overpaid exchange rate, nor we got the corresponding tight interest rate, but we'll see how the Supreme Court decides because that audit is still waiting for him. What will be the revision, on which point, I can't know now, whether it's going to be after a review procedure which, today, was published on the Supreme Court's pages, a review procedure has been launched in connection with the conversions, has not actually been launched, I apologize, there's just been a request to initiate. It will be launched or will not be launched within 15 days of that publication of the request and from the moment when requests have been sent to the municipal courts to declare whether they have cases with converted loans in their proceedings. The next important decision of the Supreme Court, a very important decision, has recently been made, it does not fall under these reports, but I must mention it, it is a decision on the audits made by the banks to the Supreme Court because of this previous decision by the High Court of Commerce, that is the revision 2221/18, that revision was finally, I would say, completed by the collective case Franak. The ordinary court procedure has been fully completed and the Supreme Court has found that Judge Radovan Dobrinić's verdict is fully correct. It is finally fully applicable to us, there are no more questions for it to come down today, tomorrow. Of course, the banks will go to the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court is another story, we will not interfere with the judicial authority because the Constitutional Court is not part of the judicial authority. The next important decision taken by the Supreme Court was a decision after revision 1172/18. Why was that decision important? The banks argued in the proceedings against them because of the Franak case, they argued that they had implemented their legal obligation by defining the parameters, defining the fixed part of the interest rate during 2013 and then sending a notice to consumers who had already agreed on loans about how they defined the parameters and the fixed part of the interest rate. In time, we launched a whole series of misdemeanor proceedings that unfortunately fell into obsolescence, and there was the possibility that banks could be punished by hundreds of thousands of kuna for every such offence. Unfortunately, the Criminal Court and the High Violent Court, the criminal courts and the High Violent Court, have completely failed their exam. Instead of bringing the state huge money into the budget, they allowed a large part of these misdemeanor proceedings to go out of date. And I'm very sorry that the state has failed to make use of us who have initiated these misdemeanours one big, big money. I'm so sorry it turned out that way, but unfortunately that's how it turned out. And later, when these proceedings went to an age-old Supreme Court, he made a decision after this revision of 1172/18 and said exactly what we argued in the infringement proceedings that banks had to negotiate those parameters in order to make it legal. If it wasn't legal for the bank to set those parameters itself, send the mail notice and now she says I did it by law. No, such a way of determining the parameters is not legal, and that is how the Supreme Court found the illegal audit that I have just mentioned. And finally, one of the most important audits is also an audit of 2245/17 of 20 March 2018, which found that the collective lawsuit suspended the limitation of claims by private court proceedings and the Franak case and that the collective verdict began to start over. So much for now, I leave the word to my colleague, Sagar, and I will continue what I wanted to say in an individual debate. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166928	Thank you, colleague Alexic. Comrade Sagar, continue the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166929	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sess. Here is something 130 years after Kocic wrote his satirical drama Badger in front of the court, it somehow seems to me that it would be relevant to bring the badger before the court again to point out the problem in the Croatian judiciary. The truth is, it wasn't, the recent event wasn't a badger, it was a Bear dog, but the point is similar. I will, in this brief final time that remains to be presented on behalf of the club, refer to one key word that seems to me in this report, which was called upon by the rapporteur himself, which is the independence of the judiciary, which is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But what must not be forgotten, the judicial authority must be independent but not from the citizens, the judicial authority must not be independent of the citizens, it must be independent of those who have any political power, any financial power and ultimately must be independent of the fact that judges cannot do their job because of their bribery. So here it is mentioned that the salaries of judges have been increased. And it really raises the question of what's going on in the Republic of Croatia. The previous speakers are rightly highlighted here, we have the largest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants in the EU. On the other hand, we have the lowest perception of the citizens about the independence of the judiciary. So in just 3 years from 2016 to 2019, the citizens who consider independence as good or very good have fallen from 28% to 18% of the population. The percentage of EU citizens is from 52 to 56, even increased to 56%. So what happens then with the Croatian judiciary and the general trial in Croatia. Is it education or expertise? We could categorically refuse that right away. It's not. We have educated and professional people in the Republic of Croatia. So why don't we have a fair and fair trial, an effective and economic trial, which is why it's happening? We've got enough resources, too. So this data says we have enough judges. We are in the report, most of the time it comes down to trying to point out that the number of pending cases has been reduced and that the length of the procedure has been reduced. Maybe that's where the trap is. It's not that it needs to be reduced, that it's crucial, it's about the next one. Indeed, the President of the Supreme Court needs to disable all those who put real pressure on the judiciary. Not here like you, you've called on article 45 rightly but it's not, that pressure isn't going public, it's going somewhere in the background, that pressure is more visible. But what do citizens see? Citizens see or feel injustice in their own actions and judgments, citizens see individual judgments falling short of that message that the verdict should actually bear or punish. Why is punishment even given? So first, to condemn a crime, someone did it, especially to the harm, to the harm of public property or other people's lives or other people's health. Another thing, to tell others that they no longer do so in terms of prevention. And I need a thing that may seem most important to me and I'm going to paraphrase one philosopher, not determines the position of judges in the society of their verdicts, but their judgments determine their positions in society, and then there are two things, which is a perception that is negative to these studies and which then points to corruption. And what can we conclude? That in the Republic of Croatia we have a judiciary that is subject to corruption. How else do you figure that out if perception is so negative? No, I'm not. I can't help but get the impression that citizens are misjudged. And what, I mean, when we look into history, and what verdict has given citizens confidence? Let's take the conversion and the privatisation, which is the verdict? I think he's a colleague of Bernardic's who mentioned going into obsolescence and on the last case. And what I resent in this report. There is no record of how much action has gone into obsolescence when it comes to actions against those who have political and financial power. And on the other hand, how accelerated are the proceedings at the moment when they are, when they sue others. That's, say, that would be interesting data to see. In an individual debate, I will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166930	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, respected counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166931	The Honorable Vice President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, fellow Members and colleagues, and I will say in the introduction that I already seem to have the 6th or 7th order that I speak on behalf of the club, that I expected the debate to go a little differently or that, that we will not share in this assembly as a legislative authority, as a representative home, that those who are in a position in relation to those who are in opposition or that the position will take place in a way that tries to justify everything in this report, and the opposition in some way are criticising and attacking a good part of the data that is in this report, but that we will exactly reverse and one of the others, meaning that the position and opposition are actually being provided, the possibility that we are talking in this HS or that we listen to a good part of the law, and that we are rightful people in their own way, and that the fact is important to the fact that the fact that the fact is true of the fact that the fact that, the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that, the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact is that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact is true of the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the There's good data in this report, there's data that says that we moved something from where we were compared to what was bad a year or two ago, we hope that this will continue to go in the following reports, that we'll have even better indicators. But what we're unhappy with, my club, the GLAS Club is that this bad situation, which is objectively bad, is compared to some even worse situation in previous periods, and is trying to stress it as a big, underline it as some big success. However, it is not a great success, we are now a member of the EU, we, our goals are much higher, our flight has been raised much more and what we must compare ourselves with are our neighbours, or people with whom, or countries with which we are in EU membership and their standards and their averages, when you compare it, and yet there is someone who compares it then our results are poor and the message should go in the direction that this should change, not in a manner that neither is legislative nor even less executive authority, loops in the work of the judiciary, to carry out political pressure or I don't know blackmail or anything else, but in the sense of the message, and in the sense of communication as I have just said in a way that the laws are proposed by the profession towards this home in order to improve the entire system of course through, through the Justice Ministry, and that it would be a real dialogue between a better period between the court and the latter. As a club, we suggested that one of the key things that would help the situation in the judiciary be improved, and on several occasions in, in this higher home, it was discussed that judges are adequately valued or that the system is as such, to accept that there are differences, means that all judges are not the same, that their work is not equally quality and that the award system and in some way sanctioning or punishing, to encourage this system, to encourage a better quality, better work, better work of the judiciary. Even in the procedure, we have given the laws that would change, but here we have not yet had the opportunity or executive power, the government has no good opinion about it and nothing has been removed from that point of view, and we believe that it is more than urgent to start doing something in this direction, here are the final examples that speak in what way judges behave and what they do, saying that the judiciary is not in, that, that the judiciary does not send a good message and that people, our citizens have increasingly less confidence in both courts and in politics and ultimately and in the state, which cannot possibly result in what we expect, which is that the state is moving forward or to make some progress. The whole series of data is that it does not work well, it may not be likable and the data to be presented but Croatia is the worst in the number of pending cases, although it decreases from year to year. Data are available in the EU for 22 Member States, not all of them, obviously some have additional problems, including facts that do not even provide data. So EU Justice Scoreboard has presented these data for 22 EU members in 2019, which makes Croatia the worst in the number of pending cases. Then there is no online information available in Croatia about the justice system, insufficient education of judges, insufficient information on the right to legal aid, insufficient online forms for citizens and companies, not to talk about information adapted to impaired persons and disabled persons, hearing impaired, hearing impaired people, targeted information for children etc., etc. So according to the standards of information on the state of the case, Croatia is 22nd place. If there are only 22 members who give the data at all, we are the last. We're 17th on-line on the availability of published verdicts. The budget costs for courts are very high, our budget costs according to these reports are over a billion, i.e. a billion and 200 million kuna, which is one of the largest by number if we establish them in relation to the number of residents living in the Republic of Croatia and in relation to other EU members, are the largest financial costs. According to the number of judges involved in continued education, we are the 17th place of the 22nd country. After the availability of the education of judges to strengthen awareness of false news and campaigns, the treatment of victims of sexual violence, asylum seekers, children, and people with poorer vision and impaired hearing Croatia is among the three worst EU members. According to public perception of the independence of the judiciary, Croatia is the worst in the EU. There is a survey where judges were conducted, so the Croatian judges carried out research that also says that the results of the 2017 European Network of Judges survey say, 43% of our judges believe that judges are not named on the basis of abilities and experience but other criteria. Otherwise, in the EU, the average is 25%, so almost, or double, more judges in our country think that the criteria for progress are some other than those that should be, which means they according to expertise and success. So the judges themselves don't think the situation in the judiciary is good. It's not something we make up, it's us here from the opposition, and you're defending it from the position, and it's most disappointing that we're not able to rise up or talk openly and honestly and compare ourselves to what we'd like to be and not what was out there 6 or 7 or 12 months ago. That's my favorite thing when we like to compare ourselves to some of our neighbors who are unfortunately in a much worse situation than we are to both economic and each other, and then we glorify ourselves by comparing ourselves with them. Let us compare ourselves with the better and set our goals high and thus measure the results. In this, we must be unique, in this respect, especially as regards the judiciary, we should communicate more and help each other more. Most of us here are no experts on the judiciary, but we have people who deal professionally with how it should work and how it would be good to function. The courts themselves, the judges themselves should propose it among other things, and we here in the Croatian Parliament should discuss and pass laws that will make everything work much better. However, as in many other things in Croatia, there is no political will to do so and that is our main problem. Until we break this problem one day, I'm afraid this kind of debate will be quite unnecessary and will only entertain our citizens by following us through the media and arguing with each other on portals on various forums. I wish it were different, I would like one of the authorities that is in some future period to understand that Croatia's improvement without solving these problems will unfortunately not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166932	I thank my colleague Turina-Djuric. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Stevo Culej, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166933	The Honorable Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, Đuro Sessa. There it is in the autumn, the anniversary of the fall of Vukovar is coming to us, and the days are coming when we will remember again all those who have installed their lives in independent Croatia. We will remember them not only by their mightiness but also by the injustice which was done to them and those who remained behind them. I will not talk about war profit, act, inaction of judges, cancer of the early Croatian society to the Croatian judiciary, the command responsibility of the representatives of courts and others, but I will translate it into one story. In one life story, a simple, little man who's given himself the right to try to make a difference in the whole story, but he's having a hard time doing it. I'm holding in my hand the 58th criminal report I'm going to file next Wednesday. After that comes 60. It is 59th against Marko Crevar for the murder of two Croatian defenders in Vukovar, and in 60th, it is in absentia against Milutin Todosivic of Serbia. Why am I saying that? 60 criminal charges for war crimes committed against Croatian citizens, non-Serbs in Croatia, and from now on only one incarcerated person has been reduced to 3.5 years because of the old sick mother and the difficult financial situation. To explain the whole story to you, and not to be dreary, but to have something nice in it, I will present it to you in my own way. The Serbian trumpet honks from that village of Borov, a battle cry, a battle song from a village located in eastern Slavonia near Vukovar. The story goes like this. A battle in which a Serb weapon flashed after nearly 50 years in the sky. The Chetnik volunteer squad leaned on the sky to the winner's throne in history into a song to be broadcast to Serbians through time and centuries, throughout all Serbian countries to the Serbian end. After the battle, Miladin Todosijević was decorated with a major act by a Chetnik warrior, commander of the Voluntary Department as a rock from Jelica, which covered his house in Trnava. Imagine you poets, 60th Penalty Report. Why does this matter? Why Milutin Todosijevic and his light weapons are important in war crimes in Croatia. Because this same Milutin Todosijević, when he came with light weapons from Serbia, came to Croatia to protect his Serbian people, which came to a village in Borovo Selo in eastern Slavonia, and you know who he answered and made available to? Yourself, your Chetnik squad and your light weapons to Radenko Alavani. Who was Radenko Alavanja? Who is, in fact, because he is still alive, his predecessor also died by the waves of the Danube. Radenko Alavanja is the commander of the 4m territorial defence headquarters Borov Sela, who replaced the deceased Vukasin Šuščanin, whose obelisk, monument, a 4m-long mausoleum, is located in Borovo Selo, where the Cyrillic writes that he is a hero on Serbian soil, but is in our country, Croatia. He's a hero. Why? So because he was a predecessor, he was a teacher of Radenko Alavanja, he taught Radenko Alaju everything Radenko Alavah later applied in his work for his Serbian brothers. As Milutin Todosijević, Chetnik colonel puts Radenko Alavanji at his disposal, they work together in Borovo Sela and do what they do, I will come to that later. But now, he says, Radenko Alava is not guilty of war crimes. The Supreme Court confirmed the release of the war crimes verdict in Borovo Sela in '91. Mr. Not guilty of war crimes against the civilian population in Borovo Selo, the Supreme Court's verdict, which says, rejects the State's attorney's appeal as unfounded and confirms a completely inadmissible verdict of the Court Council for War Crimes of the Osijek County Court of March 2016. The indictment charges Radenka Alavaa with the authorities of the territorial defence of Borov Sela, where a number of civilians were brought to the building of Bozidar Maslaric's primary school from 18 to 22 November 1991. He did nothing to prevent torture, psychological and physical abuse, to lead to interrogation, and then to murder civilians. He was accused of being so responsible for the deaths of two people abused in Borovo Selo who were then killed in the Far Sea and 15 other civilians killed in the school itself on the Danube coast. He was also accused of the disappearance of 21 persons taken in an unknown direction after school abuse and physically and psychological abuse of 31 others. Alvania was tried in absentia since '96. Mr. found it in Serbia. Let us remind, in light of the inadequacy of the court council president Zvonko Vrban's verdict, that a terrible war crime against civilians was committed in Borovo Sel, but that Radenko Alanje's command responsibility was not proven or established. The basis for the verdict was found in evidence of the state's attorney's office obtained from the Ovčar Hague Court, i.e. an expert team report on military analyses of the operations group of the South, the SFRJ Armed Forces in action in Slavonia and Baranja and Western Srem, from which it is apparent that T.O. was subordinated... I happen to own one of the same documents from the Hague tribunal from the same service that wrote a report on the basis of which Radenko Alava was released from command responsibility but in this second case, the Security Authority of the first military area where the same service is saying that they could not command the commanders of the headquarters of the territorial defence and the criminals who acted through them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this paper's loaded and it's the same and it's released, what's all that for? If she could not have been found for Radenko Alava, none of the difficult circumstances throughout the 83 people killed in Borovo Selo, at least for those killed within the period of 7 months. '91. until 9 months. '91. We have three people killed, five brought to Borovo Selo from Serbia, 43 after the fall of Vukovar and 12 officers not to speak. Therefore, it is not the Supreme Court that respects any sacrifice nor the cry of the family that this same Radenko Alavana, that he should judge and judge him in absentia for what he did for Milutin Todosijevic and his like. Not to say that in his day Martina Štefancic was killed along with her grandmother. We freed Radenko Alawana. So we can write him a song, and Milutin Todosiovic, on his way to Borovo Selo on 18.11., to the fall of Vukovar, so that he may bring the candle to light for the monks and on the coast of the Danube, and throw with a council representative a crown in the Danube, that he may remember his own, and those they have killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166934	Thank you, dear colleague Culey, we have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166935	Thank you very much. Col. Culej, the Supreme Court means the most serious crimes, did not find the elements to be confirmed or to be annulled for the greatest crimes committed in the Borov area, Vukovar and so on throughout the Republic, of course there was a command responsibility, but if the policy was to implement Vladimir Seks, who today has influence, Mr. Culej, and the HDZ and ruling majority that he put together, and his point was "to locate, to arrest, to transfer, to process" Croatian generals. If the funds had been invested in the processing of war crimes of great Serb aggression, you believe that this would have been settled long ago. But those who are the heads of the form of Vladimir Seks, he manages both the judiciary and the godfather's connections and included, they located, transferred the most prominent generals of Croatia and sent them to The Hague. And that's a shame, that's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166936	My friend Bulj, thank you. Answer, dear colleague Culey, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166937	Not that you're right, pal Bull, but you're fat right. On one of my representative questions about a prosecutor, I ended up at DORH, in a conversation, just asking about his participation in JNS units as a volunteer in '91. On that same Vukovar, I'm still possible in the process, and I don't know myself, but you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166938	Thank you, colleague Culey, for your reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Lovrinovic, is not present, dear colleague Branko Bačić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable President of the Supreme Court of Mr. Sess, I have listened carefully to your presentation, which in the most part depicted the data on the work of Croatia or the judicial authority in Croatia and by reading, listening, reading your report and the cases of your presentation, the data on the state of the judicial authority in Croatia are good. Namely, I have never followed the Croatian judiciary for a long time... Most of this part of the judicial authority that you are in charge of, there have never been fewer unsolved cases, today there are about 400,000 unsolved cases in Croatia, not so long ago there have been over 800,000 unsolved cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There has therefore never been more resolved and less unsolved in Croatia. Your report shows that there is a reduction in the time limit for each case, almost all levels of the judicial authority. I have long followed the judiciary and I believe that in the process of joining the EU, Croatia has implemented important reforms in the Croatian judiciary, and on the choice of judges, on the way they were appointed, on the reform of the last, we have called it the mini reforms of the judiciary, the merger of criminal and municipal courts, you have even said something in your final word about the need to merge more municipal and criminal courts, it seems to me in Split and Zagreb, so continue this reform. The reform on the establishment of the High Criminal Court is not completed even though it was launched in 2011, the High Criminal Court was due to begin its work on 1 January 2015, and is now prolonged to 2020, and you stated this in your closing statement. So from all of this, it would be concluded that the Croatian judiciary is doing well. But I believe you, too, like me and us MPs, are aware that the perception in the Croatian public that the Croatian judiciary is not good and that assessment is not one... For example for the Croatian Parliament, neither is the Croatian Parliament in public better than you nor are you better than us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is one general assessment in Croatian society that state institutions and this is the highest state institution which is the representative body of citizens, the most legislative body of the Croatian Parliament has very bad grades but you as a judicial authority, but the whole judiciary is not good either. We talk about our work best every day because our voters, Croatian citizens, can constantly observe how and how we work and better grades, especially we do not deserve it. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I'd be interested in your view of it. So on the one hand, the indicators are good, the number of objects is reduced from day to day, and it's more quickly solved. In particular, this amendment under which the competent secondary authorities are no longer territorially competent but is deployed throughout Croatia in order to speed up the second-degree trial has won a number of things. But it seems to me that in certain cases which are visible in public, which the media recognise, that often on these cases, whether justified or not, the reputation and assessment of the work of the Croatian judiciary falls. Often, the media, citizens, and we politicians, especially here in the Croatian Parliament, are easily assessing the work of a particular judge, we easily assess the work of a particular judge, not knowing until the end of the facts, not knowing what this proof process is, we are providing infrastructure to all who are then counting with the Croatian judiciary. And unlike many others in the judiciary, there is the possibility of appeal, the possibility of correction. Doesn't mean the first-degree verdict is final. Therefore, if the Croatian judiciary in the initial procedure, the first step is wrong, there is also a second step of procedure and revision, and even protection at the Constitutional Court, constitutional rights for individual citizens, therefore there is the possibility of the correction, it is still very important that the Croatian judicial authority reacts in this first step because this first step, this first step, is making a picture of the Croatian judicial authority, the first judge, the first one who reacts immediately after the criminal application, after the crime took place, he creates a picture of the Croatian judiciary. And there is, in my opinion, the responsibility of both the Supreme Court and the second-degree court that in such situations when there is obviously a certain breach of the procedure, reacts quickly so that, in order to correct, I would say that one impression of the Croatian judiciary because the justice which is slow in a certain way is not the justice that citizens expect but the rapid realization, the quick correction, the rapid reaction would be very good. Therefore, I am interested in this part of the position of you as President of the Supreme Court, otherwise the Supreme Court, on this position of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, where on the one hand, the indicators you speak of are good and on the other hand, this perception is bad. Or perhaps such an assessment of the work of the judicial authority is to blame the executive or legislative authority. As far as I am, I'm following, and I'm pretty much following everything that's going on here and here and in the doomsday part of you in your conclusion as the first man of the judicial authority in Croatia, you've made a few recommendations that I think are acceptable. They are not, in my opinion, such a nature that they will change the work of the judicial authority in a significant, significant way. The measures you have said relate to the establishment of a High Criminal Court before us, to the merger of two existing infringements of the municipal court in Zagreb and Split, to equalise the salaries of all judges who judge in secondary proceedings, to exclude higher remuneration of those judges who only participate as members of the council and so on in jumping cases, to pass a law on judicial delivery and to rationalise the rights of parties to investment in legal medicines. So I think this is, this is one of your proposals that the Minister of Justice would by me read about how I should accept it, the more it comes from the highest instance of the judicial authority in Croatia. Do you think that after that, the perception created about the judicial authority will change significantly? Today we're talking about you, we're talking about the judgmental authority. While I'm telling you this, we're not even here in this representative body in the Croatian Parliament anything too priced in Croatian society. Therefore, this task of changing this one attitude towards these very important segments of democratic rule of law should be corrected jointly. Therefore, I personally support what the Croatian judiciary is doing, it is a mirror of the state of society. We, I think the people also have the power they deserve, as they say, we also have the judicial authority that we deserve. So I'm not one of those critics just to criticize, I'm not one of those who attacks the jurisdiction over one case, I never get in, I never get in, I never get in the assessment of the work of the judiciary in one case, especially if I don't know what the facts are and what kind of evidence. I'm liberal, or I'm trying never to evaluate it, but perception is very important to all of us who are in this business. Well, here's me, and I'll end up interested, and it's interested in your position to see if such perception can be solved by this proposal of measures that you have proposed or much more to be done to raise awareness of the work of the judicial authority in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166940	Thank you. We have a replica. Dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166941	Thank you very much. It is true that whoever wanted to read the report of the President of the Supreme Court and for 2017 and for 2018 could actually see about the work of regular courts and specialised courts and exactly cyclically look at the years and cases of both civil and criminal and executive and land-booking and that is correct. However, when you talk about public perception, we cannot bypass it, it is what it is, and in fact that it would change it needs this long-term judicial procedure to be aware of as few as possible and then the perception of the public would certainly change. But it should also be said that for years in this high house, it has been said by opposition colleagues that the banks and courts have been in conflict with the Frank case. Today, when the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the user "Franka" today, no one speaks of it, nor does the media. So much for perception.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166942	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are right about everything you have said to your colleague Babic, I have also said that I trust the Croatian judiciary, for example, especially the judicial authority in Croatia, and that there are no failures in every segment of the functioning of any institution. I agree with you that slow justice is not until the end of the right that citizens, and especially the victims expect. Therefore, this speed of solving the subject is desirable she must never go to the center of quality, but fast solving of the case would be very good. In this regard, the report shows that the deadlines for resolving cases are shortened, and that there is a significant number of pending cases, it is said that the judiciary is working, just as I say on the subjects that are visible in society, which society is more noticeable, which cause emotions to work in such cases, class cases, the judicial authority as little error as possible in the first degree because it creates a picture of the work of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166944	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166945	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Supreme Court, representative of the Ministry of Justice, has no good perception in the Republic of Croatia, we have hundreds of reasons, thousands of reasons these last days, which is why this perception is and why the people do not trust the judiciary. The court's authority. We see that this is one of the main causes of both economic and economic and demographic backlogs of the Republic of Croatia for 1001 reasons. Mr. Djuro Sessa President of the Supreme Court, you said that the loaded courts are the county's larger and larger municipal ones, so you didn't quite pick up when this government shut down, let's just say we didn't appoint a court in the Dalmatian Zagora, we don't have any municipal court, none. During the reign of Joseph, Francis Joseph opened the court in Sinj in 1876, he was shut down. Everything in Split has been taken away, no one defends the interests of these little people. The land books everything in the judiciary there is here a representative of the ministry is disastrous, you are at command responsibility, if it could be persecuted by Anta Gotovina who led the fair Liberation War, if it could be the other generals, you have led the Croatian state to the bottom because you are silent, keep quiet. I have no reason, it is not for me Mamić something, Zdravko Mr. Zdravko Mamić most reliable, he says he is with you in very close and intimate relations except in one thing that I do not want to do with.../incomprehensible/... nor mention. How do you comment? He says he's with you on a daily basis, maybe he's the reason, maybe you've made it possible for him, maybe you're the guardian angel, the guardian angel to be on the other side, to be in another country where the Croats also have a right, that's another country to our fellow citizens, but the fact is that he's on the other side of the border. You don't comment on it, if it's true and nobody checks it out, then what's it about? That's what Zdravko Mamić, a fugitive before the Croatian law, said for you. He's not with anyone more intimately than he is with you. We can confirm that, and I'd like you to answer that. For a year a law has been passed here that not everyone can ban Djuro Sessa, all judges must publish property cards without obstacles, without demands, that I personally have to make a request, as we do in the Croatian Assembly and as in all other bodies. To this day, and with this law, this government boasted the PR was invisible, I refer to GDPR, I will call on it, so if the parliamentary representatives can, the Prime Minister everyone else does not see any reason, if this House voted this out from where you are rightful President of the Supreme Court of the Djurus Sess to not be made public. It's the law. And why you don't appoint judges under the new law, so that's the law, that's what MOST suggested then was, the government gave that law in the procedure, the government, we proposed to him to change what happened to the property cards. How do you comment here in recent days we have a number of judgments, but how do you comment when a man in Vukovar who gave two sons, a judge in court says, a judge who judges two sons, sends a message to the public, what kind of message is that, is that perhaps patriotic, is that a message of patriotism? Pity for your sons in silence, in peace, Mr. Marijan Zivkovic. I know you will not be discussing matters of individuality but it is a terrible bad message to all those families, parents, sons, daughters who have given someone in the Homeland War and all the participants in the Homeland War, and you must react to it, you must as the President of the Supreme Court, so not all of them are connected to their godmothers, if in the Constitutional Court, if the president of the HDZ Club is his best man, if he is in Zadar Kalmeta godfather, if Budimir Lončar is there, if Stipe Mesic is there to be bestowed, so it is not likely that the Supreme Court is silent about the statement of the judge who tells Mr. Marijan Zivković that, the judge in front of the public and the court says that he grieves for his sons in loneliness, in silence, which he gave 2 of his son for freedom and, for freedom of the Republic, it is shameful. Could that happen, for example? in America? In the Republic of Croatia, in the United States, you can't. We have a relationship with some of the things that are fundamental things that Steve Culey mentioned earlier about war crimes. I also said to you today when the session was closed, I will repeat it, closed by this veteran where he was a state lawyer, that and I tell you, everything he read earlier to his colleague Culej, and the judgments of the Supreme Court, I personally believe that we have invested a little energy as much as we have invested in the courting of The Hague in words spoken, spoken by Ivo Sanader and Stipe Mesic, Vladimir Seks, locate, transfer, process, that we have little invested today, that we would not have a problem of war crimes and that institutions, judicial authority, attorneyship of state, all those bodies, to this day to solve these problems, that we have not invested so much energy in order to plow the foundations of the Croatian state, while stealing and looting with the help of Joza Petrovic, any Todoric, any of the Tedeski, here I will tell you one example, that we have not invested so much in my memory, so much. '91. In Sinj, there were a million and a half marks on the earthquake account, from the earthquake, to direct those funds, which was a logical decision, for the weapons of the Cetin area, he borrowed the money of Meteor Paper, the company Emil Tedeski, never returned that money to Sinj or if, so I'm giving criminal charges, he raised, maybe even returned the chip, maybe returned it, if he returned some account, I want to know what it was with these people, whatever, where they got the first millions from, from where? And that's why people don't trust each other, those people who built that raw material square, those who singled out that weapon to defend the Cetina area when the Vrlički end was attacked, the Cetinski end, Dalmatia was threatened, raped, Peru was mined, that money was invested in weapons, so it made me feel like the judiciary was doing its job, and after 17 years. as I was a professional soldier, so would I be in politics, so as far as labour rights are concerned, workers of the Dalmatians down in the area, Jujuplasty, the Shkver, the Auto Transport of Sinj, all injustices to injustice, and all the judiciary, all the judiciary, you've done enormous damage and your command responsibility is if we speak in the last 2nd years, and the last 2nd years, so look at what judgments they are, of course, I am creating a number of enemies, but bravely speaking about corruption, bravely, I have numerous criminal charges and are raising daily criminal charges, mainly from those who are essentially willing, who have robbed my people while Croatian defenders and the whole people have fought truly for freedom of the Republics and of course it doesn't change, these people are the most influential in the Republic. Here's just this million-and-a-half mark of Meteor Paper, let it show the bill where the money was returned, I asked the Municipality of Sinj, the city of Sinj, I can't find an account, nothing of justice, of old age, of this, of that. Based on Eve Sanader's judgment, this Constitutional Court has refused, so what kind of justice is that, what kind of messages are these, what kind of state is that, what kind of state is that? They're key faces in the Republic of Croatia. As far as your report is concerned, it's more than chaotic, you're not only in command responsibility, but because of your inaction, you'd have to step down, but you won't, because you're only here in the role of the HDZ and the protection of the HDZ, you're the HDZ Commissioner in the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166946	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. We have replicas, an esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166947	Comrade Bulj, do you think that the judiciary is independent when it so spotlessly reacts to the events of the people that happen? What do you think would have been different if it hadn't been for us a few thousand in the river when they immediately detained Skalamera, regardless of what it was just a parking conflict with a person who otherwise was conflicting and moving but a knife on someone else or now what happened in Zadar when it really did, it's a sea nation to come out and say that it can't, it can't be released by those who were accused, obviously there was evidence of why they were brought in and then brought them back now and changed their decision, it gave the judiciary independently, if it was independent of why they changed the decisions after the people happened? Unfortunately, the only thing that hasn't changed since the people of Vukovar took place because the people were I've collected and requested processing, but they haven't decided yet that they're going to solve, but they're solving other less priority matters, and not those that would actually make that people happen, they don't find rapists and murderers in Vukovar. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Who's still walking. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166948	Comrade, please watch your time. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166949	Right, in the case of the Skalamer River, it showed what the Croatian judiciary is and the judiciary has shown what the Croatian judiciary and the judiciary is, that they are doing huge damage and individual as a man and send a terrible message to our young people and citizens and Vukovar, cry for Vukovar at last year's protest which was a fair protest, to point to all victims and criminals who are walking past their victims today, and to this day walk is evidence of the failure of the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. And one question arises about Vukovar for pre-election purposes. If it's about Cyrillic, the Cyrillic plate I'm against because I was the co-ordinator for collecting signatures in Dalmatia, HDZ will open now and you know who HDZ is with, who voted the Cyrillic law? HDZ. ... Let's see who set it up, who voted? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Who are they in the coalition with? Use the lowest passions exclusively for pre-election purposes and therefore the judiciary is here where it is, for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166950	I thank my colleague Bulja for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166951	Thank you, Vice President. Ma co-worker Bulj, you would only refer to these first few sentences of your presentation regarding the abolition of something in Sinj, we must be fair, you participated in the debate, and you and I regarding the Law on Court Courts, and we must really stress that nothing has been abolished in Sinj, that the Municipal Court in Split has its permanent service in Sinj, that no right of our dear Sinjans will be disproved, that they can use municipal court services as well as citizens and Trogir and Supetar and Starigrad, all where there is a Municipal Court in Split a permanent service, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166952	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166953	I believe that in a report by the Supreme Court president, he said that municipal courts, county courts that are higher, are burdened with judges to punish themselves. Sinj is the center of the Dalmatian mountain, the historical, cultural centre. And it is not enough to come to Sinj on the alk for elections and paint and make a lambicide in that area because behind you there is nothing left and a sonic court, not one in the Dalmatian Zagora from Krka to Neretva we do not have the seat of the municipal court, it is embarrassing. This area has been forgotten, this area has been a source of human potential that went to both Zagreb and Third countries, today it is empty areas. The only thing you've done, you've abolished this court, you've wanted to abolish the birthplace, so I've fought it, and now you've remembered the garbage to delay us, but you won't, gentlemen, you'll return the municipal court, it will happen, if it could during the occupation, Emperor Joseph and Austro-Hungarian, you can do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166954	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Angelko Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166955	Thank you, Vice President. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. So every debate aims to determine what is good and what works well and also to identify shortcomings so that these shortcomings can be corrected, corrected and the system improved. That the situation is pretty bad in the judiciary, it tells us the following data. 55% of judges believe that some judges are not making progress because of their ability, 18% of Croatian judges believe that their colleagues are being bribed. If judges themselves have such a humiliating opinion for their portfolio and for their colleagues, we do not have to be surprised at the fact that 76% of our citizens feel that the situation in the judiciary is extremely bad. In contrast, given that we are a member of the EU, the best situation is in Denmark where 86% of respondents believe in their judiciary, followed by Finland with 82% and Austria with 81%. Of course, one such situation was recorded by SOA and that, a few years ago, two years ago, it gave a review in its report, where it believes that individual judges are literally a threat to national security. Today, we did not get an answer as to whether the report was followed and what happened to those judges who are a threat to national security. That there's a whole series of scandalous verdicts and cases, tells us a few affairs. It's a five-year-old affair since the arrest and nothing since the trial. I listened very carefully to your report, where you listed how many days of court proceedings, in this case for five years, there was not a single hearing and 100 families for their apartments. Those 100 families don't have their own home today, a case in the bellowar court. Then, unequal court practice, let's say on the coast one chief was prosecuted for evading or lurking with public procurement for 600,000 kunas. There's a two-and-a-half million kuna in Varazdin, and it's all over again. Namely, the State Audit in its annual supervision, the budget of the City of Varazdin, found that no more than 2.5 million kunas spent without implementing the prescribed public procurement procedure, were all delivered to the State Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Office is not acting but forwarding this to the Ministry of Economy in the Public Procurement System Administration, which receives 8 days to supplement or correct the indictment proposal, of course they are late and the whole case is rejected. So it's a crime on the coast if you spend 600,000 kunas from a budget past public procurement, you can spend 2.5 million kuna in Varazdin. Also, the punishments that our courts express are incredible. We have, for example, in northern Croatia 3 former SDP MPs, they were all MPs when proceedings were initiated against them. Now, the first to commit a crime against official duty and unconscious work where no mention of the kuna is made that the budget is damaged, means only official duties and unwitting work is listed, it gets 10 months. parole. The second SDP official makes damages in the 5,000 kuna budget, receives a fine of 8 months. conditional. The third does damage in budget 14500, gets 5 months. If you do more damage to the budget, you get less punishment. That's enough talking about court practice. Also, recently we had opportunities in local media in the area of the Varazdin County and the town of Varazdin read that first-degree and this is the County Court in Zagreb, did not want to issue a verdict. So the verdict has become literally official secret. The media were looking for a delivery, they couldn't get that verdict today, the explanation is next. In order for their verdict to affect the Supreme Court's judges. So now I'm wondering what kind of judge we have in the Supreme Court if a local weekly reporter can so much influence the position of the Supreme Court judges, and what is it? There are several procedures against the city of Varazdin that total over 300 million. The city of Varazdin is losing them all in a row for the time being, losing them all in a row, and the city of Varazdin will most likely have to be credited to avoid bankruptcy. It's done, for example. about the purchase of land, certain people bought land of 10 euros, sold 149, everything then ended up in court, and now that land at the end of interest, court costs, turns out to cost the city 350 euros. So what was bought for 10 euros, now ultimately costs 350 euros. Or the problem of barbaric embalmed garbage. In 2007, the inspection found that this garbage polluted air, water, soil. In 2011, it all ends up in court, today there's no judgment. So the Supreme Court has put everything back to square one this year. For 5 years, water, soil and air have been poisoned, apparently residents downriver from Varazdin should improve or I don't know what happens to them so that someone reacts and finally solves the problem for the city of Varazdin. It's also the problem with settlements. Some judges felt that settlements between DORH and certain individuals were so scandalous that they did not want to implement them. I don't think you've said a word about it today, literally, so I think we should talk about it. In my opinion, too, the problem and the unpublic debates, among other things a year ago, we had one case of organising an elite prostitution which was, of course, closed to the public, regardless of which, the public and the media learned about the girls who offered these services but not how the newspaper states about users or former members of previous governments, mayors, former and current judges of municipal and county courts, representatives of the DORH, etc. Does this mean that these judges and state lawyers are still in the system? Do they still share justice? The key question is, if one night's sex cost 1500 euros, the judge's salary is an average of 11,000 kuna, so the entire salary was spent that night, so what are these state lawyers and judges living from? So this debate had no intention of calling anyone out, but to take a realistic look at where we are in the judiciary, to make up for and build up and make up these shortcomings, and of course the judiciary works better, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166956	Thank you, we have a few replicas, a esteemed colleague of Ante's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166957	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Uncle, since you mentioned the coast and the coast, I had to answer the phone, you little joke. You mentioned exactly the most important concept in this entire report. in this whole debate and this is an unequal case law where certain courts are here specifically with you in Varazdin or with me down in Split, they simply do not make the same nor similar decisions. I believe that here I have also asked the President of the Supreme Court on the board, and I believe that the President of the Supreme Court, along with the council, gives certain instructions to certain judges to settle certain disputes but we still do not have a uniformly digitised and clear case-law to which judges will call that we can have equal i.e. The same rate of justice were they on the coast or with you in Varazdin or any part of the Republic of Croatia, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166958	Thank you, fellow Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166959	My colleague Bačić, well, that's exactly where my debate was going, to point to unequal practice. If you look at it, so it's only 200 km literally air line, in one middle you do damage to the budget of 600,000 and the criminal and first-degree sentence is a year in prison in the second middle, you do 4 to 5 times more damage, so 2.5 million, misdemeanor and prosecution, one day it's late with the addition of the motion, and you're freed. And that's exactly what one of the great problems of the judiciary is because our citizens see that it literally turns out to be judged by the eye rather than by the law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166960	Thank you, next replica of the esteemed colleague Arsen bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Striker, you mentioned three SDP officials, so let's re-analyze the figures. This one without any damage to the budget, 14. I mean, right? Then this second one, together to cut it short, was the damage of 22,000 kunas for them three and they got a total of 2 years in prison. So 22,000 kuna, 2 years in prison, Planinska affair, 15 million kuna together, 9 years in prison. Do you see any disproportionateness, see, no, no, so 9 years in prison of which 6 in prison and this was peeling potatoes, and these three were all conditional and then but disproportionately, here is 22,000 kuna and 2 years together, and here is 15 million kuna and 9 years together. So a little disproportionate is still too large to use it now as an example of unequal court practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166962	Thank you. Answer, fellow Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166963	My colleague Bauk, so in the debate itself, I have already pointed out an unequal caselaw, cited examples that if you do less damage to the budget, there is a penalty that you will. the possibility of getting a far greater sentence. And if we're already talking about such cases, so in Varazdin you have a case of a public-private partnership where the State's Attorney's Office bombed the public for months that has an object of nearly 200 million kuna, the same state's attorney's office eventually went on a settlement and suggested that the defendant be punished by work for the greater good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166964	Thank you, next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166965	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, Mr. Sess's Supreme Court President, in his address to the first recommendation he said, he said it was the completion of the Supreme Court process for unifying the case law, what you were saying. And that was doubtful for some judges because if the judge is independent in deciding, the question is this uniform practice. The second thing, because of the perception of the public you were talking about is whether there are any corrupt judges. There are corrupt judges, that's no doubt, but it's a public perception that they don't respond to anyone, that judges don't respond to anyone and that they don't have any responsibilities or that they don't. 132 tight proceedings were, of which 124 were completed, 8 were still under way, 78 cases were found to be a tight liability of judges, in 6 cases a decision was taken to resolve from the judicial duty, 16 conditional resolutions, 29 reproofs and 27... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166966	Thank you, fellow Uncle, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166967	Thank you. I, in my own debate, pointed out that the goal of each or at least should be our debate here, to praise what is good and also to point out clearly what is not to improve the system. These figures you listed, that's true, but it should be done by the judges themselves, only by the judiciary to see that they have responsibilities and not by the media everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166968	Thank you. Next debate, esteemed colleague Ante Bacic, come in. You're giving up. My colleague Jelkovac is giving up. My colleague Ante Babic is giving up. A colleague, Sasa Djujic, is not present. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166969	Thank you very much, this is really expressive, I wasn't hoping for that, so just a second to turn my computer on, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. So, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to discuss today a report on the situation in the judiciary and the report by the President of the Supreme Court, and I have already said in the introduction what I think the judiciary is and it's not a problem that I think it's just me. 90% of our citizens think the same way, feel the injustice every day, politics that is up to elbows in the judiciary, and I will say once again, I think 90% of the judges of correct judges, but the whole system that HDZ made during the 1990s and whose exhibit Mr. Sesa is now appointed here by the President of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to know which way, we will probably never know, between him and Mr. Turudić elected the President of the Republic of Croatia and now we have the judiciary that we have and whoever wants such justice continues, will give the trust of the President of the Republic in the 12 months elections. If you're satisfied with the fact that the President of the Supreme Court releases any responsibility, Mr. Bukarica, I beg you, don't gesture as I speak, please. No, I see you gesture dissatisfied with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166970	Comrade Maras, please, argue, do not speak to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166971	I apologize, but I just have to react, I'm sorry, I have to because I saw it, it's in my sight.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166972	My colleague, please, you're arguing, don't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166973	So if people are satisfied with the fact that the President of the Supreme Court is as much like the Justice Minister, Mr. Boznjakovic, does not see any problem that the president of the largest court in the Republic of Croatia does not stop when the police say stop and tell us fairy tales about not seeing him, that he thought someone was pressing him, etc., these are excuses from the neighborhood as we say, no, Zagreb. From the neighborhood, those cools can sell to somebody else. But obviously that's enough to say by the President of the Supreme Court who decides to protect Mr. Turudic, btw. which is driven in a car nearly 80,000 euros in expensive, substitute, I mean what in itself is not a synergy, why shouldn't a judge who has such power in his hands, representing the state, see to it? Running away from the police or not, I'm sorry, to say more specifically, not stop when the police say stop and drive in a car that costs like an apartment in the city of Zagreb, it's not a dispute. Mr. Sesa says, no, it's okay, it's okay, just keep going. You didn't harm the judge's duty or reputation in the Republic of Croatia by anything, he had opportunities. On the other hand, when you see how many addictive relationships there are in our judiciary, and even when people on such duties don't share their independence with Chinese walls, you wonder how other judges will react? For example, in the leadership of the Supreme Court, people are linked to the business of, for example, the craft chamber, the economic chamber, and they receive fees. Let me remind you, the leadership of the Chamber of Commerce, HDZ, the leadership of the craft chamber, the candidate of HDZ for mayor, tell me how that people who are not connected to HDZ believe in the independence of such persons. If you already have a business relationship that binds you in some way, and at least you ate lunch, you had coffee and you got a fee for what you're doing in those institutions, by the will of those people, so what's not the paradox for the vice president to lead all the honors of the HOK, sitting in the DIP, and the mayor's candidate is HDZ, the president of the HOK. So give me an explanation of the independence between the man sitting in the DIP and the president of the HOK who is the candidate in the election and working together, he probably gets a Mr. and a fee for the job he's doing. Explain to me, explain to the citizens what independence it is, what independence it is when the President of the Supreme Court as head of the DIP on the sentence of Mr. Jandrokovic who says so look, there is little more going on in the campaign, there are ministers driving around the field, there are government funds, he doesn't even blink, it's okay with him. Of course he's fine with HDZ putting him there. He can't blink. And then, for example, Mr. Bandic was taken for the excess of campaign posters compared to last year, he was sanctioned for spending money. And how is that not comparable to Mr. Sess driving a minister in the Lika-Senj County campaign? Why didn't you morally react and explain to the Croatian citizens that it was wrong, why didn't you give your opinion as you gave your opinion when you complained to the President of the Parliament about what I said in the Croatian Parliament? Here it is, I got it right here. Look, Mr. Sesa, is there a right representative in the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Constitution to have his own position, whatever he is, stupid, smart, funny, inappropriate? Does the Croatian Parliament allow a representative to express his view of anything, regardless of what the subject is? Is the difference in the attitude of whether it's written on a sticker or coming out of your mouth like you said in the campaign here all sorts of things and by HDZ, etc.? Mr. Sesa, you can't react to HDZ's demand, it's none of your business. Your job is to be independent and you're not independent. And I can prove it to you in multiple cases and I've told you one now. How if Jandrokovic says he's driving more in the campaign with state cars, you don't blink at all as the president of the DIP, you don't react or say it might not be right, it may be hard to prove whether they used it or didn't, but you didn't react, because you were proposed by the president. Kolinda Grabar Kitarović and that is why we need the President of the Supreme Court with character. A person who will be independent of such incentives will not care if he sued Jandrokovic or Pero or Marko because when he sued Jandrokovic, he has not even cooled down yet, but the opinion is written. On the same day. You have not seen such urgency in Croatian courts as before when Jandrokovic made a complaint because he is a representative in the assembly, we thank God we have the Constitution, so there is no longer even a question of who did what, I say, can be stupid, dumbest, one way or another, in the assembly man, a representative elected by Croatian citizens under the Croatian Constitution has the right to say his opinion and for that he cannot sanction or even Djuro Sesa. And I'll fight it all the way. To the end. In this House, remember, this report will support those in a year that will no longer be in power because we are looking for a different judiciary, we are looking for a different judiciary, we are looking for justice for people, and we are treating everyone the same way, that cases don't go out of date. We saw now a few days ago large cases of corruption from the past that go into oblivion, that when a man admits to taking money from the Fimi Media Ministry for his party millions and millions of kunas, that his confession in the end is not being rejected as illegal evidence because we all know what happened there, people find holes to get out of criminal stores, colleagues and colleagues. And finally, I just want to say one thing, the Croatian judiciary is problematic from the top. Judges, there are a lot of them who are doing their job correctly but politicians in the judiciary, including Mr. Sess and Mr. Turudic, who perform in public with various political positions, remember Mr. Turudić and his statements, about everything the man had on Milanovic, about this, about Peri, about Mark, about what's going on here, what's going on there, people are more politicians than people sitting in this House and until there's justice, and justice isn't to free the rapists and let them off the street and until the Supreme Court president reacts and says it's wrong, I'm going to start a tight procedure, and we haven't heard today whether they will react to this judge, I won't give up either I or SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166974	Thank you very much. We have replicas, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166975	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, I'd like to ask you a very simple question. Do you estimate that the Croatian Parliament or the judiciary has earned a better grade? Is this one better for you than a judicial authority? That's what I'm curious about, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166976	I don't know what that has to do with Mr. Maras' exposure, but tell your colleague Maras, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166977	Thank you very much. My colleague Alexic, I'm not going to give that grade but I'll tell you in a year's time there are elections and people will choose based on how someone acted, what he said, what he had on his laptop, people have the right to choose and they choose me or Bulja or Mrs. There, Mr. Uncle to represent them. Unfortunately, here we have a system set up by the HDZ that's got so much money in it that you just don't have a choice or you can judge. On this side, I agree absolutely, and I give full support to Mr Bernardić on behalf of the club, the judiciary needs full reform, it needs a kind of new beginning and a new beginning cannot be with the old people, try to understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166978	Thank you, colleague Maras for your reply. Next debate, dear colleague Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166979	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. President of the Supreme Court. Let me immediately say that most of my presentations will not only be based on your report, but also on what I hold in my hand, and that is the report of the European Commission for 2019, in which the situation in the judiciary of the EU Member States is shown in parallel and which is not nearly as favourable to the Croatian judiciary as you have shown in your report. Dear President of the Supreme Court, from the ranks of your profession there are often criticisms that there is too little separation for the judiciary in Croatia, that judicial separations in the Republic of Croatia are not enough and are not enough and that they are one of the reasons for the poor situation in the Croatian judiciary. However, when we take this report and compare the situation in the Croatian judiciary with the judiciary of other EU Member States, we come up with some interesting data. According to the number of judges per capita, we are a convincing winner in Europe. Following the independence of the judiciary in terms of GDP, the 5th is in the EU and citizens are perceived as being independent of the judiciary, convincingly in the last place. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the research carried out shows that Croatian citizens not only do not believe in the judiciary, but that this mistrust is constantly growing. And then when you ask them what are the main reasons why the judiciary is not independent, we come up with the following data, which is that most of the citizens who have been surveyed, almost 70% of them consider that the influence of politics and the pressure of politicians and politicians is the biggest reason for the independence of Croatian judges. With all due respect to you, but your choice as Supreme Court President has made me a significant contribution. Your choice and the circumstances under which it happened, among other things, and the fact that neither you nor your political sponsors, you didn't want to show your property cards, you didn't want to show your property condition, which is why we had a session of the Justice Committee but even after that delay we didn't get all the property cards because as we know when someone is being selected, HDZ and property cards are hiding like a snake's feet, but well, that's just one part of it. Dear Mr. Supreme Court President, in your opening statement you pointed out as a positive step and something that should solve problems in the Croatian judiciary, the establishment of a High Criminal Court, in a publically known as the Turudic court and I will ask you why it is so positive? According to the report you delivered, about 1900 criminal cases were received at the Supreme Court in 2018. At the same time, 1900 criminal cases were resolved, and it seems to me that 20 or 23 cases were less resolved than was received. The result is that at the end of the year, 707 cases were left behind in the Supreme Court's criminal department, exactly 707 cases. 1900 items received, 707 lags, I think we can say that in large part this backlog is the result of the fact that objects are in work if we know that a hundred days is the time to solve an individual case, then it's obvious that it's only a small backlog that's being dragged away from years, it's a criminal branch of trial at the Supreme Court. On the other hand, the civil branch has a backlog of 14 220 items. The subject more or less, I may have made a mistake, but that's 20 times more, and what is our political decision after which you, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, warmly welcomed? Do not react to the civil branch of the trial and, for example, establish a High Civil Court that should deal with these lags, but we establish a High Criminal Court. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if 20 cases are less resolved than the number of people received need to be done in the Supreme Court, it is then to hire another judge, not to establish a new court to give Mr Turudic an even stronger political position to influence the Croatian judiciary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have watched this report and the statutes of limitations are hardly mentioned. They're mentioned only a little bit more in the courts, but other courts get old as if they're not a problem, and then you open up a newspaper and you see that some big cases that are being dragged back in the '90s end up out of date. Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd rather you talked a little bit more about the statutes, but here it is. It is your right to choose what you will write about in the report, it is your right to choose what you will discuss about your opening presentation, but it is also our right to highlight what is missing and what should be the place there. Your Honor, Mr. President, in the replica of your opening statement, I mentioned the problem of unquality decisions. This is a problem that is increasingly indicated by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia when it says that the reasons set out in the reasoning are not sufficient to support the decision made by the Court in the sentence of judgment. However, it is not only what he discussed and decided by the Constitutional Court. A lack of quality or lack of reason was content and a number of decisions at the European Court of Human Rights, especially when certain security measures are being discussed. That is why Croatia has also paid certain penalties, but also an indicator that is seen again in the European judicial light that should work further on the education of our judges. And when you look at the European judicial traffic lights, then it is clear that Croatia belongs to those EU Member States that are the least involved in the education of the court and that is something else that is your direct responsibility, and the consequences of these responsibilities are among other and unquality decisions. I'm not going to single out any of them now, many of them singled out, but what I'm going to ask you, and I've asked you already in the replica of your opening presentation, you have the authority to carry out tight procedures. Do you use that authority? Do you think the justice system of the Republic of Croatia is all right? Do you think there is no reason to initiate proceedings for violating the duties of individuals acting as judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia? I'm sure there are and because of you, when I say you, not only do I mean you personally but you as the President of the Supreme Court, but also you as a judge, it would be good to step out of that safe zone where there are many professions and to realize that for each profession, it is best to deal with those in their ranks who do bad work. Only then and only after such a reckoning can the profession be regained confidence. Unfortunately, if we look at the long-term practice of DSV both in the process and in the decision-making process, and self-critics in the judicial order is insufficient. And she's gone. And that is why we should not be surprised at this result that Europe has warned us about. And that is your responsibility because you are at the head of the pyramid and objectively if we look, objectively if we look, your position is stronger and more difficult and important for the functioning of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia than it is for the minister of justice. But the question is, have you taken advantage of that position in these two years? You've shown us numbers that are good at first sight, but the figures are one thing, and the reality of those who have been waiting for a first-degree decision for years second, not just a first-degree one. I know of several cases of labour disputes that stand at the Supreme Court for 3, 4 or 5 years and are not resolved, and these are cancellations of the labour contract, these are emergency procedures. Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm going to stop there because it requires time, but regardless of the figures, this report and the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166980	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin. Next debate, dear colleague Damjan Vucelic, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166981	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Supreme Court President. Now, we from the Living Wall have reviewed your report and the report is excellent. It would be great if that report were true, if it had anything to do with the situation on the ground. Unfortunately, neither is it true nor has anything to do with the situation on the ground. I'm just waiting here for a year for the President of the Supreme Court to come here and tell the truth that he's deposing these HDZs, that he's independent, but unfortunately, you're not. You continue to speak and think as the masters of your destiny tell you. The situation in the judiciary is a disaster. You have made the Croatian judiciary the most corrupt and inefficient judiciary in Europe. Except that we have the largest number of judges per capita, every three new cases we take, we have an old case unsolved. Only those items like a young man who wears a hemp leaf or grandmothers who sell cheese, salad or, say, roast brandy are solved. On these cases, you're the one who's frisking your stats. It's an interesting statistic. You keep telling us with that same statistic that you're doing something. You're fooling our own eyes that tell us there's more and more crime in the country and the same criminals you don't sanction on the street, laughing at us from their fairies, from their yachts. You're actually encouraging new generations of criminals to start dealing with crime. The citizens themselves, sir, don't believe you. Are you aware that you have convinced an average citizen that it is not at all worth starting a trial. And you convinced him that the lawsuits are very long, they're long, they're long and expensive. Besides, the uncertainty in people is whether they'll even get that lawsuit because if they run into a corrupt judge or a secure lawsuit anymore, it's not safe. People have the worst opinion about you in Europe. That's why you have a reduction in the number of litigation cases. Among other things, these same people are moving out. They're moving out because of you, they're moving out because of your work, they're moving out for crime. Judges are not independent, that's what the judges themselves told you in researching the European network of judges. There's too many of them, and there's not a lot of good-doers. The rest are either unemployed or corrupt judges who have done only personal business out of this honorable business and everything in proportion to politics. Judges are protected like face bears. In a country of corruption, that's bad, very bad. Judges shall have immunity, shall not be detained, nor shall criminal proceedings be brought against them without the approval of the State Judicial Council. Let's consider how many of these judges are on someone's payroll, so there's no way they're going to sanction one of their own, so tomorrow they'll be up. If you have money, political ties or a valid HDZ party card judge, i.e. The judge will release you or your son from rape, murder or robbery. There are rare cases where media pressure is so strong that judges change their mind. This is how the mob works. It's interesting how obsolescence doesn't touch you at all. Over 6,000 cases have gone out of date for the last two years. Why in the reports, say, there's no record of, say, judges with the most out-of-date cases as well as why they went into obsolescence? Of course with their names and last names. It took you almost 4 years to replace the judge of the High Court of Violents, Antoni Kovacic, because of her lack of work in the last few years, 700 cases have gone into oblivion, half of which are related to cases of domestic violence. Be careful, her colleague, Judge Zeljko Saric, did not handle proceedings against her for years because he did not know how to send an invitation, where to send an invitation to a tight procedure. So much for your judges' work. Why is there no such thing in the Croatian Parliament report? Do you think your statistics and your charts are more important than that? How independent you are, I'd like to remind you of the Miroslav Kutla case. Judge Maja Printar Stipic has suspended two more proceedings against Miroslav Kutla, the process of withdrawing money from Diona and privatising Rovinj Mirna. The corners are laughing at you from BiH right now, laughing at all of us. How is it possible for Mrs. Devereaux to be here? Judge Printar Stipic still works as a judge? And he'll probably be working as a judge until his retirement. How independent you are, I would also like to remind you of the case of George Gavrilovic. Judge Renata Milicevic has closed the case against Gavrilovic, who was accused of war profiting. Gavrilovic bought 5 companies from the Gavrilovic meat industry for two million marks, designed to defend Croatia. The work of war profiting shouldn't be out of date but when you have money and that's to be dealt with by legal maneuvers, of course. Is it possible that this judge is still working? Of course it's possible because this is Croatia. How independent you are, I would like to remind you of the example of a fellow Sauche sitting with us in the Parliament. A colleague is safe as long as the ruling party raises his hand, the daily affair stands in place as long as he is obedient and raises that same hand for them. How independent you are, I would remind you, with the Milan Bandic case, the current mayor of Zagreb has over 200 criminal reports, we no longer know how many there are but there are many. But Bandic shouldn't be afraid of going to jail. The high administrative court recently released Bandic for 18m kuna tax debt. This is just a drop in the sea. Bandic will die sooner than end up behind bars. He's an excellent example of your independent and unsuspecting judiciary. And the process will last Sanader until all the judges who run the process die of old age. While his daughter still enjoys the apartment in Manhattan that they bought by robbing Croatia's state. How independent you are is the government standing on the feet this judiciary should have broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166982	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166983	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Vucelic, you said, a fellow Sacha is sitting here with us, I'd say it's not the court's fault, I'd say it's the legislative and executive authorities' fault that they prescribed together so that executive and legislative authority are like this, you know. In fact, there is no legislative authority, there is only executive authority and then the legislative authority all that the executive authority says must do. The rules are that every suspect can sit with us. I worked at the state-owned company HZ Infrastructure there when you create some problem and you don't know if you're guilty, for example. On the tracks, some vehicle trips are known to have some people in the chain who may be guilty and then until they are found guilty they are suspended. There's no suspension here, there's a man sitting here all the time, a suspect, and it's no good regulation. It's to be banned, it can't go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166984	Thank you. Answer. Thank you very much. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166985	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In the first part of my presentation, I was talking about what's been going on for the last two years in the Franak case, because it was very lively, very active, and in the next year we're still having some activity, so I'd like to mention some of the items that are waiting, I'm not going to say anything about the changes in terms of what should be brought, how should I judge. I'll just point out that there are cases that have priority and I expect the Supreme Court to decide on these cases as a matter of priority. So we have an object related to the limitation of claims related to the integrity of the contract and the integrity of the contractual provisions in general. The Supreme Court's position is such that today, if you sue for some worthless contractual provision that has not yet been established, you have the right to receive only 5 years from the date of the lawsuit. That is the position of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The position of the County Court in Rijeka is not like that. The position of the County Court in Rijeka is that such an attitude of the Supreme Court actually annuls the institute of integrity as one that has no statute of limitations. So at the Supreme Court, there is currently one revision under the designation REV-X-634/18, so REV-X-634/18 of the County Court in Rijeka, where the County Court in Rijeka said there is no statute of limitations, despite the fact that more than 5 years have passed and now the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has to decide. This is a process that has been going on since 2018 at the Supreme Court, so time is already somewhere to decide. Why is this procedure important? It's important because of, say, the euro and kuna loans that have overpaid interest, and all of them are out of the question about these interest claims, and if any change of attitude happens now, these people will all be entitled to lawsuits, and EU law says there is no statute of limitations. The second major audit in the Supreme Court is revision 4118/19. In this revision 4118/19 the council decided that banks were also audited in Franak, so the council president is Katarina Buljan, the rapporteur is Slavko Pavkovic and members of the council are Aleksandra Peruzović, Viktorija Lovrić and Branko Medančić. The audit refers to the integrity of the contract. It is requested that the lawyer has requested that the contract or that the case be referred to the EU court as a preliminary question before establishing the integrity of the contract. Who gives such a layman's opinion is that the Supreme Court has a choice here either to determine one or to send one to the EU court and only then to establish. So the issue of the EU court cannot be avoided in this case and decided negatively because in this case it would violate the directive's provision that the last instance must go to the EU court if an answer to the previous question is required. So I expect the matter to be referred to the EU court as soon as possible or to decide on the case, or I will say it positively this time because if it does not go to the EU court, then it must be decided positively there is no other case it is so simple. Today, a review procedure has also been launched, however, I have nothing to say for the review procedure, there is a clear procedure, after 15 days the courts will submit their data on how many cases they have in the process, in 15 days the Supreme Court will decide whether to initiate the review procedure relating to converted loans or not to launch and then within 2 months it must decide on the case. There is no big dilemma, the review procedure must be completed very quickly, it is a review procedure where the lawyer Marina Cvitko Tomic demanded to be established, in fact, the court in Pazin required it on the basis of her cases, to determine whether the conversion of CHF credit was such a waste because at the time the conversion was done, CHF was still valid, it was later found to be invalid, and now that it was invalidally converted and now the court is asking whether the conversion as such is harmful. We'll get an answer on that soon enough. It is also important to know, it is important to know that what is most important for the Franak case will soon be published on the Supreme Court pages. Today I was informed that the Supreme Court will be on the pages of the Supreme Court and the verdict of Judge Radovan Dobrinić and the attached judgment of the High Court of Commerce and of the Supreme Court and I thank the Supreme Court that they will finally publish this because it is very important for the full public to all those who deal with the case of Franak, for 125,000 people covered by the case Franak because they have negotiated such loans and it is important that these judgments be made public and accessible to all because they are binding for lower courts. Well, here's the Honorable Judge Sess, I hope you'll answer my first question. Are you going to do more of these things that I've been talking about as a matter of priority? You told me at the Justice Committee's meeting that it would go priority, but the public wants to hear it here at the pay phone to confirm it because the public wants to hear it from your mouth, and then in that sense I ask you one more time, will these remaining legal issues that need to be settled in the Supreme Court have priority over other legal issues because they refer to 125,000 potential cases? But not only 125,000 cases related to francs, but another 200,000 potential cases related to the euro and kuna loans, as banks also negotiated unfair contractual provisions on a variable interest rate that is changed by the bank's decision. Well, I'll be grateful for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166986	Thank you, dear fellow Alexic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable President of the Supreme Court, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's almost as close to the end of tonight's debate as I'm going to look very briefly at two things that seem extremely important to me, but first I'd like to say a few general things. The figures mentioned and colleagues before me in this report are good and these figures tell us something, not just for last year so 2018 and not just for 2017, so for these two reports we are discussing tonight, but here we have indicators for the past five years. And it's obvious that over the past five years a large number of backlogs have been solved, which is extremely important because we all know that the courts have been struggling with a large number of cases that haven't been solved for a long time, and now it's started, and I would say big steps forward, and that's what we should be happy about. However, I don't know how it might be that some people don't see it from this report myself, and I'm extremely pleased with it. What I am very sorry about is that we actually heard from tonight's debate or those who are watching and listening might conclude that in all courts in the Republic of Croatia, all judges do nothing. However, most judges are doing their job fairly, and we can see it more or less with all the courts in the number of decisions that have been confirmed. So in second-degree courts, we see how many decisions have been confirmed, how many decisions have been abolished, how many decisions have been remissively resolved, etc. And that's one indicator that tells us about how the judge rightly and most do his job honestly. Of course we have problems in the full judiciary, but it is the task of all of us to solve these problems and to fight them. But what I would briefly refer to, one thing that is in this report, and another that is not here, but my suggestion is to start from the one that is not here and my suggestion to you as the most appropriate recommendation that in the next year's report it is still ours. All public authorities are obliged to employ persons with disabilities, I would like to see in this report how many people with disabilities are employed in all courts because of the total number of employees, that is 8,314 I think, should be employed by about 250 workers, that is 3%. That's because I suppose it's not, maybe it's something, but I don't have that information, it's at an annual level of 3 million and 300,000 kuna that all courts together in the Republic of Croatia need to pay in a special account in the state budget as a compensation for not hiring people with disabilities. I'm just going to say on one example, in one small court, I've calculated, I'm not going to mention which one is, so in one small court, it's 60,000 kuna a year. I think that money can be invested more wisely for other purposes, even when it is paid to a special account in the state budget it is used to encourage employment of persons with disabilities. Here, please, if it's possible, and I think where you're talking about the staff that would be very good, is this how I say it, but you might have a number of people with disabilities, only that nobody keeps records or I'm sure the courts have people with disabilities, but a lot of them don't want to do the art, so they don't want to get that kind of paperwork that would give you the opportunity to put a record of a man like that. There's that, too. But, well, please, if it is possible to prepare such information for next year to know how many courts in the Republic of Croatia have persons with disabilities, and how much they pay in the state budget, or if they have not hired persons with disabilities, have they perhaps used any replacement quota, is that possible, so here is a lot of opportunities, so I ask you nicely for the following year to provide us with those data. The other thing I'd look back on is mistrials. In the last year, your report shows that the misdemeanor courts received the smallest, the smallest number of cases, so the number of cases, the number of cases infringing courts, was in decline. As of 1.1 this year, after judicial reform, we have only two cases left, a specialised criminal court, the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Criminal Court in Split, the rest joined the municipal courts. At the time, there was talk that even at these courts, especially at the Municipal Infringement Court in Zagreb, there was a surplus of judges, because there was a significant small inflow of cases. The judges themselves pointed out that this was not true because they were expecting to increase the inflow of the case after January 1st, which is also what happened, and it is fortunate that the minister of justice is here and they can really thank the secretary of state here and the minister of justice who had the understanding that this did not happen that a number of judges from these courts would not move to municipal courts because now they would have a problem actually no one would have to solve these cases. However, the report also shows that the number of obsoletes has been reduced. In 2018 it is 20%, it still seems to me that it is quite a large number, although I am extremely glad to see that number shrinking. I don't know what you meant in your recommendation when you suggested redefining those two more courts and the High Court of Infringement, do you think that that would make the misdemeanor courts work better, in order to reduce the number of statutes, I'm not sure it would be good, but here's my question for the end of you. Do you think that would improve the work of a misdemeanor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166988	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. I'm setting a break until 9:00, when we get back to work. It's a 20.48 o'clock meeting. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 21.01 HOURS]] Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166990	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Sessa, and here are these colleagues and colleagues who stayed for discussion. I had that break when I had to go out on the field. But what's interesting is that people resent that on such an important subject is a nearly empty assembly, and that's true. I think that the judiciary is one of the biggest problems currently in Croatia, that justice reform is the mother of all reforms and MOST has also offered judicial reform. And our initiative was to release the property cards of the judges publicly. In the end, the government went with such a law, however, it has not yet come to this. It is obvious that one part of it means that the judges do not want to publish their property cards and that it has the support of this ruling structure. And I also warned at my stop that the State Judiciary Council does not really respect the laws that were passed here in the Croatian Parliament, as it calls it, the Judges of the High Criminal Court, based on the old rules which are scandalous. And it just shows the way people who are, I'd say, and I've warned that cream means the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. So they don't respect the laws themselves. We have a fact and today it's come out in the media, so where people who were in the Supreme Court are also using different malfeasances means to exercise some rights, what kind of message is being sent to Croatian citizens, that's what it is, which I think is incomprehensible. Because it is precisely the judges who should show the highest degree of respect for the law of the Republic of Croatia, the legality of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately that is not the case. The dissatisfaction of citizens with the situation in the judiciary is very high, so political corruption and the impression of political corruption of the judiciary, it is shown by research, European research is very high, we are ahead in Europe and simply these are the things that this debate and here in the Croatian Parliament should be warned about. And what's sad is that we couldn't get this debate except to force the ruling and force you to come here to the Croatian Parliament. So we had to collect 31 signatures and we have so many initiatives that we would put here for debate in the Croatian Parliament, we just have to spend our signatures for this month to drag Mr. Sessa here to the Croatian Parliament and discuss the state of justice. We could've, for example. to discuss the Election Law that MOST prepared on reducing the number of MPs, strengthening preferential votes, we could discuss not knowing the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, we could discuss our tax reform that would increase wages, we could discuss other things and we could vote these laws. But no, we had to spend our signature, so the only tool of the opposition in one month means we can discuss one point on the agenda and we had to spend it to drag Mr. Sessa into the Croatian Parliament. And that's what's sad. Yes, that's true, Mr. Sessa, I signed here, Mr. Maras came to me to sign, I didn't know, he didn't bring me what I was signing, I don't know what I was going to get, then I begged him to bring me, to see what I was signing, he said a debate on the state of justice, and then I said he could. Here's my signature when Sessa already doesn't want me to come by, so I'm happy to give it up. So it's really, it's a real state and the situation isn't even small, although this was a joke here now, the situation isn't for laughing, the situation is very serious. So many messages, so many e-mails I get from people because of the situation in the judiciary, because of the behavior of our judges, because of the long-term process, because of the statutes of limitations that are completely, completely inexplicable. I'll never forget how much resistance he was, I've been sitting with Mr. Bačić, and for six months we've been arguing about it or five months if MOST will get a member of the State Judiciary Council. There was so much resistance to fresh blood entering the DSV, so here, right here, in an interview, I said that DSV was the source of corruption. Of course, DSV is the source of everything bad that happens in the Croatian judiciary because these people choose and improve judges. These people frame people who make these scandalous verdicts. And I'm behind it, that's logic, that's pure logic saying that those who are humanizing and we know that it's the key to every policy and then the key to the justice system itself is that they're responsible for the situation, that they're responsible for the situation in the system. And no one can talk me out of it. I brought it up at the stop, one idea, so they all jumped on that idea, after that, I would say one scandalous act of a judge to Mr. Zivkovic who lost two sons in Vukovar where she told him to suffer in silence or that his own grief meant that he was doing it in silence and not in the assembly, so it touched me so much that I had to react fiercely and I said that all the judges from the former system should be retired. Then they jumped those from the left position, so as already done, one part of the judges in the former system left, now these new ones, however, are retired means we need to get rid of them, so the whole of that frame and then reintroduce them a little bit. Until our own, until our judiciary is independent until it's free, it means we can't have guys like Ivan Vrdoljak sitting in the government instead of these guys in jail. If we had an independent judiciary, so guys like Ivan Vrdoljak would be in jail, we wouldn't be mediators in this union-mandating process, meaning between teachers, teachers and professors and governments. So to us, Ivan Vrdoljak is a mediator between teachers, teachers and professors and governments, so this man would be the one in the place where he should be, but the judiciary is the way he is, the police are the way he is, the repressive machine is, here I am reading now the media, a high-ranking official of the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior means driving this car at a high speed nothing happens to him, send me cops respond, react to that. Well, that's what it says about our entire and repressive system and justice and everything that's going on. And people are looking for a meeting, they want to see that there's someone who's going to warn you of that condition. And Mr. Sessa wonders that we said that we had to collect the signatures that he came here, that we had to collect 31 signatures of the opposition MPs that we had a debate about the situation in the judiciary, that I would even drag you here in front of the council, but what is sad and what I would say in part means he's adjudicating you, and the guilt shifts to us is the fact that here 10 is now discussing the situation in the judiciary because there's a full assembly here, that full Mark's square means both against the government and against this situation in the judiciary, then something would change, and you're actually waiting here for this debate to end, you're laughing at all of us because you know that nothing can happen to you. But no one burned until dawn, no one burned until dawn. What I wouldn't like, I wouldn't want the people to take justice into their own hands, if it happens to us, then it's not going to be good at all. MOST advocates that we have an effective and independent judiciary, not that the street decides on who is guilty, who is not guilty means that the street solves problems in the judiciary, but you have contributed to such an atmosphere by your actions. It means, by its actions and by its inaction, the decisions you have made and the personneling you have made. Well, what we can even talk about when one of the key people in the Croatian judiciary has a nickname for you in the media, I read articles called, the media says Đuro Kesa, not Đuro Sessa, but Đuro Kesa, so what we're talking about, so what we're talking about. So the media is writing it, so here I am reading in the media, now I've watched this one before the debate, how, what we're going to talk about, and that's the perception of the Croatian judiciary. And it's not a fellow Bull, I know it may be treason, but it's not something to laugh about, it's things to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166991	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. I agree with you that at least those signatories that are 31, and now only three are supposed to be in this debate, but unfortunately that's how they must have other obligations. We have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166992	Mr. Grmoj, exactly as Croatia's biggest problem is the judiciary, and under command responsibility is Mr. Đuro Sessa, and this is confirmed by Mr. Mamić's personal friend as he said and who knows everything about him, intimate things other than individual ones and expects.../incomprehensible/... I asked him that and trust me to a colleague of Grmoj and colleagues so that I would not be in politics that the judiciary solved the money that disappeared in '91. I have never received an account, I have filed criminal charges against the CNB for this, against Vujčić and the stability council used by Todorovic without cover, 10 billion kunas, no more, and the war crimes of his colleagues, the Grmoja will never be solved. Why? Because Shakespeare's policy is made up of justice, it was much more important to arrest Croatian generals, arrest, locate, transfer than to solve the war crimes of Velcos Serbians, and that's why I'm with the police.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166993	...my colleague Bulj. My colleague Grmo's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166994	Mr. Bulj, if you've listened to my debate, you could have heard that the people who brought us into this situation, who have excavated the situation in the judiciary, certainly won't solve our problems. So it won't be the problem of processing war crimes that solves HDZ who voted on the city council to set up this Cyrillic plate in Vukovar. Then HDZ voted, and now they're awake, so these are the people who excavated means all of our justice, who allowed war crimes not to be punished. Here's Mr. Bukarica in the consultations here with Mr. Sess, he's in the consulates, he's not so, so what, so your task isn't here right now, your job is to make it possible here with the vice president of the assembly that I can discuss freely, not that you are in a panic here consulting what you are going to and how you are going to do. That's not your job. So, Mr. Bull, those who are responsible, they're the ones who are all excavated. But I said we'll figure it out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We'll figure it out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166995	Dear comrade Grumoja, please stick to the debate, and do not say what anyone here at the Presidential Table should do, I am here to lead the session and I will warn someone if he is unworthy and does not like his activities to this high home. We're moving on to the next replica of the esteemed colleague Marin Skibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166996	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Grmoja I agree with much of your debate and I agree with what you said that you are actually disappointed that very few representatives are here today, the judiciary is really an essential topic, Croatian citizens are very unhappy with the Croatian real system, but what concerns me is that there is no media at all here today. Otherwise, when it comes to a circus, when it comes to individual MPs, the media is talking about it. However, when the issue of the specific problems that Croatia has is being discussed, there is no camera here and no one is interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166997	Thank you. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166998	So unfortunately, but fellow Scybola and ruling means they decided to put this item in the afternoon, or evening hours. It was their goal to have no media in this debate. So we had to collect the signatures to drag Mr. Sessa to the Parliament and they, so here's Vice President Brkic, President Jandrokovic put this debate in these hours. It means their interest, they do not want to discuss problems in the Croatian judiciary. Why? They themselves want to give an answer. Vice-President Brkic himself should give an answer as to why he does not want to discuss the judiciary in the parliament at 9.30 in the morning but to discuss it at 9.30 in the evening. He needs to answer that question. If I were the vice president, or President of the Parliament, it would be debated in the morning of the early morning on the state of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u166999	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. From the MOST, Vice-President Petrov, a respected counterpart, has not objected to a single word regarding the plan of the debate. So if he does not decide as vice-president, then neither does the other vice-president and it is known who determines the agenda of the debate according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167000	Dear Vice President Brkic, counterpart Petrov, Vice President Petrov is the vice president of the opposition quota, you are from the ruling quota. And if you have just admitted that you have no influence on the HDZ events or relations in the ruling coalition, nor on the agenda, I do not know what you are doing in HDZ anymore. I don't want to affect anything in the Most, I'd get out of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167001	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. First of all, you didn't call on an article that was injured, so please don't abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I was just trying to explain to you that according to the Rules of Procedure, the agenda is determined by the President of the Parliament. That's what happened when the President of the Parliament was Mr. Bozo Peter. So please... Read the Rules of Procedure and you will know it very well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have and please do not abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167002	Thank you very much. A colleague of Grmoy injured Article 238 by insulting the chairman. My friend Grmoy, you'd go where you're going, but you don't seem to have a place to go, so you're still in the MOST from which it's already gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167003	I thank my esteemed colleagues, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and I ask you not to disrespect your actions in any way if others already do so by respected fellow MPs. Comrade Grmoy, you've already had one violation of the Rules of Procedure, unfounded, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167004	So the violation of Article 238, I'm going to stay where he's fighting for truth and justice, so last time he was, against all of you who are on the side of this situation in the judiciary. And you colleagues of Jelkovac, probably because you didn't leave yourself here to defend Mr. Sess and the situation in the Croatian judiciary, and I thank God, here's my back, so I'll always have my Ines, Marco and Miro, I don't need anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167005	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmo. On the basis of Article 239, I give you a warning. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167006	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya, the fact is that for two years we have been waiting for this report and the fact is that many important things are being discussed in the Parliament. And even when we propose something, for example, as we have proposed to amend the Electoral Law for the President of the Republic of Croatia to have the ability to monitor and choose, be careful what the HDZ is up to. He says it can't be changed because it's an election year. And that is what those who changed the Law on Elections to the European Parliament and the financing of election promotion for the European elections a week before the vote was called. You are saddened by the way HDZ resonates and which is why people are disappointed with both this state and the judiciary and with everything that is at this point in action. And that's why I'm sure there's gotta be a change of heart. It's not what it is anymore. You'll see, next year things will change deeply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167007	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167008	Comrade Maras, in one agreement, things need to be changed, changes will happen already in these presidential elections and perhaps you have some moral integrity to discuss the situation in the judiciary but one good part of your colleagues does not. Mr. Miljanic is a member of the DSV, Mr. Grbin supported Chief State Attorney Jelinic and I would not be so optimistic about the changes that will happen with the possible SDP victory. I wouldn't be so optimistic. I was here against Jelinic, and I argue that the chief state attorney may, perhaps by ignorance, be dangerous to support corruption in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and for that I have evidence and arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167009	Thanks to my colleague, Grmoy, sleep tight, don't worry about any needs and changes, it'll be all right. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I will also talk today about the judiciary from my perspective and what I followed, because I was involved in some of the crime processes in Croatian football, so I will look back on that part. So we live in a country where fans or cheerleader groups instead of cheerleading, they're dealing with criminal exposure in their clubs. Imagine that in England or Germany fans camp outside their stadium, so they boycott their club's games, to warn of crime at their club. This is what fans warned about years before the indictment against Zdravko Mamić proved true. Do you think some of the guys from New Zagreb who had high school knew about the crime in their club and the State's Attorney's office didn't know that? And so, the case began to be resolved only when foreign institutions were involved, so there was no return and then we got an epilogue of what we have now, and that was that I was a month before Zdravko Mamic fled to the neighbouring country, and he referred the question to the DORH whether measures were taken against the defendants of Zdravko Mamić, since he went to Rome to solve one transfer and that even some media followed me with that logical question and I didn't get any answer. After that verdict, he fled to the neighbouring country and what the paradox was greater, so the same Zdravko Mamic accused the Supreme Court president, so serious accusations were against which the Supreme Court president did not react. From all of this can be concluded only one thing which is that he was deliberately released and wanted to return him on purpose because he probably would have decided to expose certain people in his anger or in his own anger or in his own that some had betrayed him or that he was the only one to blame and were very many people involved. And my personal opinion and the fan's opinion that it's all part of one big plan. And after everything happened, after we have cases of cases of people going into obsolescence, that the judiciary is what we have, that messages are being sent to Vukovar to complain in silence, the Croatian judiciary has decided to deal with cheerleading groups again. So as you know, there is a new Law on Fans in preparation and what we can see in the public debate, that it is hypocritical and scandalous if it is adopted in that form. So the law does not deal with hooligans but deals with fans, so according to the bill, it would punish people who smoke more than 0.5% of alcohol although alcohol is poured into the streams in the solemn lodges, although the clubs that are the organizers of the game, the fan zones in which alcohol is properly poured, but the only ones who should be affected are fans because they are not a controlled group of systems and individual parties but are independent people with their own thoughts and drivers are social change as they were in communism, as they were in the '90s when they fought for the name of their club, even today. In no country is called the National Security Council for fans and just to mention that the only victim on Croatian football courts was never about the hands of fans, thank God, but because of the bad infrastructure in Croatian football stadiums, which was in Zadar. So we have one hypocrisy from the Croatian judiciary, and it's obviously going towards fans like we can be the drivers of social change and what amazes us, therefore, in the bill itself, and I see that it's going to start in that heat, and that's going to be interpreted as an invitation to violence through some songs, although fans sing neatly at their stadium "In battle, in battle, for their people" so I'd say whether it's an invitation to violence or whether it's an example. Marseljeza, a French anthem calling for violence and I fear that the repression against the cheerleading groups and I repeat again, against those who cheer, who do not fight, will follow in the Croatian judiciary and that they are the next target of the Croatian judiciary. So, the social groups that look at it on the side, so we can see it on social networks, no longer have patience for such things, so the anger of the citizens is great, people are getting more and more organized, one of those cases is Skalamera in Rijeka where people actually went out on the streets and in a peaceful protest showed what they think of the Croatian judiciary, I expect more of these actions, only the more problems accumulate, I fear that the protests of the peaceful will no longer be but that people will no longer have patience for the Croatian judiciary, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167011	Thank you, colleague of Sladolev. We've got replicas, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167012	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague of Sladolev, as I understand you, Mr. Zdravko Mamić said Mr. Sessi was corrupt. Mr. Sessa didn't sue him. And here is the question, why Zdravko Mamic is not extradited to Croatia. Because he would sing. Because who knows what he has on both the Supreme Court and the political establishment, what he has on the President of the Republic. Those are the real questions to be asked. And how people who need to safeguard the integrity and dignity of this country and then even their integrity have put themselves in a position to be with such a man. A man who says in Belgrade that it is necessary to restore Yugoslavia, that he loves Serbian clubs, a man who is a great patriot and a Croat in Croatia, who only cares about his own bag.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167013	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Sladolev, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167014	So, dear colleague Grmoja, so I was the same when Mr. Mamic said it was not surprising, but I was surprised by the more reactions Mr. Sesse had not responded to that reaction, I think it was someone publicly said I would probably react. I think that the current political elite Zdravko Mamić outside of Croatia is the best fit, so I also said that in my debate, I think it was planned. So that suits both sides and Zdravko Marić and those he might expose. We'll see how that happens, this case develops, but I think he'll stay in BiH and end up there as a manager and he's too big to have, his own book, in which some names are allowed to come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167015	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague of Ines Strenja. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167016	There are two things that should now be pointed out by a colleague, who are actually the biggest slap this country can get that we have a report, such an important report that we finally forced the Assembly to come out of our signatures, which is that a colleague of Sessa, not a colleague of mine, is not my colleague, he's a reporter, Judge Sessa only referred to our questions and to all our discussions, although he was told that he could no longer be involved and we are below his level. It's something that's absolutely, absolutely embarrassing for this House. So it's even more embarrassing that the President of the Constitutional Court, as you know, has been convicted of taking salaries that don't belong to her. And these are answers to what kind of judiciary today, a court that does not respect the highest legislative authority and judiciary that does not even respect its basic legality when the President of the Constitutional Court has to go to complain, complain and get a slap to confirm to her the power of judgment that she has taken wages that do not belong to her. That's our judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167017	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167018	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Sessa's silence is the best answer to the Croatian judiciary. So I think the citizens see that silence itself speaks therefore more than a thousand so words because in fact he cannot answer our accusations because there are no arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167019	Thank you. We're on our way. The debate, the esteemed colleague Ante Pranic is gone. Dear counterpart Goran Aleksic, final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives and SNAGA. Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167020	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Judge Sessa, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll sum up what I said today. Well, first I was talking about how the Franak case has been going on for the past two years, three years, and then I was talking about the need to resolve some more legal issues, and I am now stressing that these legal issues need to be resolved primarily for the legal certainty of consumers who are going to sue banks. There are 150,000 people who have negotiated CHF loans and another 200 thousand people who have negotiated euro and kuna loans with variable interest rates that change by decision of the bank and they need legal certainty. In order to obtain that legal certainty, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has yet to resolve the outstanding legal issues that come from the Franak case. So one of those outstanding legal issues is the question of the integrity of the CHF contract. There are a lot of lawsuits where consumers have asked to establish that the CHF contract is worthless, in addition to seeking to establish payments per interest per currency. There are a large number of people who want to sue that the contract is worthless and there are a large number of people who will sue at risk without knowing how it will go. The Supreme Court must resolve this issue by either review or review procedure or whatever. So I said there was a review at the Supreme Court under 4118/19 in which the question of the integrity of the contract was raised and in which the lawyer representing the party asked the issue first to be posted as a previous issue to the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg. So I expect that on this legal issue, the sooner the proceedings were launched in the EU court, the decision on the issue in the judicial council itself, in which President Katarina Buljan, rapporteur Slavko Pavkovic and members of the Council Aleksandar Peruzovic, Viktorija Lovrić and Branko Medančić, therefore the same council that decided on the audits of banks in the Franak case. I also noted that there is a limitation of claims from the County Court in Rijeka on its decision where the County Court in Rijeka has responded positively that there are no outdated claims, but the defendant complained that the ruling should be abolished, namely the County Court in Rijeka, not to accept the Supreme Court's understanding that in the event of any contractual provision or contract being found in any event that the prosecutor has the right to obtain only the last five years of claims from the appeal. The County Court in Rijeka has never accepted such a view of the Supreme Court and here at the Supreme Court is now one such audit under the designation REV-X-634/18. She's been in the Supreme Court since last year. And I think now is some time to decide. Third, a very important legal issue is the matter of mathematics for converted loans. Namely 55,000 people have converted CHF loans into eurocredits and we have been given the right to sue on the basis of revision 2868/18, the Supreme Court has said that, you can go to court, you can determine your rights but now follow the Supreme Court to determine what our material rights resulting from and this will either resolve by reviewing one of these cases or by more than one of these cases of audits or will now settle in the review procedure which has been applied for, today it has been published, so the Paz Court has filed a request for a review procedure requiring that the conversion be determined by nothing because the conversion of the non-existent currency has been carried out, the currency clause CHF is zero, so what I do not exist and I expect within 120 days or that it is resolved by this review procedure or before one of the audits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167021	Thank you, dear colleague Alexic. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, esteemed colleague Marin Škibola. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167022	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here we are in these late hours a little bit at the end of this debate. Mr. Sessa, a lot of things have been said here today. I'm sorry you didn't get a little bit interactively involved in this debate anymore. I'm sorry you didn't answer certain specific questions from the MPs, but I can see that you signed up here at the end on behalf of the rapporteur, but the question is how much will you be able to answer all the questions that have been asked here? I'd have a lot more to say, I still have a lot of information and data, but I'll read some of the things that the citizens wrote to me and they told me to ask you. A citizen asks me when you will prevent the selective leak of information to the media and thus enable the legality, secrecy and fairness of the proceedings in the investigation and in the courts. That's one relevant question, you might notice that certain information girls and that's not what I've now noticed or some citizen just, they've noticed some other people in essential functions. I believe that these are major failures of the Croatian judiciary and that it is simply an anarchical state where such information is being used to create a public change towards someone who may still be, who is not even guilty until the process is over. Another question asked me by a citizen who told me to ask you, says how many criminal charges you filed as Supreme Court President for corruption in the judiciary. He believes we should have insight into this, as Supreme Court President, so he wants to know how many of you have personally filed criminal charges. And here, more citizens have been sending me some questions, some of them aren't entirely meant for you, but they're tied to the judiciary. A gentleman asked me how it was possible to carry out a man with 2,000 kuna and was also tried in a verdict and was not informed of the trial because he had not received any notice, he was told that he should have watched the panel in the court where the notice was informed. In 2.5 months, all of his assets were usurped up, which he had hard-earned during his life. These are people's experiences. A gentleman asked me to ask you how you comment on the fact that the street has begun to exercise justice and how much you feel responsible for it. I see there's been more and more protests in Zadar when we remember the Daruvarac case and now this last protest. So these are some questions, here, a citizen asked me if you could explain how a court can execute a house based on a 15% loan agreement signed under threat and coercion from business partners. The other asked me when you'd all resign together, so that's where there's one defetism, people are unhappy. Here are the same questions about CHF loans, so one asked me when you'll reach the verdict of the loan contract CHF, the citizen asks a precise answer about the period when it might be, to him it's quite important, etc., etc. I've got some other things I'd like to say here, but I'm not gonna make it. The fact is that we have a lot of judges in the EU and we are at the top of this quantity of judges, we have 58 first-degree courts, a lot of exhibitions, so many presidents of the courts, so there are both department and deputy presidents, etc., who actually don't have the office of judges, so they don't solve cases, but they are there for the sake of function, but that number doesn't maintain quality and my opinion is that they are not needed in such a number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167023	Thank you, dear fellow Skiboli. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167024	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Commissioners of the HDZ at the Supreme Court, Mr. Sessa, here after these questions of the Scybols, some of the whole debate of fellow Scybols, it is evident that here I will not have a single replica of opportunities, I had three so laid down in business, that Mr. Sessa simply, that the judiciary is a visible cancer of the early Croatian society, you have brought citizens into the most difficult situation and this affects both the economic and economic situation. The simple judiciary served for the purpose of the executive mafia, we have an example of what judges were simply on the side of them, that is, on the subject of RBA cooperatives, the law passed unanimously here in the assembly of judges went to the European Court of Justice so that you keep your mouth shut about it, no matter what this court has done. We have a street, people are rising to the streets, it's a problem, we've seen this problem in Rijeka, where Rijeka has risen to the side.../incomprehensible/..., we have a problem Daruvarc in Zadar, we have a problem in recent days also citizens with the right to rise up about the rape of a girl, we have these many, many problems that occur. We have a problem in Split where people also raise their voice and the whole Republic of Croatia a key problem, the number one problem is the judiciary. Justice, which is not for the purpose of justice, but for the purpose of certain stakeholders, whether on the side of the executive mafia, teleoperate, never, against workers, against honest employers, against all those who advocate corruption. At this point, Mr. Sessa, you have the command responsibility, you have to answer all these questions, you have brought as the principle of that judiciary that the judge is making fun of the man who gave two sons in Vukovar, with Mr. Marijan who simply did not know how the judge told him to regret his sons in solitaryness, you are not answering any questions, but I understand you have come to the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia and for the purpose of it, it is easier for you to judge some decision of 50-60 thousand kuna punishment on the order of Mr. Jandrokovic's President, and you have reacted without delay. It is the same policy represented by Prime Minister Plenkovic, but is also visible in one institution, which is an institution to prevent conflicts of interest. Also the same thing in this case you've treated the parliamentary representative, and because of some benign application as he says he named the ambassador's godmother, then he also mentioned me that he would name me up in Brexit we see that it's a little tangled up again, maybe it would be good to mention me again some time maybe Juncker and Johnson and solve that problem if he named me. So you hit institutions, you degrade institutions, you're the problem of these institutions, you're the biggest friend of Mamic's, and you're the only one that he's told his biggest friend, you're his only guardian angel, you're his guardian angel. Why? It suits you that he's not in the Republic, is if he sings it will be a huge problem. Why haven't all the measures been taken so that the people who are being persecuted are being measured, this temporary measure that they can't escape? That's what was warned, here's a colleague of Sladolev's talking about. War crimes, war crimes. As long as Shex is the man who spoke on behalf of Mesic and Sanader to locate, arrest, transfer, prosecute, condemn, anything he hasn't said, while he's using godfathers to connect his colleague Sess from the president of the HZD Club to the supreme, to the constitutional court of his godfather, you must dance like that, you must, do you not. What did you say? Say it out loud. Are you threatening me? Something he said, I don't know. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] You heard and you're fine. You're just playing a little dumb. Something he said. [[No, he didn't say anything to you...]] Now he was, something he said, let him repeat, and if my hair was bad, [[Intruder: Continue the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167025	We have the final word of a representative of the SDP Club, a respected colleague of the Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167026	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, at the end of this debate, we want to say a few facts and the position of the club that has already told the SDP president in its opening speech, which is that justice needs one rightful reform, literally a new start to restore the trust of Croatian citizens in their work, right, in situations which unfortunately burden them daily, I would say so, somehow, the crowd of people departing from Croatia because of this feeling of injustice and inequality that is ruling today in Croatia. It's amazing, so here's where we've been discussing it for a long time that Mr. Sessa didn't feel the need to go out once, but he's waiting for us all to settle for him to keep his closing word. So let's say that's after all this stuff that's been said here, so I think it would be normal for Mr. Sessa to have answered some things to get into a debate and controversy with citizens who are justifiably unhappy with certain things in the judiciary. And I'm going to repeat another question so they don't stay in the air, so it doesn't happen to be forgotten and what we've been asking from the SDP here during the debate. The issue of a judge in Zadar, a strict procedure, so Mr. Grbin asked whether Mr. Sessa was finally thinking of applying that power in situations that are clearly questionable and which, as with Mr. Turudić, everyone would have started because it was clear in themselves. And if it had happened in a political party like the SDP, we would have reacted internally and they would have said that it was unacceptable not to stop at the call of the police, that it was unacceptable to ignore such a warrant from the other side of the court, that it wasn't reportedly received, or that he didn't receive any calls, but that's something where a judge who should be an example should not be found in such a situation at all. And Mr. Sessa's dead cold says no, no, everything's fine. We can hear a lot of things, that old friends have reconciled, that it's rivalry at the moment of the Supreme Court's candidacy behind them, that HDZ has now ironed it all out. And on that side, of course, people don't feel justice in the Republic of Croatia. So the question is whether Mr. Sess is finally going to be deigned, for obvious cases he's using his right to launch a tight procedure. Another thing that is absolutely clear, so Mr. Sessa must give convincing answers to certain issues that are being raised in public. So I'm not going to say what anyone said now, but when most of the public finds that the answers are unconvinced or question questions about individuals who have little to do with the law, who have escaped from the Croatian judiciary and when it remains hanging in the air, that's not good. So what I can do is I can repeat one more thing that's in public today to keep it also recorded, so in these presidential elections we choose and what kind of justice we want. So the President of the Republic has great powers in terms of the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, or the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court. So Presidential candidate Zoran Milanovic expects a person who will be a solid character, who will not be courted by individual parties, interesting lobbys, but will perform the duty in the way he thinks he should perform or perform it with character. If you want dear citizens to keep the judiciary like this in the election for the President of the Republic, you will vote for Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, if you want to change the judiciary you have the opportunity to choose those candidates who can provide it, is certainly a person with such attitude and with such character Zoran Milanovic. I'm sure people will recognize that. So we can't let more things like this happen in the judiciary than they've ever done before. The HDZ unfortunately put its paw on the judiciary 20 years ago and won't let it go now. This is seen in many examples, unfortunately it is also seen in the President of the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167027	I thank my colleague Maras. I see there's been a slight campaign for an independent candidate for president of the state. We have a final word on behalf of the rapporteur, dear colleague President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Djuro Sess. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167028	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy, Your Honor. I didn't answer because in the last report it was so suggested that it was spoken in the end and I could, there was no problem. As for my coming here or as you said you dragged me here, it's not my responsibility, I came when you called me. The report was filed with 1.5, and I could've come here on 2.5 that's how the Parliament decided. So, I'm afraid, and I'm sorry that these things are being transferred to my responsibility. As for the higher issues concerning the appointment of judges, the Supreme Court president does not appoint judges. He doesn't even participate in the work of a judge council that evaluates judges. Therefore, the presidents of the courts have no role to play in the appointment of judges. And so if the Parliament wants to discuss the appointment of judges then it should amend the Law on the State Judicial Council so that the President of the DSV as well as the President of the Supreme Court comes here and submits a report to the Assembly on the work of the DSV. Therefore, I have no responsibility on that side. As far as specific cases are concerned, I cannot answer them because it is simply prohibited by the Court Act and given my position as Supreme Court President, any word I have in relation to the assessment of a case could be misunderstood not by the judges but could be understood safely by the parties involved in the proceedings. As far as personal insults are concerned, I won't answer them because I don't think this High House deserves it. As for the case in Swiss francs, I can, of course, suggest to judges and council members that they take things into work as I do whenever it feels that a particular object has its own weight and that it does not only apply to specific parties and I think the judicial council that has these two cases that you mentioned and which I have written down will take into account. But once again, I point out that the President of the Court can't order any judges to do what, what, and when they're going to judge because it's a matter of trial. As far as the security agency's concerned, it's been launched, it's one factory. So the head of security intelligence here at the Security Committee said that it wasn't true, that there was no such report at all, that it repeated to me, so it's another information or one information that's being withdrawn through the media space, and how many times it's repeated, it's always being said about it, so it doesn't exist. And I don't know that it exists and he personally told me that there is no such information and that there is no such report. As for the pressure on the work of the courts and questions of the Ministry of Health, such a memo has indeed come to the Supreme Court and the Minister of Health has received from me the answer that this is an inappropriate way of addressing the court and that it spreads a very bad message leaves to all those who participate in the procedure. I received such a letter from a lawyer representing some doctors in Osijek, so in order to be under some kind of pressure, it is not true at all, on the contrary, when such a letter came, I reacted very sharply to it. As for Marina Pirovac, I'll check on the subject. As far as the impression is concerned, if any impression is concerned about the work of the courts, then it is a judge and I'm afraid that this debate, don't be angry, contributes to the collapse of the system and that the judges who solve the millions and 600,000 a year are certainly not people who are worthy of any contempt, and if we talk about them, we still have to appreciate that work because it is not, it is a great effort that is in every case being introduced because there is no object that would be irrelevant. As for access to the Supreme Court and these doubts about the new audit system, it has precisely liberalised access to the Supreme Court, has only put the Supreme Court in a position to decide on the things that deserve the Supreme Court to decide and to even the case-law. It is similar with the establishment of a High Criminal Court because now the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is a Court of Appeal in Criminal Matters, and that is exactly what the Constitution did not require him to be, so he should not be dealing with facts and therefore the entire criminal department of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has stood behind the proposal to establish a High Criminal Court. There is no need for the High Civil Court because the Court of Appeal in Civil Affairs is a county court or a High Commercial Court and in administrative matters the High Administrative Court therefore decides on complaints and facts and the Supreme Court does not decide on the facts in that branch of the trial. That's why there's no need to establish a high court of law. Otherwise, as far as meetings are concerned, in Art. 27 The Law on Courts states that meetings are held only with representatives of county courts, so that's what the law says. Why, then, the answer to the question why there is no representative of the High Court of Commerce, because it does not appear in the law. As for the conflict over asking the previous question and the colleague who asked the question, I don't see what that question has to do with its potential or which I have to admit, I didn't know, but she asked a question, she could have gotten any answer to that question by asking it, by herself, doesn't bring it into some dependent position. As for the strict responsibilities, so in the particular case you mentioned here, the judge under the constitution cannot be called to account, for the decision or opinion he expressed in the judgment. Therefore, the judge’s decision, which was later amended, cannot be the reason for his firm responsibility because it was then that it meant that someone other than the court and not the second degree of the court, would decide on what kind of decision it might be, in this case, the one who would initiate a tight procedure. And as for tight procedures, 150 tight procedures were initiated, 12 judges were resolved, based on DSV's decision, and a large part of the judges left the system when a tight trial was launched against them. I would repeat once again with regard to the disputed decision that detention is not a punishment, that detention is a procedural means to ensure the breach of criminal proceedings and they are always a minor measure if it is possible, therefore, the weight of the action itself cannot be a reason for detention and neither of us knows nor can know what is in this particular case really,... Circumstances taken into account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for perceptions, of course, it must be the judges' fault, but I think it's all the others who talk about the judiciary based on emotions and not on facts, I'd like to take one judgment once, that it's being evaluated, and that on the basis of such a single verdict any one says, here's the judge stupid, no idea, he's wronged the law, he's corrupt, etc. So let's talk once about concrete things because I really think that judgments should be spoken of, especially when they are powerful, because then a public debate can contribute to some improvement in the functioning of the judicial authority. As for my proposals, which are assessed to be this mild, they are because I have taken into account the budgetary constraints that exist within the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the budget given for the judiciary, so I have proposed measures that do not require some large budget expenditure because it is more or less known to all of us that in all the budget items should be saved and what should really be done, it is to invest in the infrastructure of the courts and I hope that it will be done for a while. As far as the case goes... I'll take a look at what this is about, the first time I've heard about this problem for five years not to act on one subject. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the verdict is concerned, regarding the criminal proceedings, I don't know about the case, I hope there's some rational explanation, but there's no reason really not to publish the verdict that's been made, written, sent to the parties. As regards the case-law and unification of court practice, the Supreme Court has since I started organising meetings with the representatives of the lower courts precisely to discuss issues that do not follow the audit procedure or the appeal procedure at the Supreme Court. These meetings are held, these meetings discuss certain issues and all these conclusions are on the Supreme Court website as well as any other decisions of the Supreme Court, with a tool search engine. So, if they are available to anyone who wants to find a decision, they will find a case law, and these conclusions are published in particular. As far as the issues of change or issues of limitations and the right to seek compensation are concerned, the current position of the Supreme Court is that in such contracts, seeking the refund of what has been paid, it is obsolete for 5 years. Therefore, in order for this practice to change, the decision of the Judicial Council should first be taken in such a way as to go counter-existant practice and two, in that case, that the department of the Supreme Court should reach a conclusion which will change the case-law. So, the way to here is far away. There are doctrinal reasons why this practice is the way it is, and there are, of course, other reasons that should make the practice change what's in that review and it's written, only that I'm here now saying it's going to be one way or another, it would be extremely unserious of me. As for the employment of disabled people, thank you for this suggestion, I will ask for these data, as far as I know from some experience disabled people are employed in courts, but of course there is now a general restriction on the employment of employees and subsistence therefore, it may be one reason why this right and this special attention to disabled people is not sufficiently devoted to the courts, but I will try to examine it and at least, I do not decide on every receipt but only in my court, but I suggest that the presidents of the courts take care of it. As for leaks of information, the court does not leak information, I am sure, because the court is not interested in leaking information in the case because the court's interest is to conduct proceedings in a stable and reasonable and cold atmosphere. Any leak of information that draws one media attention, to be gentle, doesn't match any judge. So, I'm sure the court's information doesn't leak. Now, in this last case, the judge who conducted the trial filed a criminal report for leaks, so before they came to him. As far as criminal charges are concerned, I didn't file any criminal charges because it wasn't my job to file a criminal charges against someone else. As far as the question is concerned, it seems to me that, as I think about the street judging, I have already said that several times, the courts are based on the Constitution, the law and international contracts. Why is the street and why people went out into the streets, part of it, and because they don't have that one, that one knowledge of it in a particular case of character, which is detention. And it always comes down to whether or not some perpetrator of a crime was put in custody. The judicial authority's reaction to a criminal offence or any situation needs to be investigated, and it should only be commented by the court in a verdict, so where it will determine someone's guilt and someone's civic responsibility or something else to say who's right. It's only then that we can tell if the court acted the right way. For only one illustration last year, the Supreme Court in 8 cases of 15 he had in connection with domestic violence where the victims were women raised the fines. Therefore, if we can say how the judiciary or the Supreme Court responds to the question of violence, he reacts by sharpening the penalties brought by lower courts. So that's information, and the impression that it's not so I don't know what it's based on, which is why, if you look at specific data, on what grounds this impression is created. I don't know, and I mean every judge in Croatia, because every day the judge comes to the courtroom, parties come to him, and that one animosity, and that one enmity towards the judges and the judicial authority feels day after day. But I don't think it's just a judge's task to bring things to a cold, reasonable level, but to anyone who influences or has something to say about it. As far as statutes are concerned, they are reduced to a minimum compared to statistics. Last year, there were 3 outdated in county courts and 20 statutes in all municipal courts. So that's relative to the number of solved cases very little. Of course, for every aged judge, he must write an indication of why antiquity occurred. What's the problem with statutes is the inaccessibility of the defendants or the defendants of justice because they're somewhere else, which was a particular reason.../incomprehensible/... but in any case I'm going to ask for a statement from the President of the Court of Justice about the course of the proceedings and the reasons for the statute of limitations. If there is a personal responsibility of a judge who has made a decision on limitations, and has not just inherited the subject from someone else who led the case, then of course there is his responsibility. But if that is not the case, and if the proceedings show that the judge has done everything he can and everything that is available to him not to get to an old age, and yet the responsibility of the judge is out of date. Our system of appointment of judges, excluding the President of the Courts from deciding on human rights issues, is a standard that is mostly in all international documents of the Council of Europe and the EU and if there are, if and when there are errors in this system, let us not change the system but let us discuss that the system is better, that it adapts to what is expected to be a stable constitutional order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167029	I thank you for your final statement to the President of the Supreme Court. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167030	Thank you very much. Here I would finally say that indeed after Mr. Djura Sese was to buy barrels for honey and milk, one barrel for honey and milk is in the judiciary of all flowers. What you're saying is there's absolutely no Mr. Sess with reality and I'm ready to get a warning now because I didn't say a single article because this is absolutely what he said because all the broken articles and the judiciary is a number one problem and really running honey and milk, we just need you. The barrels to get, Mr. Vice President, [[Upadica Brkić: Thank you, colleague.]] So we can pour in honey and milk. [[Upadica Brkić: Kologa Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167031	Thank you. You know very well that you have three replicas and that you cannot replicate, so you went in a correct way and based on it. 239 I give you a warning. We have a replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167032	Thank you very much. Mr. Sesa, you haven't answered a single question, the question that was fundamentally asked can I accept that it will not comment on the actions that are under way but you could comment on how you see that the great behavior of Judge Turudić, you could comment on it, and you didn't say that either. The second thing, you didn't say as you assess the dependence between the HOK and the DIP member and the Supreme Court vice president who was in a business relationship with the HOK and the president of the HOK was a candidate in the local mayoral election of Krapina-Zagorje County, so neither is that, that's no offense, that's a fact, and you didn't comment on that either. You didn't comment on how you set yourself up, and you mentioned the Constitution. I would recommend that you read article 76. The Constitution so that you may see What does it say? [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] You didn't comment on any of the things I said here, nothing to do with the insults, it has to do with me, it has to do with the facts. [[Upadica Brkić: Dear colleague Maras.]] You have the option here now to comment again [[Upadica Brkić: A colleague of Maras.]] Because you have the right to respond to the replica, thank you very much. [[Upadica Brkić: A colleague of Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167033	Comrade Maras, your time is up, please. Answer, dear colleague Djuro Sesa, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167034	Thank you very much. I didn't answer because I was quick and hard to answer that question. So as far as the DIP is concerned, this report is about the work of the judicial authority, the DIP is someone else entirely. As far as I'm concerned, I've repeated it repeatedly in public and in writing, there's no reason for judges to run the election. In a country that is 30 years old, there's no reason for judges to be on the electoral committee. While they are in the electoral commission, they decide collectively and therefore, Judge Kontrec is a member of the Court of Honor, therefore, it is an independent body within the chamber but as far as I know, it is not a business relationship because he is there in that system, as far as I know, in that system has not received any subject and does not participate in solving the case at all because it is an honorary function. And on the other hand, when you mentioned DIP, DIP is really a collective body that has made decisions unanimously from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167035	I thank the Honorable President for his reply. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Marin Skibola, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167036	Mr. Sesa, in the end you only raised certain questions, you answered only the meaning selectively of certain questions, you did not specifically answer certain questions that I asked in the debate, you could hear that neither Mr. Marasa, I was interested specifically in how this is going to be answered by the Constitutional Court that the Consumer Credit Act has retroactive application and you from the Supreme Court have said that there is no retroactive application. So that was a specific question that I asked you, you didn't answer that question, so I ask you now in this last line to answer at least that question when you're not yet on many of the others I've asked you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167037	Thank you, answer, Supreme Court President, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167038	... I cannot remember this position of the Supreme Court now, but in any case, if the Constitutional Court has said that some law should be interpreted in a certain way, its decision, regardless of the type of proceedings it has been taken, shall apply to all other cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if that is the case, the Supreme Court will respect the Constitutional Court's decision from now on. ... If you can send me both, I will gladly answer you, very gladly give you an attitude. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167039	Thank you for your response. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Gyuri Ceci, for the reasons. The State Secretary, Mr. Christian Turkalj, is also present. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will continue work tomorrow at 9:30 in the morning with the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Roads, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the evening. The session was interrupted at 22.17 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-23-0.u167040	Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the State of Judgment for 2017 He's the President of the Supreme Court. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 75 for and 25 against the conclusion proposed by the parent parliamentary committee.
