ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139097	We move to deliver a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, first on behalf of the Club of IDS, PGS and RI is Mr Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, on behalf of the IDS Club, I'm going to talk about the so-called problem. Communela. The communela or rural goods are a specific form of ownership that exists in the area of Cicaria in northern Istria. In view of the fact that property legal disputes exist in the communal area, and I am currently in charge of judicial proceedings at the outset, I stress that we do not want to influence in any way the judicial authority which is independent and decides on the basis of the law. But the laws are passed here in the Parliament, and that's why I need to introduce you to this problem. Lands representing the communes were purchased by locals of Cicaria in the 19th century by the Austrian-Hungarian monarchy. I repeat, the locals bought these properties, their legal fees, their sales. The same country was mostly used together, for example, to buy a large pasture they then used to pasture cattle, while precisely knowing what was in nature, only that their own shares were not formally determined. This land was also inherited, one household would inherit another's land, if this would cease to exist, etc. However, due to certain legal gaps and unarranged laws, the state began to sign up for land as its property in land books by treating communes as land communities. Thus, the state decided to actually kidnap the people of Cicaria their grandfather. Instead of legally solving the problem and allowing the descendants of those who bought these lands to sign up as owners, the state does exactly the opposite, using legal gaps to register on all these properties and actually kidnap the land from their rightful owners. The people of Cicaria are simply bitter about this kind of behavior and behavior of the state. These people managed to preserve their property in former systems, both during Mussolini's Italy and during Yugoslavia, which also tried to take away those lands, but failed. It is therefore scandalous that today's modern and democratic Croatian state has nationalised the property that has been theirs for centuries. Courts must judge by the laws as they are and there is no dilemma, but that is why the Government must prepare quality and enforceable laws that I believe we will all support if they are well prepared and that will allow the courts to make fair decisions. I repeat, not during 20 years. Fascist Italy, even during the nationalisation of private property in Yugoslavia, the authorities failed to take away these parcels, and today in parliamentary democracy we are unable to create legal mechanisms for the protection of private ownership. That's why I call on the government here from this pay phone to launch processes as quickly as possible that will allow the locals of Ciceria to regain their ownership. It's a big area with mountain mountain status and... the population. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] People in these areas of the state should be supported, and we all are happy that someone has any will and strength to live in this area because given this topic, but also the huge problems that have been emerging lately with plots that literally become state property overnight, we ask ourselves whether this country is conducting nationalisation of what has not yet been succeeded by the state before or being converted into a Real Estate Transport Agency? Therefore, it is not enough for the state to register on land owned by municipalities and cities, but also to do so with private ownership. This, colleagues and colleagues, is the most dangerous form of centralization of the state and the concentration of power at one point, historically sounds like we can't afford it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139099	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139100	We move on to a declaration of clubs based on Article 249a of the Rules of Procedure. The first to make a statement was a representative of IDS, PGS and LRI, a respected colleague of Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139101	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. All relevant data show that Croatia is at the very beginning of the EU. One of the reasons is that we do not have clear regulations, which we do not have enforceable laws to change and apply from the need to the need without seeing the consequences. And what do we have for the aftermath? Legal uncertainty with citizens, legal uncertainty with entrepreneurs, and then we're surprised that we lack investment because we create unstable conditions ourselves, thus creating an anti-enterprise climate. What further burdens and worsens the situation is that the state generates unreasonable litigation with cities and municipalities. In these litigation procedures, the state requires unconditional recognition of property rights over land whether it is a building or a forest which ignores a very important fact, which is that both cities and municipalities are registered as owners of these land. In these litigation procedures, the state brings cities and municipalities into a subordinate position through its institutions. I'm going to give an example of a forest where at first sight it looks like it was working on the general interest of the Republic of Croatia and that's not really what it is. Because these forests have been gone for decades but on this land have long been built squares, sports facilities, playgrounds, cemeteries, other social and municipal infrastructures. And even more amazingly, the state in these same litigation procedures requires a cash return of all assets from the purchase of these land. The amounts paid for by municipalities and cities and, more importantly, invested in social and municipal infrastructure, and this is not negligible in order to improve the lives of its citizens on the contrary, even exceeding their annual budgets. And I will repeat, despite the fact that the municipalities and cities have been registered for years without any burden. Since it is not a small number of cities and municipalities in the coastal area, especially in Istria and especially in Dalmatia, since there is not a small number of exes in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, which I expect from these colleagues and colleagues in the current fellow Members and mayors, first and foremost, to contribute and support to finding a quality legal solution for those problems because this topic deserves a special debate. And finally, I hope the time has finally come to realize the fact that the house is built from the ground up and not from the roof and that we need to leave the rigid centralist governance model of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139102	Thank you, dear fellow Sponzi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139103	Now we're going to take the club stand, but after that we'll take a break by 2:30 when we get back to work. The first is Mr. Giovanni Sponza on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139104	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues of the IDS Representatives Club spoke repeatedly about one of the most important investments in the Istrian County, jointly realised by the government and the Istrian County with municipalities and cities. It is a new General Hospital in Pula, which after nearly 20 years of negotiations, which included 6 prime ministers and 8 health ministers in the final stage of the arrangement. In the first financial projections under the agreement of the Government and the Istrian County and General Pulse Hospitals, funds amounting to €800 million were planned. Since the public tender for the construction of the hospital reached a more favourable price, the agreement was revised from 800 million to 600 million kuna. It is important to stress that the construction, reconstruction, adaptation and equipment of the hospital is carried out according to a project commissioned by the Ministry of Health, approved and revised in late 2012. From 2012 to today, the relevant laws, rules and regulations were amended, and it was therefore necessary to approach the amendments and the additions to the project. In line with these facts and, above all, due to changes in regulations and higher standards, the total cost of the project has been increased by 150 million kuna. I must stress that the increase in the value of investment with new borrowing does not increase the previously planned and reserved assets for annuities in the state budget and its projection due to two facts. The first is that the pulse hospital has achieved savings by reprogramming loans, thus allowing a new credit debt of 150 million kuna needed, I stress without any additional burden. Others, that we are at a time when the most favourable conditions of credit are on the market with which additional borrowing will not increase previously planned and reserved resources in the state budget and its projection. Since this issue has been discussed at a joint meeting of representatives of the Ministry of Health and Istrian County and is highlighted at a meeting of the government held in Pula last year, I expect more concrete actions by the government to address insufficient resources in time. The work on completion of the hospital is ongoing and the first tenders for hospital equipment are under way, which indicates that the available HBOR loan will be spent relatively quickly and that insufficient resources should be provided in time. Given the procedure for bringing in credits that took up a lot of time, it is necessary to proceed with the procedure for new funds as quickly as possible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the health of citizens should be above any political interest, so we expect both concrete and timely government moves to ensure that the hospital building project is fully implemented by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139106	On behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives Club, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139107	The esteemed Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, I was forced to report for a harsh violation of the Constitution, in particular Article 129a. in which municipalities and cities are guaranteed the right to spatial and urban planning and to protect and improve the natural environment. To make it easier for us to illustrate the situation, I will set a specific example. The town of Rovinj is faced with an incredible situation, the state after all the absurds it allows in space goes on and on. The competent national authorities have taken the right to initiate the authorisation procedure for the construction of a gas station and that is no less than on particularly valuable agricultural land, which is in complete contrast with the purpose of land and with the spatial-planning documentation of the city. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since I know the town of Rovinj very well, I would like to say the following. Over the centuries, many generations have been very responsible for managing space and protecting the natural heritage of the town of Rovinj, and now someone has taken it as a right to throw it all into the wind, neither appreciates it, nor respects it, but rather than the conditions of spatial-planned documentation because it wants to build a gas station and I will repeat it on high value agricultural land. Dear colleagues and colleagues, try to imagine the following that someone would personally come to your yard without your knowledge and start building in your backyard, asking you how would you feel then, would you sit down, would you just observe it peacefully, or would you resist all the forces? So this is not a question for us to divide ourselves into hair and opposition, to the left and to the right, but I think we need to react now and right now. Both respected colleagues and colleagues and you representatives from the state administration be assured that neither the town of Rovinj, nor our club of representatives will sit with their hands closed and we will only observe it peacefully but we will do everything we can to resist it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139108	Thank you, fellow Sponzi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139109	Now we'll move on to free speech. Let's go in turn, it's the first turn of the IDS, PGS and LRI Club, dear colleague Emil Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139110	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, today I want to talk about '41, but unlike some who are in '41. The year of the last century I want to talk about 2041, I would really like us all to ask ourselves together where we see Croatia in 20 years. Where we see or do we even see what kind of environment our children will be waiting for, both socially and businessly. What are we doing with young people and young ones? They are all full of young people’s mouths when they need to be courted, but when these young people need to be supported or few of them are willing to do so. Aware of all the real circumstances of the last 30 years that have been specific, and therefore some things objectively justified, I must say that it has failed anyway. We've made an appointment as people, as a society, as a community that needs to worry about its future because who doesn't have a plan for young people has no plan for the future. And that plan obviously isn't there, because if there were then things would look and be completely different, we don't have systems access, but actually our whole system depends on individuals. A large number of politicians crash into their chests that they will do anything for young people, how it is necessary to preserve the young domicile population, bring them back from study back to their environments where they are adults, and those who remain in rural areas encourage them to raise families and create their environments. But for that we need a systematic approach, a social political consensus, a world-wide compromise, we need inclusiveness, not exclusion. We need modern ecologically sustainable and competitive food production, so I guess there's something else that can be done besides wheat, corn and rape oil. We don't have to, nor can we compete with quantities but with quality and speciality. Istria has shown this, and it is also showing the way towards a new direction, ecological, biodynamic, sustainable production with quality products. You can't imagine how many young families can find their future in that. A fantastic opportunity for young people is the IT sector. And how systematically is it invested in that? Let's not count those geniuses, enthusiasts who selflessly share their knowledge through various free educational workshops and seminars and where they need to take off their hats. Let's not count on those cities and municipalities that have financial and human resources, so they invest in entrepreneurial incubators and centres of excellence, they're individual positive flashes, but it's not a system. I'm talking about a system at national level, I'm talking about deep thinking and strategic plans that include a broader discussion of experts both social and natural sciences. I'm talking about a common national political consensus on things that are beyond politics itself. I'm talking about investing in modern, digital, communication infrastructure, investing in new young people through a modern system of science and education. I'm talking about the future of new generations. And most of all, I'm talking about giving young people hope and dignity back. Is this society exhausted by the topics of the past and ashamed by the daily affairs of the social political elite having the strength to respond to the greatest challenge that lies ahead? Are we finally ready to change the system that is so centralized that it slows down the development of potent environments, that because of its tromility it distances investors and confuses and discourages those young and inexperienced beginners in crafts and entrepreneurship? Instead of answering, I urge you all to think together and see how we can, everyone in our field of action help those to whom we leave this society. It's not too late, but only if we leave now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u139111	I thank my colleague, Daus. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues, before we begin our work just to welcome all together students and students of the Titush Brezovsky High School from Zagreb, welcome. Today we will begin with a report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2018, the applicant is the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities on the basis of Article 17. [[Applause.]] The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the government delivered an opinion. I would now first welcome the prosecutor's office for disabled persons and would like to ask for an additional explanation of the report. So, with us is anka slonjšak, attorney for people with disabilities, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141521	I thank you, dear Presidential Assembly, respected parliamentary representatives, for inviting us to discuss the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2018. In this report, through a comprehensive section through 320 pages, we presented various data on the work of the institution, data relating to complaints, treatment, opinions, attitudes, as well as suggestions to improve the situation of people with disabilities, and gave a presentation of the life situation of people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. In 2018 1,951 citizens came to us, which is for 124 addresses compared to 2017. The most common work was in the areas of social care, employment and work, pension insurance, accessibility and mobility, and education. The applicants were mostly persons with disabilities and alliances and associations. When we talk about counties, they complained most about Zagreb, Split-Dalmatia and Osijek-Baranja County, and at least from Ličko-Senjska and Virovitičko-Podravska. The report shows that the maximum number of infringements of the rights guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, suspected discrimination and infringements of the rights of a group of persons with disabilities were in the area of social protection. The most violations of law due to the long-term state of the art process were in the areas of social protection and pension insurance. In the area of accessibility, the most frequently violated rights are guaranteed by law. When we talk about the application of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination over the observed period, the largest number of cases of discrimination identified was related to discrimination in general, then access to goods and services, as well as employment and labour. By considering the complaints received and the other statements, we had 3,200 actions of which I would particularly highlight 394 individual and general recommendations addressed to ministries, local and regional self-government units as well as other rights to persons. In 24 e-consultations, we sent over 100 proposals for legal and sublegal acts, provisions, and 61 opinions were given directly to the competent authorities, of which about 30% were accepted. Proposals and recommendations for people with disabilities were generally received for knowledge or rejected with answers, we will consider, we will respect the following changes, we do not currently have the means to secure, it is accepted. Such answers deny the legal role of the Ombudsman as a body whose obligation is to make a proposal for amendments to the law where, on the basis of the action under appeal, the legal solutions have led to a violation of the law. However, proposals were accepted and accepted, some of them were not applied, which is precisely evident from the absence of concrete indicators. In addition to this, we have exhibited, educated, advised, promoted the rights of persons with disabilities to over 300 expert meetings, conferences and other events and others, and through 127 meetings in the country, but also through 27 events on the international scene. In 2018 we opened and started the work of the district office in Osijek, and we also provided space for the new regional office in Split that we are planning to open this year. In 2018, we continued the work of the second call for expert advice which held 7 meetings on topical and priority topics related to the position of persons with disabilities. Last year we also marked 10 years of office and following the position of persons and persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, as well as the application of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which entered into force in 2008 in Croatia, continuously lagging behind systemic changes as the only correct and long-term solution. Looking at complaints as well as taking into account knowledge obtained through our work in 2018, we believe that there have been minimal shifts in the exercise of rights in priority areas for people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. Individual shifts resulting from the persistent representation of parents and individual associations or legal changes which, for example, have increased the fees for a disabled person, the aid and care allowance, the child's allowance and the number of personal assistance users have not removed the systemic disadvantage that makes a large number of people with disabilities who need inclusive life in the community need personal assistance, or some other form of support cannot be obtained or can be obtained in terms of which they need it. I welcome the possibility of timely treatment for people with multiple sclerosis or the supply of Spinraza medicines for patients with SA, SV. However, there have been systemic changes which would give all persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities at the time when necessary, regardless of the cause and age, adequate health care and treatment. We are also familiar with people with disabilities that there are no subspecies doctors in Croatia and therefore individual groups of people with disabilities, for example. People with spinal injury do not have a modern access to health care. The complaints of children with disabilities in 2018 related to the inability or longer waiting for enrolment in kindergarten, resistance to inclusion in regular kindergarten and lack of quality inclusive support. The report shows concrete cases, where greater sensitivity and reasonable adaptation would avoid misunderstandings, misunderstandings, and conflicts between parents and pre-school institutions, and the children's right to participate in a pre-school programme without discrimination. The failure of reasonable adjustment is the most common form of discrimination against children with developmental difficulties in preschool institutions. As regards assistant assistant assistants, as a form of inclusive support in kindergartens, kindergartens generally provide a third breeder. However, the adoption of a legal or systematic solution is expected. We welcome the adoption of the regulations on assistants in the teaching and professional communications intermediaries. Although it has been passed since all deadlines and years since the beginning of our reference to work on it. However, it concerns that the systematic financing of assistants and professional communications intermediaries has not yet been defined, but we continue to rely on the project financing of this service. When we talk about education of students in development, education of students with developmental difficulties, education centres, social care or health care systems, parents tend to complain about the poorer quality of education compared to education in regular high school institutions. Many parents say that the fewer students in the class are almost the only advantage of this kind of education, and education in education centres does not provide a later equal chance of employment in the general system of work partly due to the prejudices of employers. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, as the founder of these centres, warned that the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is related to the right to inclusive education and achievement. 24. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities recommended that education of all children, including children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities, should be within the competence of the education system, while such a separate education system represents segregation and should be completely abandoned. The conditions and resources of these systems should be transferred to the regular system of education in a way that, for example, teachers from a specific education system should be used as professional support to the regular education system. We have been informed from the Ministry of Science and Education that a task force has been formed working on this process. When we talk about higher education, students with disabilities addressed themselves to regulate their student rights, such as, for example, the exemption from paying for disability-based studies and certificates, which would be evidence of disability in order to exercise the right to disability, during their studies, as well as when enrolling studies. On the basis of a recommendation from the Advocate General, the Agency for Science and Education has pledged to warn the High Schools and the Committee for the improvement of registration procedures and, where appropriate, other relevant stakeholders on the discrimination of legal and sub-legal regulations in relation to the conditions of enrolment in higher education studies. The complaints and address of students with disabilities have once again pointed to the lack of uniform procedures at higher schools to determine which adjustments students with disabilities are entitled to and under what conditions. When we talk about employment, although legislative changes in the employment of people with disabilities have strengthened the system of professional rehabilitation, those in last year have not yet affected a significant increase, a significant increase in persons with disabilities in Croatia. When we talk about civil society, providing social services to persons with disabilities, narrows down the scope of their advocate role, which should be the basic role of associations in society, while at the same time the implementation of social services has a major impact on the failure to establish a system-based social services solution. As a result, we support the adoption of the Law on Systemic Financing of Alliances and Associations of Persons with Disabilities, which is expected to be discussed and adopted by this year, which would be necessary to provide associations with the basic means of functioning. In particular, it concerns the fact that the proposals of the representatives of persons with disabilities, as key stakeholders, in accordance with the principle of nothing about us without us, and who participated in e- Consultatives and other forms of work on amending the law, were hardly respected either at national level or at the level of local and regional self-government. In addition, persons with disabilities stressed the lack of continuity in the implementation of measures and activities, as well as respect for strategic plans and objectives relating to persons with disabilities. The inability of a disabled person, whether using a helper or not, to enter a residential facility and a public object or a means of transport, to use a sanitary node or to access higher levels of content with elevators, is just some of the elements in the environment that, in practice, prevent people with disabilities from moving uninterrupted, leaving their own home, access to health services, doing jobs without talking about going to a cinema, theatre, museum or dating friends. The area of accessibility and mobility is one of the five areas where people with disabilities are most often complained about. Following the implementation of the National Strategy for Equality of Persons with Disabilities 2017-2020 for 2017, as it is only published in mid- 2019 for 2018, we note that the implementation of certain activities in this area that should have been carried out during 2017 has not been started. Although the intensity of solving the inaccessibility of the buildings in which the judicial authorities are located, it is evident that it is necessary to work and ensure the accessibility of all areas of the body of the entire judicial network, which are more than 3 hundred in the entire territory of Croatia. It is often true that these bodies are located in buildings of an older construction date. When we talk about road transport, people most often complained about unadjusted transport, which is still not accessible, so many face the lack of that service in their environments, especially in smaller places, hinterlands, rural areas, environments and islands. A particular problem with people with disabilities is that those who are poor in property and who do not own their own vehicle in that case cannot achieve the exemption from paying toll because the right to follow a car and not a right holder and are very common cases when they are carried from the service, such costs become even higher than they would have been, for example, freed from toll payments for the use of highways. When we talk about the use of the accessibility sign, we constantly and continuously warn the competent authorities about the necessity of amending this law in the act which it is prescribed and regulated, we have therefore re-recommended the authorities responsible for regulating and controlling the use of the right to find an appropriate model in the light of jurisdiction and given the current situation on the ground which will ensure that this right is exercised in such a way that such right exists. We have requested an amendment to the applicable rules on the accessibility sign or the adoption of a new which will bring the conditions for the exercise of this right in line with the applicable Art Methods Regulation and will improve the quality of that sign and, accordingly, ensure and facilitate its control of use. When we talk about rail transport, because of the inaccessibility of infrastructure and means of rail transport, people with disabilities feel insecure and avoid the use of this transport and often resort to more expensive modes of transport which essentially puts them in a more unfavourable position than people without disabilities. In maritime transport, following the intention of the competent Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, as shown in 2018, we recommended that legal and long-term consideration be given to the arrangements for ensuring the right to pay for personal car tickets to those who are also assisted by a single means of mobility, with regard to children with developmental difficulties, legal guardians or legal advocates from those persons who are users of Leasing. This was also one topic that we have been repeating since 2012. As far as tourism is concerned, although Croatia is recognised as a desirable tourist country, people with disabilities continue to face many obstacles that make them unable to choose a tourist destination by their own means and use all tourism services on an equal footing, as well as persons without disabilities, it is therefore necessary to ensure the real accessibility of all resources in the community, or from all that is interesting in a tourist country like Croatia. When we talk about housing, more people with disabilities complained about the inability to exercise the right to uninterrupted access to their own housing space, and most of the time in cases of lack of elevators in multi-story residential buildings. Examples of citizens' address and examples of practice suggest that it is necessary to raise the awareness and empathy of society as a whole in view of persons with disabilities because by implying uninterrupted access to their own housing, for example by moving up stairs or climbing only one step away, everyone can one day present a problem that significantly makes life normal and quality impossible. In order to be able to live as independently as possible and really engage in the lives of the community, persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, they need to make radical changes in all systems whose share is like all other citizens. With the development and dissemination of services in the community, it is necessary to continue the process of deinstitutionalisation, which during 2018 as well as the last few years in stalemate as it is in disrepair with Croatia's commitment to the achievement of human rights of persons with disabilities and international commitments. The view that the life of adults and their transfer from institutions to foster families without the right to choose, the implementation of the deinstitutionalisation process reflects the lack of understanding of the concept of equal human rights. We are again warning that this is unacceptable and contrary to the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Croatia. In order to actually know who we are talking about today, in this debate, according to data from the Institute of Public Health at the end of 2018, there were 505 725 persons in Croatia with various damages, age and various causes. That makes 202,000 women. According to the education structure, 66% of them are without a primary school or only with a finished primary school, 25% have medium professional training, 3.3% have high or higher and 5.7% special education. At a working age, there are 240 thousand. According to data from persons with disabilities registered at HZMO, 10 836 persons were employed at the end of 2018. According to HZMO data, due to the overall inability to work or to total loss of work capacity, 46 310 persons who received an average pension of 2242 kuna were registered. The disability pension, due to its professional ability to work or to part-time job losses, was received by 68,617 users at an average amount of 1,800 kuna. The same disability pensions but in the system of work, there were 5,000 people with disabilities who had an average disability pension of 1100 kuna. We believe that changes in the system that were the result of legislative activity in 2018 were made in order to keep up with various pressures and without real focus on end-users and without the need for essential solutions to establish a long-term sustainable and fair system of protection of the affirmation of rights. We therefore conclude that there is a period ahead of us in which we expect to see the crucial changes for most people with disabilities and the harmonisation of the legal and sublegal rules that are adopted in 2019 with the Convention and the rights of persons with disabilities and, above all, with the primary interest of the end-user. Amendments and adoption of new regulations as well as existing ones such as the Road Safety Act, Roads Act, the Law on Social Care, the Law on personal assistants, the Law on Inclusive Adjectives, the Law on Systemic Financing of Alliances and Associations of Persons with Disabilities of the Law in the Use of the Assistant Dog, as well as other legal and sublegal regulations which are of primary importance for the life of persons with disabilities. In view of the measures taken, i.e. not taken in 2018 to address the shortcomings that we, as an institution and the movement of persons with disabilities, have warned for years, I am asking in the end how many decision-makers really count on people with disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141522	I'd like to thank the D.A.'s attorney. We have five replicas. He's my first colleague, Cellic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141523	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney with your co-workers, the secretary of state. I will be here, in an individual debate I will talk about persons with mental disorders but here I will mention that on June 6th, the day of the right person with mental disorders in the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the Croatian Parliament on June 1, 2012, was declared the statute of the hospital at the time in 1880. And then it is said that there is a need to promote a fair relationship between society and people with mental disorders. So you mentioned the problem of business ability which, under the current law, can no longer be completely but only a partial solution and that it should be specified. I think it's a big breakthrough, but we still need to talk about the problem of business ability.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141524	Thank you. Would you like to respond to the replica? No, I don't. Thank you. Then it's the second up for a fellow Sneezing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141525	Thank you. Here, as every year, a very comprehensive Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities as one lighthouse in which they actually look at all persons with disabilities that it sums up all their problems and in some way presents to the public. And for that I commend him. I would like to draw attention to the fact that you said and specifically talked about the right to physical therapy and medical rehabilitation outside the hospital, which is actually very difficult for all persons living in islands and rural areas, so it is quite different for us in Rijeka and Zagreb to organise physical therapy and medical rehabilitation as to what they are and it is easier to come from transportation, but also because of medical staff deficits. You have also made a proposal to the Ministry of Health on how to resolve it, can you tell us if you have any response from the Ministry of Health to your recommendations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141526	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141527	We have studied this subject several times over the past years and last year, but we have submitted proposals and recommendations to HZZO, since what is, in fact, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, of course brings some changes to this system. It's always a matter of staff shortages, it's always a matter of paying staff working in this regard to certain service providers. So basically the answers that we received, the ministry is in charge of legal and sublegal regulations and it has passed on to respond to the HZZO, but that answer is actually not adequate to be presented as the solution that you are actually looking for here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141528	Third replica, colleague Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141529	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ombudsman, can you tell us in fact which position, somewhere in which Croatia is located in relation to the development of the system of care for persons with disabilities, politics and the organisation itself and? In recent years, it means a few years, two years, let's say, has it occurred, have you mentioned some, some areas of deterioration, in fact, or a stalemate in the development of the system itself, and I think you've mentioned the processes of deinstitutionalisation and, in your opinion, for what reasons has occurred in this area, perhaps even in some other areas that you consider to have been blocked?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141530	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141531	So here is the question of social protection as such and the issues of the process of deinstitutionalisation, what is visible, the process of deinstitutionalisation is only one part of independent life and life in the community. And in this sense, we believe that it is happening, but it has been happening too slowly and in one run since I was a lawyer, but in the last few years I can say it there somewhere since 2014, 2015 as if in that part it had started to slow down especially in those years when the elections were in 2015, 2016, somehow there was some kind of change of opinion or some reroution. It is mostly visible and we have processed this area in the report that it has neither adequately nor used the loan obtained from the World Bank. It is also evident that the funds available to the European Social Funds are not well-planned at first, programmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141532	Thank you. We're going to the fourth line of my colleague Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141533	Thank you, Your Honor. The esteemed attorney, so you spoke among other things about accessible tourism. So I would like to appeal to the mayors and mayors of tourist cities on this occasion to invest more on projects like this. In fact, one example, the city of Vodice has long had ramps for entering mail, bank, infirmary and the like, but it also invests every year on installing a ramp for disabled people on its salaries, has aqua lift and so on. Namely, the Ministry of Defence, the defenders call each year a tender and assists cities and municipalities for such projects, and we should not forget that by tax reform almost 2 billion kunas have received cities and municipalities and can allocate some of the funds for such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141534	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141535	As far as accessible tourism is concerned, we have processed the report, we have conducted one survey just to see how much it really takes to educate, to sensitize and raise the awareness of the tourist staff themselves, but especially what you say to units of local and regional self-government that the more they report to certain projects if they do not have the resources already in their paragraphs, but I think that one very important issue is education, those who work in all segments, which are actually all employees, regardless of the resources we talk about, because if the community is developed, as such, then it will also be more accessible for all guests, regardless of whether they are from Croatia or from other countries. What's a big problem is that everything is actually done very partially, something adapts, and actually a person can come to a hotel, and he can't pay or get paid and he can't enter a hotel. We have situations that can't use rural tourism, especially the OPGs, haven't taken advantage of all the opportunities or been adequately presented to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141536	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141537	The esteemed attorney, a very extensive report and very complex. I'd only ask one question, if you know how to answer me. Quatern employment has definitely led to more persons with disabilities being employed and is seen in the report that employers still respect the law and employ people with disabilities. My question goes towards you, how many ministries, employs persons with disabilities, i.e. how many ministries meet the quota and are freed from paying what I say is a job tax for people with disabilities. So how many ministries have fulfilled the quota, and how many ministries have so far failed to fulfil their legal obligation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141538	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141539	As far as ministries are concerned, it is evident that according to our knowledge, there is in fact very little competitions, those who have an opportunity for people with disabilities and apply for employment. We don't currently have the exact data related to the Ministry of 2018 because we spent two years in a row before and followed that particular part. However, what I must say is that, in fact, the ministries as such still have one major problem, which some of them have not yet approached and adapted in an adequate manner. On the other hand, we also have a problem with the education of persons with disabilities, i.e. those who appear in the competition, because we actually need to work on that system of education and to connect it with the labour market, so that people with disabilities can at all work at certain places in the ministries. So it's actually a mutual and complex problem, I think we should also work on, that the bodies are ensured in all segments to adapt to the ministries, and on the other hand we have to work on the educational structure of the people themselves with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141540	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur now want to take the floor? Yes, colleague Strenja, chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141541	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, and I would like to welcome the Attorney General and the representatives of the competent ministries. It is important that we also talk that the Committee on Health and Social Policy had this report at its session and discussed it as a parent working body. In its opening statement, which was submitted by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, it provided data for 2018 when he addressed it, meaning as 1951 citizens, which is about 10%, respectively. The most address was in the area, in the field of social care, 377, employment and work of 283, pension insurance, 263, accessibility and mobility 156, education 141, health care 136 and following areas of justice, custody, settlement control. The office had a total of 3200 proceedings, in 24 hours of counselling, the Office also sent 100 proposals for legal and sublegal provisions, 61 opinions,... Directly to competent authorities, about 30% of them were accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the work was very intense, by the Attorney General. Most of the defense attorney's proposals and recommendations, have been informed or rejected, which is one of the fundamental objections of the Advocate General. As she pointed out, on our Committee, such, ignoring the view, the legal role of the Ombudsman, as a body, whose obligation to make a proposal for amendments to the law, where, on the basis of its appearance, it is observed that legal solutions have led to infringements of the rights of persons with disabilities. However, even when proposals were accepted, some of them were not later applied, which is evident from the absence of concrete indicators, as she told us. It also highlights the existence of minimal shifts, which occurred in the exercise of rights in priority areas for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. Individual shifts resulting from the persistent advocate of parents and individual associations or legal changes have not removed the systemic deficiency, which has led to a large number of people with disabilities, who, for inclusive life in the community, are the need for personal assistance services or some other... They have not received that support or can not get it in the amount they need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The establishment of a systematic solution to social services, as well as the necessity of the creation of a deinstitutionalisation process which, in 2018 as well as the last few years, according to the Ombudsman, is seen as priorities for the necessary changes. In the field of healthcare, the Ombudsman referred to the availability of health services, the inrecognition of people suffering from spinal disease, the problem of spin centres in the Varazdin spas, the treatment of multiplesclerosis and rare diseases, the problem of approval or disapproval of orthopaedic and other aids, the right to physical therapy and medical rehabilitation outside the hospital, as well as the problem of accommodation without consent under Article 26. A law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. She also warned of the need for early intervention in children in developmental difficulties, as well as the need for better cross-resorship cooperation. In the debate, individual committee members agreed in principle with the recommendations cited by the Advocate General, which were to step up the development of support services, regardless of life in the community and the transformation of services centres in the community. What they did not fully agree with was the closure of institutions and the closure of accommodation institutions. In this regard, they consider it necessary to distinguish measures of coercion, for example. in people with dementia and people with schizophrenia. In the area of delivery for children, they also considered that certain shifts were made and in this regard pointed out the announced establishment of a clinic for children's and adolescents' psychiatry of KBC Rebro Zagreb recently. They also agree with the lack of professional and medical staff at the Psychiatric Hospital for Children and Youth in Zagreb, as well as lack of accommodation capacity. The problem of insufficient numbers of child and adolescent psychiatrists is the problem that should be addressed in the near future, we noted in the debate. I would mention here that we also had a thematic session on this subject in the Parliamentary Committee on Health and Social Policy. Although representatives of the Ministry of Demography, the family, youth and social policy and the Ministry of Health explained the opinion of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the report warned of errors, misstatements expressed in the report and pointed out a principled remark on the report submitted, the committee members unanimously praised and supported the lawyer's report in question. As the debate highlighted the fundamental role of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities is to protect, monitor and promote the rights and interests of persons with disabilities and to point out certain shortcomings and irregularities, all for the purpose of promoting the rights and interests of persons with disabilities. So after having unanimously supported this report, we proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141542	We will now be approached by a representative of the Government in order to give the same additional explanation, the government's opinion, with us respected Marija Pleikosa, State Secretary of the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141543	Thank you, Honored President, Honored Representatives and Advocates, Honored Advocates, Honored Ministry Representatives, here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia's opinion on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2018 based on the opinion of the competent authorities who provided the above-mentioned report. And this, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, the Ministry of Croatian Defence and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. That report shall show the activities and work of the Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities and shall provide an overview of the data on the reported infringements of the rights of persons with disabilities during the past year, as well as recommendations from the Ombudsman to the observed irregularities in the work of the stakeholders responsible for the care of persons with disabilities through various areas of action. Taking into account the fact that the role of the Ombudsman is to question the rights of persons with disabilities in accordance with international obligations and national legislation, as well as to ensure the consumption of those rights, the competent authorities have given their consideration to the Advocate’s report. The opinion of the competent authorities shows that great efforts have been made to improve the care of people with disabilities in all areas of their lives, but also the awareness that there are still great challenges for all of us to ensure that children with developmental difficulties and adults with disabilities are provided with the best conditions of life that they deserve. The report on the work of the Ombudsman, the government of the Republic of Croatia, found it very informative. The recommendation made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is intended to improve the transparency of infringements of the rights of persons with disabilities and recommendations made by the Ombudsman, results achieved in the field of care for persons with disabilities and needs that are not yet met in certain areas. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and in the coming period will take a number of steps to continue to improve the care of children with developmental difficulties and adults with disabilities including their families, and in line with all available human and financial resources, taking into account the recommendations made by the Ombudsman through this report and including persons with disabilities at all stages of decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141544	Thank you, we have one replica, my colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141545	I don't know if you have the authority to answer a very simple question. The government first complained that the prosecutor's report was too extensive, and then she wrote her argument on page 19, I read it three times in which the government refers to the prosecutor's report, corrects some things, argues a little with the prosecutor, but I haven't seen any concrete moves within the government's opinion to correct what the government is objecting to in her report. But what I don't see from the government's very point of view is whether the government accepts this report or just takes it into account, so I don't see it, and so far it's always been that the government accepts the report, that it's the government that supports the report, but there's not even a letter in this report whether it's it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141546	Thank you. No answer, no thank you. Then we'll move on to the debate, the first is the club of the representatives of the independent lists, the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141547	I thank you, so we have a very comprehensive lawyer's report in front of us for people with disabilities, who should be read and read and should be as I said, a traffic light that will say, these things must not continue in this way in Croatia, and these things are good, we should continue to develop and support them. And thinking about how I would like to discuss this debate today, I would like to read to you in fact, since the club of the Independent Lists will support this report, I will read to you the letter from parents of children suffering from diabetes because it is a form of the way that an attorney should actually be treated, what complaints she gets, and in fact the way we operate today in Croatia, which is that parents must really come to the media and try in some way, information about what happens to their children to place in order to try and get some solutions. And that's what we can't do. So, we must not function in this way that, only if a problem occurs, such as the spinrass of which we finally have no solution, is there still a lot of children who are only in the assessment and who have not started treatment and other children who are actually media attention and collecting donations to solve their serious illnesses. Therefore, the parents of children with severe health damage, which is chronic and incurable diseases, children suffering from diabetes, wanted to draw attention to the non-compliance of competent institutions under the European Convention on the Rights of Children, and that means that some who were to evaluate these children did not follow the same convention and the assessment was subjective and too personal. Therefore, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is a document which has an extralegal power, etc., obliges the States Parties to provide the highest level of health to each child and to ensure the conditions in which no child will be deprived of his right, and it says that in all actions relating to children, whether they are taken by public or private institutions, social care, courts, state administration or legislative bodies, the best interest of the child must be given priority. Second, the States undertake to ensure, in appropriate legislative and administrative measures, the protection and care of the child as he needs for his well-being taking into account the rights and duties of his parents, legal guardians and other persons. Therefore, the parents of children suffering from diabetes say that, given that a large part of their rights stems from findings and opinions on the severity and type of disability, i.e. damage to the functional capacity of the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, they looked at concrete examples when this was not properly assessed. Therefore, they say that it is rare to draw an opinion in the context of this letter that the complete documentation of these children that has been delivered to me and has been delivered to the Ombudsman, so it is rare to take an opinion in which, although the same years of the same diagnosis, our children are not equally reported, so that they cannot even exercise the same rights. This indicates that first of all, it should be addressed to the Institute of Art and asked them to agree on categorizing the severity of health damage in the diagnosis, means diabetes mellitus type 1. And then they applied, so they found the opinion of the same child in the space of one year, when the child in the first finding was skilled at the age of 7 and when the third stage of chronic disease and the existence of severe disability was established, while for a year later, when the child was 8 years old, the 2nd degree of chronic disease was identified and the need for reduced child care, while in both cases diabetes was characterized as a temporary change in health condition, type 1 diabetes doctors know, but the experts know what it is. So, of course, the parents of this child encounter many obstacles and inability to exercise the right, and we know that the child is equally dependent on his parent and at age 7 and 8 and that diabetes type 1 is not a temporary change and therefore suggest that the finding and opinion be issued for a long time and not for a year and that ultimately the cost of the whole process be reduced, which would be mutual satisfaction. When parents succeed in obtaining an opinion from the Institute of Engineering and agreeing with it, the type and severity of disability, the permanent change in health conditions, the direct need of temporary assistance in full scope, the next obstacle is to explain to social workers in centres for the social care of their rights and interpretation of the law. And then by virtue of the social care law, a child can be entitled to an allowance for full-scale care and care, which is often not recognised by parents who use the right to work with half their full-time workers for increased child care, although it is clearly in art. 60. The social care law. And then these parents mean, they're talking about an example of a dissuasive solution again in two almost the same cases, so two children who are suffering from type 1 diabetes by the Office, so it's reported as grade 3, it's tending to disability and the need for temporary care in full range. So now, if they have received proper skills in the institution, then they now have a situation where one child is granted the right to help and care even though his mother is using the right to work with half the full time, while another child is denied the same right on the grounds that his mother is using the right to work with half the full time, and that the monthly income of the household is passing the legal census, and yet on the basis of the same provisions according to the illegal interpretation of the relevant persons and therefore propose education of the responsible persons, they are seeking recognition of the rights of children, and resulting from the laws already mentioned, as well as the resolution of all these problems, means within this area. They have, therefore, proven and this example is more, of complete indifference and intransparency, as well as subjective interpretation of the laws and powers given in the exercise of the right to assistance and care and work for 4 hours. So the difference is simply in the person who represented the body of art that day and according to a free and subjective assessment, determines who gets and who doesn't get his rights. The establishment of this species simply cannot function in quality and loses its purpose, which is a needy person full of fear for his job depending on how he will artificially. The European Social Charter guarantees children's rights to adequate social, legal and economic protection. In accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Social Charter, families should be given all the necessary protection and assistance to fulfill their crucial role but in real life it is not. I'm just going to repeat the words that the former attorney general said, to conclude this part, which is because savings, the former attorney for children, and where children are concerned, because saving in the long run has the most expensive price in the long run, and that's a violation of their health. Children, especially those who are sick, are not a group who can wait for some better times, they need help and protection now and here as they mature and grow up and form into future citizens of this society, so we recommend that when creating and implementing a rationalisation measure, you certainly take care of the consequences of the individual measures on children and their health in general and in the environment in which the child lives as well as the savings that you do not endanger the rights and interests of children who are guaranteed by all national and international documents. There is still a short but would like to point out once again that you have really systematically advocated in your actions and the right to treat children suffering from various rare and systemic diseases and persons actually suffering from rare diseases, you have warned in due time about the need to change the criteria in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, there has been included our Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy, Croatian Neurological Society with a roof meaning Alliance of multiple and indeed the criteria have changed in the end, and now all patients with multiple sclerosis are allowed treatment within immediately after diagnosis and not having to wait for 2 worses in one year or a year of diagnosis. I think that these things should also be systematic monitoring by the Ministry of Health and Health because this actually turns out that if, as I said, they're loud enough and they warn and then they get support from either the D.A. or the media, then the criteria change, but I don't think that's how it should be. In recent days we have also, in recent weeks, been again in the situation that we are familiar with children or the Association "Bračski Pupolje" has pointed to the inaccessibility of what was needed and it is children with difficulties in the development of the island and their payment actually carried by ferry that could not be solved because it is not too many children, but if we have said in Croatia that we will provide everyone with equally accessible healthcare, I think that could have been resolved so far. What was interesting to me in your report is that, as I said, everyone has the same right but we must not allow because of what the children on the islands are, in particular, away from where they should receive support and treatment in their personal illnesses, you recommended to local self-governments to take all the measures and make all the necessary decisions to ensure that children with developmental difficulties are entitled to health, education and social security. And I think it is necessary to repeat here that you have proposed that we need to establish a spatial, professional and organisational and other resources to improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities and to develop an analysis of needs and action plan to establish early support for children with development difficulties, hire the required number of experts in pre-school and school institutions, rehabilitators, logos and psychologists in order to provide the necessary social and health and rehabilitation services for children with development difficulties systematically through relevant local projects to support programmes such as that programme of the “Brač Pupoli” association aimed at rehabilitating children with development difficulties, providing their own resources or from other sources, means HZZO programmes or European funds for helpers in teaching and pre-school institutions, which has not yet been systematically resolved, encourage all preventive programmes of health and educational institutions and services as well as the provision of work-related services in order to provide for the provision of the provision of suitable transporting services with the necessary facilities. I hope the leaders of the local self-government heard you, I have repeated it here once again, but as I say, you are someone whose great responsibility is to warn you of what is in the system of concern for people with disabilities poor, where we can fix and expect also that in this sense the competent ministries, as we see, only 30 percent of your proposals are accepted, I hope that the future will be better, the Most Independent List club will support this report, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141548	Thank you, second in line is dear colleague Ljubica Lukacic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141549	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed attorney-in-law with his associates, the esteemed secretary of state, the secretary of state. Here is the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities and I, before I say a few words about this great report, will express my special satisfaction that our Ombudsman has spoken here today for the first time from this stage, from this pay phone, which the Croatian Parliament has also adapted for me as a representative and for her as a lawyer and we see that this is one step forward. So this big, but comprehensive report is like every year, a lot of information. And we always lead him to say that it's going to be one book that we're all going to be able to pull some data from together. So this report is good, though large, so it often happens that not everyone likes to read it. However, here, fortunately, and on the proposal and parliamentary committees of several years ago, the Ombudsman also delivers us a summary of this report and we can all see it together faster and easier to see what our attorney noted in the past year. So the lawyer pointed out in her opening speech, and we can see it from the report, that in the last year, she received a little more complaints, application or address. I don't see that that's the problem, though, it's good that people with disabilities are talking to the D.A., she's their attorney and she's, I'd say, the first step that people with disabilities can and should address, so they just might just ask, or to start solving their rights. In the past year, the lawyer opened a district office in Osijek, and it is probably one of the reasons why there has been more address to the lawyer than in 2017. As she announced, this year, when she opened the office in Osijek, the Ombudsman should, or should, expect the lawyer to open the district office in Split, the following probably Rijeka, etc. in order to cover all of Croatia and how people with disabilities should not come to Zagreb because it is simply impossible for many. The government's report, which, on about 20 pages this year, shows that the government has expressed what it believes may not be the most subtle or best written in the report, and I would agree with much of it, because there are, of course, small minor errors in this report, but in the principle of the report it is good and good to point out what the government thinks is not very good and written in it. As far as I'm concerned, I'll be leaving the social services briefly, so to speak, since the D.A. also said that there were a large number of objections. So, as you all know, I'd say birds on the branch, they're singing about the fact that in the last year, there was an increase in personal disability and compensation for help and care, and that we improved the status of carers for people with disabilities. When we talk about personal disability and extras for help and care, I must say, this is the first government after a long time to step up these two rights. For 20 years, we've waited for the personal disability and allowance to be increased at least a little. I don't have to say how much the needs of a disabled person have increased in those 20 years. 1500 kn personal disability, many will say and speak is not much, but it is a big step forward and this is the beginning with which this government could move at the moment, so, and extras for help and care, you probably all know that the government is preparing a new Social Care Act in which we expect further improvements. What the D.A. has just pointed out has been going on for a long time, and we expect the personal disability to be disbursed by all censors because it's a disability fee and it's not a social compensation. At these moments, here's the duration and arrangements and negotiations, how we're going to do it and thank the ministry, here's the Secretary of State to transfer the minister and that we're pleased to agree because that's, that's the relationship the ministry is showing towards civil society, to those of whom it can learn the most, who know best what their needs are. I believe we'll be able to arrange everything that we think needs to be fixed and that we couldn't do in the changes and additions in the last year. As for community service and here we have, I'd say a lot more work even though we're going a lot, a lot ahead. Personal assistance, when we talk about personal assistance more than, I'd say close to 2000, so over 1,500 people have a personal assistant. In my personal opinion, it is not enough and for many years but we are talking about the need to pass the Law on personal assistance. This government has set out, therefore, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy to set up a task force to prepare the Law on Personal Assistence and the Law on Inclusive Adjunction. I would say that, with the Social Care Act, these are two key laws that people with disabilities expect to improve their status and that they can meet their needs in the best possible way. When it comes to hiring people with disabilities, I especially look forward to it because we are still taking note of a big, big step. There was this talk here today about the Institute of Art, about this famous unique body of art that we've been waiting for so long and we've been struggling to get a unique body of art, one finding and an opinion that will be enough for us for all systems. We're slowly moving on, we haven't gotten to it yet, but the Institute of Art is doing everything in its power to determine the disability. All of what the D.A.'s report says and what we're talking about here today won't be possible to improve until we know who the disabled are and who the disabled are. Today, we are dealing with the concept of 510 about thousands of people with disabilities, which is a large number, but among them there are those who do not have great disability and could not exercise the rights that we are talking about here today. So we need to know exactly who the disabled are and who the disabled are. On this occasion, I would like to commend the Office for going finally, finally, and in this great problem, the biggest problem I would say is that until we solve this, we can't talk about regulating amendments to any rights whatsoever. I believe that this problem will be resolved soon, given that the Public Health Institute is also involved, which keeps a register of persons with disabilities, and very soon we will find an institution that will make a solution to disability. We don't have a lawyer or me. Now, if I were to show you our solutions, you'd see that they say that we're both the D.A. and I'm the person with the physical damage, and I don't think that's the case. But here's what I said, we're finally going to solve, and in this 2.5-year term of this government, we've made a really big step, but it's impossible to practice in a large number of ways and solve problems, given that the Institute of Arts is still living in very, very inappropriate places where people with disabilities are very difficult to come to art, where they can't hire new people because there's no space and there's a great need. So I believe that the Institute of Arts will soon get its new space so that we can solve all these problems that I was talking about as soon as possible. We know that this year the Institute has received 20 thousand items of new art of Croatian defenders and that I will not say the burden, it must be done but it is also a larger number that will burden the Office of Arts, so it is impossible to move forward until the Institute enters its new rooms. When we talk about accessibility, I'd like to say that, as the D.A. said, our big problem is what we've been talking about lately, and I'd like to say the most we're talking about, and that's a sign of accessibility and freedom from paying toll. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure opened our hands, opened the door for us, expressed the best will to free the toll from being tied exclusively to the car but as a sign of accessibility for the person. But that's where we get the problem now, when the ministry has the will, when the government opens our hands, then here we are, unfortunately, I have to say it. persons with disabilities [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'll finish it. We can't make a deal. [[Intruder: My fellow Luktic time is up, so please finish.]] But we're on our way to find a definition of who this person with disabilities is. And like I said, we need it for everything we want to solve for people with disabilities, and I believe that's what's about to happen. [[Intruder: Comrade Luktić, please.]] The esteemed attorneys our club will support your report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141550	Now let's go to the third club, it's SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141551	Thank you, Your Honor, I hope you'll have an understanding for all of us this way, once we've extended a little bit. I welcome again the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities with Associates, Ministry Representatives, State Secretary, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, here is another truly valuable report from the Ombudsman on the work for, on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, and I would say that as is mentioned every year is really extensive, however, it is great and it is because the problem itself is the person with disabilities and all areas that cover are really wide, and this is really extensive to show a complete state, the state of the country as it is then needs to be written. Of course we do, so we have a summary that is easier to read in this sense, but it's quite clear, but also, although I'm not completely all 300 and how many pages I've read but I've read out those parts that I thought were more important to me and for the debate itself, and they're really well described, they're well depicted and they're even better depicting the problem itself than the summary. At the beginning, I will say that the SDP Club will support a report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2018 because not only because it is written extensively, but because it is visible that it really advocates persons with disabilities, which is the primary task of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, and points to all the difficulties, problems, all those delays, to everything that the state has not done, which we have not, in a legislative sense, adopted, ratified and committed to the systematic implementation of all these tasks, which in conventions and other international documents stands. Therefore, this document is therefore important from year to year. What we may have to respect and more respect is that it is and results in fear itself, it is visible from the report and the oral presentation of the Ombudsman it is a dissatisfaction with the number of objections accepted, a recommendation, so I think it is a data that is still not satisfactory, which is that everything seems 30% to me, I think I have read that figure, 30% of the recommendations addressed, the remark adopted. What is really, which is less than half and actually points to some and problem, I am not yet here I would like to get to it and see what the problem is, because I too have noticed that especially in legal matters, when it comes to the observations concerning laws, then there is often no answer to any financial means at this time or to the knowledge but without clear and specific, specific guidelines or concretely visible when it will be specifically discussed or reach certain conclusions or accept the comments themselves. Listening or former colleagues, especially my colleague Lukacic, I'm kind of under the impression that it's actually a lot of optimism and here's all going in some kind of good direction, so I'd say it seems to me that it's a little bit bit and conflicting with the attorney's report that still doesn't consider everything to be so wonderful and very optimistic and that we can expect in the near time significant improvements. Likewise, by reading the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this report, we can also see that certain disagreements and certain fundamental disagreements are essential, I think, which do not give much optimism that the recommendations spoken by the Ombudsman will be respected. In particular, I will just say that one of the fundamental differences that is visible in this report and also in the government's opinion is that the relationship to the Household Law is essentially what fostering it is when it comes to adult persons with disabilities, in this sense the Ombudsman makes it very clear that fostering in no way can be a process of deinstitutionalisation and that, in fact, according to the recommendations of the UN Committee, it should avoid fostering adults with disabilities, while on the other hand, the government considers that the law that has failed here in the Assembly is in some way speaking the opposite and calling for some other sources, believing that this extraordinary effort they have made, which the Ministry has invested in pushing the Law on foster care and carrying out all the activities of the foster care is actually saying that they do not agree with the justice, have essentially different thinking, and which direction they are going to doso. What I want to say in this work is that when we talk about the system, the state system for people with disabilities, then there must be clear progress in achieving, meeting all those provisions that we have outlined through the adoption of conventions, especially when we talk about these three key areas of life, which are education, training, work, employment or independent life. Some shifts have been made and there we really need to admit what was done, we would like to know what the results of these activities were made, for example. when employment is recognised as a disabled person without regard to whether or not the person is working, so he receives a personal disability or an author's fee, we are interested, and to what extent there has been an increase in the number of people with disabilities because it will only then make a real sense. On the other hand, we are still warning, and that was the reason why it didn't go to delinquency and when it comes to pensions, we were told to wait for the Social Care Act, it's been more than a year since we passed the law on personal disability, and we hope it will come to this because it was one of the key promises. Much is expected of the new Social Welfare Act, we will see, here with impatience we at the SDP Club are also awaiting this law. Next problem we want to talk about, assistance. Assistence is, personal assistance is indeed one of the burning problems, it is financed through projects from now on, through associations and project activities which certainly require assistance, at this point is not well solved, it has been solved in a small part of the life space of life, but this requires really when we are going in this direction, after 12 years, I think that it really needs to complete this story and make the Law on Personal Assistants or a similar law that will allow assistance in accordance with the needs of people with disabilities because otherwise, the service itself does not make any sense if it really does not fully comply with the needs of persons with disabilities. What I want to say is that we talked through the SDP club, these are the problems facing people, adults with autism and their parents or families where the problem of adults is still not systematically solved, for the last time, I said this, the Center for Autism Zagreb, which is still under the education system, we are waiting for concrete answers to these questions. Also, when it comes to early intervention, I would like to say that the issue has been addressed to the Government and that the answer is very principled in which the understanding is expressed, but still, here is the Ombudsman, the answer from the Ministry or the Government has arrived but he is only speaking the question to Minister Kujundzic, I have continued to refer this question to Minister Kujundzic but there is no clear answer as to when the Management Committee for Working Intervention will be set up, which is very necessary in order to systematically access this solution or create a system for the early accession of the early age and early provision of services to children in order to prevent or facilitate late work in time. I would also like to say that as regards the accessibility of the law, the SDP Club has referred us to the parliamentary procedure and the Law on the Supplements of the Roads Act, believing that there is one injustice and wanting to correct that injustice when it comes to all persons with disabilities, because in this current law accessibility, i.e. the exemption from toll payments, only those who and in their possession have a personal car. So we went with the suggestion that this right applies to the person with disabilities and not to the vehicle. And I hope, here I am, listening to my colleague Lukacic, that this law, if it comes here in the parliamentary procedure, will be accepted because I have seen that it welcomes exactly the changes that will come from the ministry itself. What I would like to mention to my colleague, Arsen Bauk, is also here in the procedure of the Change Act, also concerning maritime transport, and as regards the transport of children from the island to the mainland, it is not accepted by the HDZ, nor by those who, therefore, are representatives who live on the islands, so it is very strange, but here, I hope that there will be some changes, I don't know what, but once again I refer to this appeal, children on the islands often have to go to the mainland and it's not right that they are discriminated against, that this part of life is difficult for them. They need to be relieved exactly in a way that allows for free ferry travel and otherwise to be made possible in maritime transport. So much for now, through here's another note that the club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141552	Thank you very much. We're going to the HSS and Democrats' Club now. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141553	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed attorney, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. All who traveled to Europe and America certainly noticed a large number of people with disabilities in the streets, jobs, colleges, cultural events, and even more than that number of people with disabilities were employed in those countries. By observing Croatia from this perspective, questions are raised whether we will ever reach these standards of care for people with disabilities especially those with difficulty in moving or using help in moving streets, cinemas, theatres and jobs. Here's the D.A. said that even in the ministries, so the government should be the first to take care of the accessibility of their rooms of people with disabilities, not doing what should be done. This prosecutor's report is very extensive, it covers a whole range of people with disabilities and I will only touch a few of them but this is a good basis for changing some things in Croatian society and for people with disabilities to become full members of Croatian society. The European Strategy for Persons with Disabilities 2010 and 2020 points to 8 priority areas and the question is whether in these 8 priority areas Croatia can show that it has done something and has made important steps. Looking at what the D.A. made clear to us this year in her report, I'm not sure we can boast of some big steps. Steps are made, small steps but it is still not enough for people with disabilities to be full members of Croatian society. Just to point to these 8 priority areas, which are accessibility, participation, equality, employment, education and training, social protection, health protection and participation and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities in the context of EU enlargement and the International Development Programmes. Everyone knows but once again to refresh that figure, 512.47 people with disabilities live in Croatia, which accounts for 12.3% of the total population. The stake is somewhere at EU level and at UN level where there are estimated to be around 650 million people in the world with disabilities, making up 10% of the world's population. In Croatia we have a relatively good legislative regulation, we also have a regulation that regulates the employment of people with disabilities, and that is one of the key elements of the inclusion of persons with disabilities in Croatian society, which is that we give them work and education and that they can then normally work and be, to make and to be part of Croatian society. There are also many things regulated by the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This law regulates the right to professional rehabilitation and work and employment of disabled persons, however, the data tell us that as in Croatia we always do not implement good laws in practice because the rights guaranteed by this law are difficult to achieve, and one of these rights is the right to favour the employment of a person with disabilities who the employer is obliged to give if it meets all the required conditions prescribed by advertising or competition. It can also be seen from the examples in the Ombudsman’s report, that the problem with interpretation is who is considered a person with disabilities and what is considered a relevant evidence of disability. A lot of steps were made with a unique body for art, because we were finally able to artificialize people with disabilities from all segments, therefore, and from the social, from work, from the defense population. But there is one more thing that we haven't solved with this unique body, even though a methodology of skill has been passed, which is the question of the disability of people who were defenders and the question of disability of people who were not defenders for the same physical damage, and that is something that creates inequality in society. Another problem is employers' prejudices, although it has been proven that people with disabilities invest more effort and energy in solving tasks and opposite expectations use and less sick than their so-called. healthy colleagues and expect to be trusted in the world of business where the most important age is. The Ombudsman clearly pointed out the problem of education and the problem that very few people with disabilities are in higher education and most stop in primary or secondary education and that the state has not made the steps it had to make, to make it possible for as many persons with disabilities to complete university education, higher education and thus allow them to have a greater chance of employment, but also greater income, which will allow their life to be simpler than it is. The adoption of laws and quota employment was relatively improved when we talk about the employment of persons with disabilities, however, did not come to what we expected and when we passed the law, that this would eventually lead employers to realize that they had to give something to society, and that they did not have to keep taking it from society and that they had to step up, because employment, according to the latest data I had, employment by persons with disabilities through the Croatian Employment Service, grew only 0.3%, while at the same time we have a reduction in the number of unemployed persons, therefore, of all unemployed by as much as 10.8%. This shows that trends in the labour market do not apply equally to all active citizens. When we talk about... employment, it's not good data, it's not as good as we expected, and we keep going around the same number, obviously the Ministry of Labour and the pension system is not making enough effort to force employers to finally start fulfilling their obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because paying employers because they didn't hire people with disabilities isn't what we want. We do not want employers to pay, but to employ persons with disabilities and for the past year from the attorney general's report, 13.41% of them all fulfilled their obligation. According to some data in 20 ministries, only 3 ministries have fulfilled their legal obligation, which is something that is inadmissible and has now been inadmissible for nearly 5 years since the law was passed and in those five years so many people with disabilities could be hired in the ministries to meet the quota. Over 65% of employers do not employ people with disabilities, and they are bonds of remuneration. This led to the payment of 214 million kunas last year for the employment of persons with disabilities or over 2 million kunas more than 2017. It is paradoxical that these funds that should be used to employ people with disabilities lie on the account of the State, the Ministry of Finance and it is clear that Minister Marić is ideal because these funds can spin unambiguously and lastly when we talked about the law, I have repeatedly pointed out that the Ministry of Labour and the pension system must also make programmes and allow these funds to go to employers, these funds are intended for employers to employ persons with disabilities. The D.A.'s office is... I mentioned in my report, but I would put an emphasis on another problem that is related to persons with disabilities, that in Croatia, because we have reduced the level of protection at work every year, an increasing number of people with disabilities, because here, in the last month or two days, two young lives were extinguished a week ago at the Knin factory screws, young people died at the workplace, at the Plac plant they killed 3 workers, lost their lives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these tragedies do not surprise the work protection experts, as they say, employers and the state do not have enough concerns about the safety of workers and according to the latest data, in these first 5 months of this year, the job killed 14 people, and last year, 37th, the Ministry of Defence and Safety at Work was abolished, and all clear what we warned that this reduction and commendation would save about a billion and 200 thousand kuna, resulting in workers being injured, that the number of people with disabilities would increase, and that it was certainly the wrong assessment that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and the government were also thinking about how the problem with the EU Commission would solve and say that we are saving on workers in Croatia, and that the number of deaths in Croatia is increasing. I ask Minister Pavic if he is aware that because of a unilateral decision, he has compromised the health of many workers and that while part of our labour force is leaving, the state has raised its hands from those who remain. She also gave up adequate protection at the level of protection at work and not only that, but at the end of this exhibition, I will mention another group of workers played by HDZ and the Government, who are workers with asbestos. What's the problem with the workers who have been exposed to asbestos is that they expect to get adequate compensation for what they've been doing under conditions that have been unfavourable to them. However, the government, although Prime Minister Plenkovic has promised it, has not passed any law or law in the procedure that would damage it. I note that in 2015, we left the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System of the Law on the compensation of workers exposed to asbestos, which made it clear that all workers living for 5 years in an environment where there was asbestos should be compensated. HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic now say only those workers exposed to asbestos will be compensated from 1991 to 2002 since there has been no asbestos in Croatia. And what about those before 1991? What are they not citizens of the Republic of Croatia? And that's something that worries how the government treats workers. I once again appeal from this stage to finally solve the problem of asbestos workers because by then, five years ago, 164 workers died who had been exposed to asbestos. And it cannot be defined in the law that it is only those who have been exposed to asbestos in the Republic of Croatia, so at the time, since the time of the founding and recognised Republic of Croatia. It's something that's inadmissible. And here, from this pay phone today, I appeal to change it because there is a very simple question. Why doesn't HDZ care about the protection of workers, do they want a cheaper state and less giving? But what I'm also ordering, stop making love and work it out right where it's supposed to be. The number of municipalities, cities, counties, solve the benefits, but do not spare on the health of workers because from this everything I said, while the state saves, workers lose their lives and workers die. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141554	Thank you, too. With us are members and members of the Association of pensioners and old persons of the Municipality of St. Elijah, thank you for being with us and welcome them all with a round of applause, please. ... Let's move on with the clubs. [[Applause.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Pusic in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. She's a lawyer with a co-worker. This is a very good report on a very bad situation. From the very tone and the way this report is prepared and presented, it is seen that this report is even trying to be as optimistic as possible or as positive as possible, given the real situation on the ground, but the data speak for themselves or the data are very well presented and we also consider that the basic starting point that is explicitly stated in this report, which is the attitude towards persons with disabilities is the one that should be supported and that absolutely must be based on any policy towards persons with disabilities, which is that, as the report says, the vision of the Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities is to contribute to the creation of a society of equal opportunities for all citizens in the area of the Republic, for all categories of persons with disabilities in all life segments, all age groups and all areas of their activities. In other words, the rights of persons with disabilities are human and civil rights and any policy towards persons with disabilities should go towards achieving civil equality. So what we have repeated here many times, it is neither charity nor charity, it is a question of the possibility of the political functioning of a society, i.e. ensuring that all members and members of that society can participate as equally in the life of that society. Therefore, all policies must be managed and based on the assumption that this is a policy that allows or should at least allow civil equality. Is that what she's doing? This report shows she's not. I'm just going to quote some information that's listed here. For example, an educational structure that is not only a matter of equal opportunities, but also a question of the quality of life, the quality of that segment of life in which people are educated, and of course the possibilities of quality of life later, the possibility of employment or involvement in the regular functioning of society. So, according to the education structure, 66% of people with disabilities are without a finished primary school or only with a finished primary school. For comparison in the general population there are 40% therefore, almost 60% more people with primary school alone or without primary school among people with disabilities than in the general population. This immediately tells you about the reduction of chances and dramatic inequality between the general population and people with disabilities. If you take middle education or medium professional equipment, 25% have a disabled person with a secondary professional ready, in the general population it is 47%, again, more than, no more, but almost double in the general population there are people with a secondary school than among people with disabilities. If taken as stated in the report, therefore, it is said that there are 505, 725, 505 thousand 725 persons with disabilities, and in working age, there are 240 thousand 173 therefore, who are of life age. And now that you take how many of them are employed, 4.5% of them are employed. Therefore, not 4.5% of the total number of people with disabilities, but of those who are working age is 4.5% of the employees. If from that number of people who are of active age, you take away those who have lost their working ability or are registered as persons with lost working ability, then you exempt them from that group of persons who are working, then 5.5% of people with disabilities in working age, who have a working ability is employed. I think when we see this data, we don't need to go on, it's pretty clear what it's all about. So it's a dramaticly discriminated group of citizens, a dramaticly discriminated group, which in total makes up, so let's say one 13% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. When you look at how many pensions are for people with disabilities it becomes even more dramatic, or, it's not clear in which way, I have to say these people survive. In order to achieve this goal, which the Ombudsman cites as a goal, politics, towards persons with disabilities, which we absolutely support and consider to be not only logical, but is also fundamental to all contemporary literature on policies relating to persons with disabilities, social policy in general, which is precisely the achievement of that civil equality. It is difficult to achieve this goal, in conditions in which we still have something that is completely incomprehensible and totally absurd, which is that the criterion for determining disability and disability benefits is not the type and degree of disability, but the origin of disability. So, if you don't have a leg, you'll get different money if it came to work or if you fell under a tram, rather than if you lost your leg in the war, which is absolutely the opposite of a fundamental idea of social policy, a modern social policy, which is that it should strive to enable people with disabilities to participate equally in society, enable social equality, if you want political equality, in that sense, that every participation in the life of the community is also political participation. The report also lists something that is not only characteristic of people with disabilities, but unfortunately for many other categories, but it is obviously particularly radical here, and these are major differences in the situation of people with disabilities depending on the area in which they live. So, if you are in Zagreb or another 3, maybe 4 bigger cities in Croatia, your life is easier, and if you are out of it, you have a very little chance of using different, say, help or support that you need if you are a person with disabilities to function normally. The D.A.'s office states that he organised four educational workshops in the past year where participants could gain knowledge of the rights of disabled persons etc. This education, this awareness of society, we believe that it must be much more intense or absolutely, is the fact that society is very often treated with people with disabilities as if they were invisible and awareness-raising in schools, in local communities, in any form of gathering organized, about the way and complications for which 90% of people have no idea what kind of complications and what kind of obstacles people with disabilities are facing and why they cannot participate in some aspects of common life that others take as themselves understandable or unquestionable. Therefore, this element of education of course cannot and has no way at all to be the sole responsibility of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, but should be the responsibility of society, it should enter as a topic in schools of the earliest age that children are aware that they are equal citizens who demand and have the right to be equal in their participation in society. I won't have much time to talk about it, but I think it's a very important part of this report, the one relating to the reproductive rights of persons with disabilities, parents' rights and the right to parenting. So the rights that go into intimacy, and very often are treated almost as a luxury when it comes to people with disabilities, as well as this, bread over cake. These are fundamental human rights and the very indication in this report shows the extent to which they are being violated, so sometimes and very brutally, this applies to victims of violence, so the person with disabilities who are victims of violence, where the spectrum is also in the general population, so, people without disability, violence in the family, in the community, very broad, and when dealing with persons with disabilities, it is further radicalising and obtaining additional dimensions, and therefore the additional problem is that, let's say, what we have ratified in HS as an instrument of combating domestic violence, violence against women and children, and this is the Istanbul Convention, is not funded, is not being implemented in practice and not being financed by forms of protection of victims of domestic violence, and then, of course, persons with disabilities. The D.A. here lists 7, more than 7 laws he believes should be intervened in. It proposed a total of 100 provisions for amending and supplementing the legal and sublegal rules. 394 recommendations and warnings to units of local and regional self-government and state authorities and other legal entities. What's up with that? What happened to that? That's hundreds and hundreds, only this here if we add up, one 800 different recommendations, interventions, warnings, what happened to that? We believe, we will certainly support the report, as I said a good report on the poor condition, and we consider it quite a bit. Given the fate of the former Ombudsman for the children, I congratulate you on this report. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141556	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Rechimer Varda's turn in front of the Labour Party Representatives' Club, Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141557	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed attorney, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I will look back on just some details of this report, so that I have little time to look back at the government's opinion. After studying your report to the esteemed attorney, I would also like to commend him for his detailed and systematic work. However, there are many prominent facts and the results of the analysis that we should be concerned about. I will look back on the area of respect for homes and families, which warns about the lack of concrete measures and activities aimed at supporting families. Parents with families. Every parent with or without disability needs support, especially when it comes to first parenting, needs support from family, partner, health care, and when it comes to a parent with disabilities, this support must be stronger and more present. It should last as long as the family assesses that it is necessary until the family strengthens itself and collects all its capacities. Support is not prescribed by law, but is reduced to actions and individual solutions of individual cities, which is unacceptable. You point out that national strategy for equating opportunities for people with disabilities from 2017 to 2020 does not provide for measures that would oblige national and local levels to ensure this basic right for all parents and with disabilities. We must not forget that our country is a signator of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities who clearly prescribes this obligation. I think it is necessary in the next period to work on amending legal legislation and to ensure this right primarily at the state level, and in this sense this club supports your recommendation. In the area of independent life and life carried out, you presented worrying information relating to the violation of the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to their independent life in the community. You see a solution in the systematic resolution of this issue at country level, but also in strong support of the local community. I recall that a master's deinstitutionalisation plan was adopted in 2010 to strengthen and develop the availability of services in the community. And then all of this has kind of stopped since 2014. Unfortunately, I can agree with you when you have determined that the possibility of independent life in the community and life in the community has not yet been realized. We need to change legislation in the field of education, employment in the field of health and social protection so that every citizen with disabilities has equal opportunities for a fair life in his local community. And now he's been working on the government's opinion for a while. I have taken this view of the Government in fact as a report by the Government on actions taken and measures related to your report on your work, or the Office for this Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities in 2018. That's how I figured it out. So here we have another report, the government's report on the measures taken by the ministries, and the only opinion is actually the government in relation to the prosecutor's report that each other's report should be shorter. That's all and I realized that the government actually supports the Attorney General's report, as we support it. The only difference is that as Parliamentarians, we are looking for as much material as possible, as much data as possible, as much analysis as possible, and you, as government representatives, are looking for it summed up. Now, that technology, that's government technology, this is assembly technology. However, speaking of the government's report on measures taken, we are missing a report from the tourism ministry here. The tourism ministry, the lawyer, pointed out here the problems that exist in a tourist offer that is not enriched with accessibility for people with disabilities. I'm not just talking about people with disabilities here, I'm talking about the overall activity of tourism. So, people with disabilities who come to us as guests. The Ombudsman also rightly warns that it is a single resource and economic resource, that Croatia is a tourist country and that it has and can have the consequences of not developing tourism for people with disabilities and not only domestically but abroad. And here, when all these ministries here have been said, in this report, then there should be a report from the tourism ministry on what is thought to be done in relation to the recommendations made by the esteemed attorney in her report. Once again, when, but one small remark to the D.A., when it comes to elevators in multi-state buildings. The attorney general's report is talking somewhere about if I'm not mistaken, about 17,000 and something. I had a meeting with one of the pensioners this morning, I had a meeting with the seniors of 365 Labour and Solidarity Party on the subject of the elevators. The Government's report therefore says, on the basis of a recommendation from the Advocate General in the 2018 report, that, in order to enable the co-financing of the installation of the elevator as a separate activity, and not as part of another call, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers it necessary to ensure the possibility of amending and supplementing the programme to intervene in the construction of the elevator in multi-state buildings, and that the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds will take note of the results and further possibilities for the installation of the elevators, I think, at the end of 2019. So when we're talking about the number, the defense attorney, and I don't think this ministry has established to me how many real residential, multi-state buildings that can be built into elevators. You have a multi-state building where it's not possible for technical reasons. If we do the programme and move towards EU funds, then we should know the exact information. This morning I heard one piece of information that was working somewhere in the City of Zagreb about 700 buildings, 700. I have to admit that I didn't quite realize it was just the City of Zagreb or it's the whole state, but 17 000 and 700 is a big difference and we have to allow normal life in the community because it's not just about people with disabilities, it's about older people. At the end of the line, it is about citizens who should be able to access the apartment, so he would suggest that when we give an assessment or when we talk about numbers, we insist on establishing a real state, and this can be determined through the building manager, through representatives, co-owners of apartments in those buildings if we can really install the elevators, either inside or panoramic. The government has made this hand on the heart, made changes possible, and this House has passed this Construction Act, no more need for a building permit, no more special administrative obstacles to the installation of elevators, but we need to determine the exact number and then we will get the number of funds we actually need to go towards the EU. But in any case, the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club will accept this report, the esteemed attorney, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141558	Thank you, too. Now they are with us and please welcome them, students and students of the Hotel-Tourist School of Opatija, and thank you for being with us, please welcome them. Let's move on with the clubs, Mr. Tomislav Zhagar will speak for the Independent Representatives Club, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141559	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with associates, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I had a need to say something on behalf of the club and a personal name related to this subject, immediately as it is a custom and at the beginning of mass to admit my sins, so I will say I haven't read the report until the end, the report is extremely exhaustive, I've tried to read it, I've read it to a certain piece then I've started to mix up all these great numbers, data, of course, and those concepts of everyone I don't know because I'm not professional enough, but I can talk about this topic in principle and I'm saying, and so I'm going to try to say something. But first of all, I want to see Mrs. McNally too. The elephant congratulates on these almost 11 years now on the head of this institution, on its dedicated work, with its associates in conditions that are not the most optimal, conditions where there are fewer associates and where they have to do extremely extensive work. Namely why I decided to discuss this topic because, unfortunately, persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are pushed to the margins of society, this topic is not marginal, this topic is not at all benign, this topic is extremely important for the whole of society, because here if we mention a number of 500 and a few thousand people with disabilities, let us also consider members of their families, and let us take this particular note when it comes to children with developmental difficulties and their parents, then we really come to the number of major involvements of our citizens in this problem. And what I say I haven't read by the end of the report, the summary I am, I can say this in a vivid way when I've already called on mass, that it's like with the Bible, it's not even necessary to read the whole report like it's necessary to read the whole Bible to understand the message, I understood the message from this report because in some way this report is like a hologram, any part of it to isolate you get the whole picture and that picture is not really good, of course there are significant shifts, it's seen through almost and now 11 years of work of this institution, but it can't satisfy us because all of what happens in our society, all of those weaknesses of the institutions starting from and the system, the health system, the social protection system, the pension system, all these weaknesses of course touch people with disabilities, and exactly those exontically these weaknesses cause problems in people with disabilities, and then they are difficult to protect them. What pleases me as a man who comes from Slavonia and on this congratulatory one is the opening of an area office in Osijek which is extremely good because we have to look at this problem regionally, especially from the point of view of our rural areas, the area in which people with disabilities are now conditionally told, because of the fewer opportunities or accessibility, although nowhere is the most easy place for people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. What my colleague Pusic pointed out very clearly in the report, and this is the system of the educational structure of people with disabilities. There should be significant shifts because this structure is indeed warning. What we say about involving persons with disabilities in the community through all those measures that are being implemented today, the Ombudsman warns and it seems to me extremely important, that we do not use all the opportunities we have, we have 555 units plus one unit of local self-government, 20 counties, cannot save it to associations, programs that are being implemented are not enough or we do not use enough of the potentials that we have, and we should pay more attention to that, I think that the Ombudsman in her report and said that she addressed me to local self-government units, that the letters, how much they actually involved, I don't know, but what this report specifically pointed out, lacks systematic changes and what particularly fell into my eyes and related to the attorney's final thinking, we think that the changes in the system that are the result of daily activities in 2018, are made in a systematic and under different pressures, and without the right to end the rights and the need to protect themselves. There are no special rights for people with disabilities, there are human rights, they are universal. Persons with disabilities have human rights and those rights must be equal for everyone. Just because someone in a particular segment has bodily impairment or reduced ability doesn't mean that his human rights in this sense need to be smaller, and to do so, it takes a truly systematic approach to all, starting with us MPs in the Parliament, through the government of the Republic of Croatia, the competent ministries to the units of local self-government. Without this systematic work, we will not achieve the goal. I congratulate your attorneys on your work with your associates, the report of course should be commended, I say, it's so extensive that there, don't mind, but here I am as a representative, I failed to finish it, I failed to capture all the data because the data is strong, I'm not sufficiently educated, I'm not a doctor, I wasn't in that system enough. I've been working with children with developmental difficulties for a while, but here, the report is good, and I hope it will serve all of us to make serious and better moves to make life easier and better for people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141560	We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Ivan Celich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney, the respected secretary of state, the secretary of state, at first, I will refer to a chapter relating to personal freedom and security as a person who has worked for 17 years with people with mental disorders. I'll say something that can be seen from this report, say something they're aware of in the ministries. People with mental disorders are stigmatized. And not just in the Republic of Croatia. People with mental disorders have been stigmatized around the world, somewhere more, somewhere less, and I believe this report on the work of the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities will contribute to making this Stigmatization as little as possible. When we talk about accommodation without consent based on art. 26 The Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, therefore, regardless of children with developmental difficulties or persons with mental disorders, although the approval for accommodation is given by a legal representative, always needs to be asked about consent and the person who has a legal representative. There is a problem of poor incapacitation and insufficient professional staff when we talk about child adolescent psychiatry. It is also conscious of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy and the Ministry of Health. What I am pleased is that the health administration has not accepted any suggestion that the development of child adolescent psychiatry be near the capacity to treat adults with mental disorders. In fact, in the long run, we will have to wait for a more serious solution to be obtained only within the National Children's Hospital. Until then, the Ministry of Health is making efforts to stand alone and strengthen capacities in the KBC in Zagreb. There are some bright examples also in the context of solving the problem of autistic spectrum disorder, which is a huge problem in the Republic of Croatia. We can't boast there, but cooperation with UNICEF and the Ministry of Health and the development of a pilot project in KBC Osijek, I believe it will be an example of good clinical practice that will then be extended to the Republic of Croatia, but I would say here that, apart from children and adolescents, a much bigger problem at this point has a person of older age who has certain mental disorders and when we talk about human rights violations, let's say, in somatic hospitals, you'll see the situation many times, the treatment ends, the person gets fired and there's no layoffs. I mean, when we talk about people of older age, who have certain mental disorders, unfortunately, we have a rare situation that these people have nowhere to be located, have no family support and stay in psychiatric hospitals longer, although medical treatment has ended. So, the medical indication is complete, but that social indication unfortunately still exists and in the absence of a quality solution for the accommodation of such persons, this person stays longer in psychiatric hospitals. It is beautifully highlighted in this report, therefore, and is encouraged to develop services to support independent life in the community, transforming into community service centres, we definitely need to reduce hospital capacities and need to be in a strategy for a period of 10 years, and when you mention that you get resistance from certain professional circles, we do not need so many psychiatric beds and psychiatric hospitals, especially on islands. It is an outdated principle of both these hospitals and how they can serve for health purposes, they should be strategically redesigned for health tourism, here I think of Ugljan and Rab because it is precisely out of the desire for people with mental disorders to be moved from the environment and psychiatric hospitals are founded on islands. The protection of mental health in the community progresses, slowly, we would all like it to go much faster, however, I will mention one example, therefore, of Croatia and Sweden. So the price for one day in the Croatian psychiatric hospital is 550 kuna, the price for one day in the psychiatric department in Sweden is, you wouldn't believe 12 thousand kuna. This is what the Secretary of State Pleikosa said, so we must be aware of the situation in which we live, the financial resources we have and this report, as well as what the government report actually says reflects the real picture of the Croatian society in which we are. The business ability, therefore, with changes no longer takes away the full take-off of business ability, but partly and there are certain progress and revaluations in people who are completely deprived of their business ability, it goes slowly again and for financial reasons, sometimes there are some misunderstandings and there should actually insist that the Centres for Social Care are those who have the greatest responsibility to transfer the ball from one institution to another, unfortunately, to make sure that it is as little as possible. I will briefly refer here to certain recommendations, and in line with the opinion of the Committee on the interpretation of the 2015 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. where it is actually recommended that forensic psychiatric departments be abolished and that persons with the right mental illness who can't commit a crime, but the traits of a criminal offence. So in our national legislation, but also in most EU countries, therefore, because they did not commit a crime, but the characteristics of the crime are situated on forensic psychiatric departments. I invite you all, therefore, from the Department of Attorney's Office of Persons with Disabilities to come to our new department where it's definitely a much better standard. Of course, it would be best if there were no people in that department who needed such help, but I think that apart from this therapeutic part, it is very important to have a rehabilitation, rehabilitation procedure, to keep the duration of treatment as short as possible and to continue the extra-bolical form of treatment and thus also to help develop a municipal psychiatry or protect mental health in the community. The institution of social care should be, but there shouldn't be so many. I look positively at this shift to the better development of foster families that have a tradition, although I would like, therefore, to have problems when a person from Zagreb ends up in Dubrava Vrboveckoga or somewhere, so these are all some objective problems and it would be better if there were no such need for foster families, than for a person to be better involved in the local community in which she is, but here I will only read in the end what are the basic principles of the Household Act that has been in force since 1 January 2019, I think it is a shift for the better, although it would be better for the person to stay in the environment of his family, but as I mentioned, therefore, some people have no place to go after the hospital treatment. The principle of the best interest of users, the principle of equality in the family environment, the principle of sustainability of social ties, the principle of inclusion and in the end, no less important, the principle of prohibition of discrimination, these are the basic principles contained in the opening part of the Household Act, all of which are together, I believe that we are all on the same path here that the stigmatization of persons with mental disorders is as small as possible and that the quality of life of persons, I have limited myself here, in the person with disabilities to persons with mental disorders, will be better and I believe that, with the work of the attorney and her associates, every day the situation in the Republic will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141562	Thank you. Mr. Sladolev was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Cellic, in the debate you only touched one, therefore, items concerning the problems of children suffering from autism. I personally think that we are here in a vacuum, therefore, that there is the worst situation in Zagreb, especially in the City of Zagreb, a few months ago a woman came to us, we came to her, she has a child who has autism, it is already an adult child, she is over 20 years old. And he's got a transport problem. So, she lives on Trešnjevci, the Rehabilitation Centre is in town and she can't simply come with her child to the center because she doesn't have her own car, public transport she can't come, so, because the child has difficulty and simply one good man answered, a taxi driver who drives her free every day. So these are specific problems, I say autism and children with autism, so we don't think we've found adequate solutions here and that's where we should work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141564	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141565	Well, my colleague, Sladolev, I agree with you, I think that as far as people with autistic spectrum disorders are concerned, the situation in the Republic of Croatia is the worst. A situation that should not go towards institutional accommodation of people with autism, but the greater the inclusion, the greater the involvement of the family, unfortunately, the lack of professional staff, but in some situations, it seems to me, too, have run us through a little time, and I think it should, with due respect to those with a higher education rehabilitation college, have a more modern approach which will then help and persons with autistic spectrum disorder, but also members of their families, on which there is certainly a great burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141566	Also, the replica was asked for by Mrs. Crescent. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141567	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Cellic, you mentioned in your debate several times as an excuse for, let's say, an inadequately arranged system, the financial insufficiency of the state. However, in some ways they may agree, although we are still very much, much less singled out for a disabled person system than it should be or what is being set out in other countries, but nothing justifies us, especially this government or ministry, does not justify it when they are not using enough EU funds, such as. with, due to the lack of use or insufficient withdrawal of European funds, we were unable to reprogramme or cannot reprogramme some programs and then let's say this elevator for several residential buildings that are not equipped with elevators and in which live persons, older persons or persons with disabilities, cannot be applied Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. [[Intruder: Thank you]] such a contest. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141568	Answer, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141569	My colleague Celic, I did not justify anyone, as regards the European Funds you mentioned, and even specifically about the elevators, I could now politically respond that the priorities were set by the Government of Zoran Milanovic on the basis of which they are absorbed from European funds. I know that you are socially sensitive and I think that all of us together just want to say what a real picture is, that's not only a reason for us to stay in this situation but that we all agree that we give all persons with disabilities equal chances of employment, not just in terms of treatment or any services of tourism as already mentioned. We can all do a lot more together, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141570	We're moving on with individual debates. - Mrs. Crescent. Maria Alfirev is on her way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141571	Thank you, Vice President. Here after the presentation on behalf of the club, I have had and I need to say some more things through this individual debate because I think that some things when it comes to persons with disabilities that all together really have to be even stronger and stronger advocated, and no matter what some positive developments are done, they are still extremely small and still require a stronger voice of the persons with disabilities, parents, but also of the grey others who are in a position to influence the policies and general development of the system on all those who are able to influence the attracting of different means, in this case we are talking about EU funds, therefore to all those who, and then we can talk about it really about all and the media, that in a positive way but indeed pointing to all those situations in which human rights are violated, the rights of persons with disabilities, should be pointed out and more strongly talked about it. So we need to hear an even stronger voice in this House when it comes to the right people with disabilities. I would therefore point to a part of the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities but also to the part that the government has given through its opinion and which is very different. The Ombudsman gave a strong and clear opinion when it comes to the part relating to independent life and then to the development of services in the community, expressing her concern that there has been a stalemate in the process of deinstitutionalisation or transformation of the institutions themselves, long-term accommodation, so that there has been a stalemate in the past year, 2017 or 2018, but also that there has been no stronger development of services in the community itself and that is the problem because you cannot, at the same time, do not work without each other. And what we must or what we should really expect and the public expects of all of us, but people with disabilities especially expect, is that every year there is some progress, and now that we have a situation that is not only written but really supported by facts and then it says that there is no progress, then we have to ask ourselves why this has happened, which is real, why this is not happening, what has changed and what happened in Croatia if there are no new shifts. The more these last days, speaking about the situation in Croatia, the government often boasts and urges that there are simply more financial resources, that there is a better situation in the state, that we have more opportunities for some budget items, so we are wondering why in this work and in this work there is no movement. In particular, the Advocate General, and I agree here, because I read this document, is talking about the deinstitutionalisation plan, transformation, prevention and institutionalisation that the ministry brought in at the end of last year, and in fact there is no clear concrete information on how it will be implemented, what steps it is, how the process will be implemented at all, the further process of deinstitutionalisation, and whether this ministry is really focused on what this government is saying, and it seems to me that it has to say just to take advantage of some of the EU's assets but the real, real hodogram, there really isn't any real concrete data. What is confusing at least is also the fact that in the deinstitutionalisation, transformation, prevention and institutionalisation plan by 2000, it means another year, although it was adopted in late 2018, for 2018 until 2020, it means that some categories of users for which it is actually, would be worth hearing, is it even possible for those categories of users to even come into a position to be institutionalised and whether they could ever be institutionalised and why they are then in this plan at all. You have, here you are, therefore, talking about victims of human trafficking, talking about homeless people, talking about victims of domestic violence, which is why everything requires the development of services in the community for these user groups, however, whether they really fall into this process, a plan for deinstitutionalisation and transformation of social care institutions, especially when we talk about people with disabilities. It seems to me to me that these user groups are being introduced, in order to somehow cloud the whole process and to get one feeling that it is working on, on the very plan of deinstitutionalisation, and that actually persons with disabilities, especially those with the highest degree of difficulty, say persons with mental impairment, intellectual damage or persons with autism, will, therefore, come to another plan and will remain in institutions with long-term accommodation, which certainly would not be progressing and would not be good. Because it really means that Croatia does not move at least small steps forward but stagnates or goes backwards. What we need, what we really need in Croatia, when we talk about these very categories, these people, is that they can actually speak very little on their own behalf, and we don't have a developed system of good representation, legal representation of persons to whom, in part, we're talking today, taken away from business ability. Therefore, they are also placed in an institution in the care of all, not individuals themselves, who in any way can decide whether or where they want to live and what they would be pleased with. Likewise, if they are located at some point or are granted a service to which they can later and change that decision and how much they are allowed to speak in their own name. So, a very, very complex process, a complex complex complex of all complex services, but also the need and possibilities that persons should have at their disposal, and if they don't connect together, then we really won't have one good system, and I say, if we don't go one step forward every year, then we're going to have what's written in the attorney's report that there's been a stalemate, and when we're talking about something that's stalled, and we're talking about, and on the other hand, we're saying that Croatia currently has more resources than it had 5 years ago, then it's a worrying process, and it should certainly be turned over in the coming years. Here, once again, I commend the attorney general's work, but I hope so, too. recommendations from the ministry to be respected in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141572	Three replicas. He was the first to look for Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141573	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague Alfirev. Among other things, you're saying that the government boasts of surplus funds or surpluses that one part of these funds should be rerouted to persons with disabilities, but I don't know how much you follow that scene, specifically in EU countries related to people with disabilities, I'm glad to compare ourselves with those of the strongest countries such as Scandinavian countries, Germany or Austria, but, you'll admit, they have one practice, a long-term practice, almost 50 or 60 years in relation to people with disabilities, and here we are, this year, for 10 years, we actually have a jubilee of the Polish Ombudsman persons with disabilities. So certain things have been done and should be highlighted, and they are that the material status of persons with disabilities is improved and we have to admit that and the benefits have been increased in the fight against poverty and social inclusion of disabled people. In a system way, it's arranged children's rights with children with disabilities [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the assistants in the course, etc., etc., should therefore be talked about positive examples. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Of course, I'll look back at what the D.A. is. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141574	- Mrs. Crescent. Alfirev, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141575	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Babić, yes, but here's the hand on the heart, you are on this side of the pay phone and you can really talk about all the successes, and we should commend each and every one of us therefore and personally and as a club we support all those suggestions that come from your side and we will support them because if they go towards improving the lives of people with disabilities. However, let's not just talk about good things because there are a very, very large number of those who are not fulfilling, so here we are still talking to people, parents and associations of people with disabilities who point out, especially to the still bad position of people with autism, the lack of a quality system for early intervention, and that's all this government can at least start to do and there's your responsibility to start it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141576	- Mrs. Crescent. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141577	Thank you very much, Vice President. counterpart Alfirev, among other things, mentioned the withdrawal of EU funds for projects that would help disabled people and thus in some way criticised that they could not install elevators into multi-state facilities. At the very beginning, I would say that I also support the installation of elevators in multi-state buildings, but it is important to know that no country could withdraw it, as an independent project of installing an elevator in several residential buildings, but as part of an energy reconstruction of buildings. In the Republic of Croatia, 596 multi-state buildings were running for such a competition, and none of them put in their project the installation of the elevator, which could have been. This was used only by public buildings, so we have 775 public buildings that used EU funds for energy recovery and thus installed 9 elevators and 14 platforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141578	The answer to Mrs. Crescent's Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141579	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Juričev Martinchev, however, it is clear to me that you are saying this from your position, because you must, indeed, also defend the Minister of Regional Development and European Funds, I understand that. However, there is another side of the story, therefore, a huge effort has been made by the associations themselves, I think that HT pensioners have made a huge effort to survey all possible users, a huge effort has been made to analyse and identify the needs of all people and possible solutions in order to create a new competition, to reprogramme, however, due to the poor withdrawal of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141580	Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, here's what I'm going to do for the installation of these elevators, we've been talking about for a very long time, but just one sentence, I'd like to know, and I'm saying that because a lot of people, representatives, tenants, who wanted to install the elevators in their buildings, unfortunately the tenants disagreed. I'm for the elevators, to be clear, and if it were up to me, no building would be without an elevator, but I just wanted to mention this, if it were known, that these problems existed, too. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just going to say for deinstitutionalization, my opinion is that we're still a little prematurely moving into it, not too soon, but too soon, and I'm afraid we're going to have to work out a little bit more and more together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141582	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141583	My colleagues Lukačić, which actually means too soon, either too brave or too quick for people who have no opportunities, who have lived in an institution for 30-40 years. I'm not saying that people don't take care of them very well, however, whether it really is a life for every man, whether these people ever came in a position to decide on their own behalf, whether they ever came in a position to speak for themselves. Did they ever come in a position to say if they were good or bad, did they ever come in that position? That's the key. We're really talking about human rights here. We are really talking about human rights, and how the state will regulate the am system, then it needs to be handled wisely, as is possible at that moment, but looking over and over again every year, to feel progress in respecting itself and the conventions and all other international documents, persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141584	Thank you. Now it'll be Mrs. Gossip. Luke's talking,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a few more words I didn't get to say on behalf of the club, and about this report, and I think it's extremely important. The Ombudsman noted that these are legal regulations that should be amended in this year as well, in order to improve the status of persons with disabilities. We, fortunately, have already brought some of them, such as the Law on Dogs Guides, and Rehabilitation Dogs, and here I am especially pleased, because this law has been waiting for many years, the last one was passed in 1998. We haven't said much about the judiciary today, and I have to say, in that part, as far as legislative regulations are concerned, we have made a big step. We brought it in 2018. The law on court fees, which has been introduced by disabled persons inside, as persons who do not have to pay a court fee. By then they were all, they were defenders, etc. But there was no person with disabilities. I want to mention the spin center here. Here, the secretary of state will certainly be able to confirm what I'm saying here today, and the prosecutor said in the report, that last year a spin centre project was presented, the funds were secured, and I'm sure that next year, when we discuss, the attorney's report, that we'll be able to say that it started with the construction of the spin center. It's been waiting a long time, but it's really a center that people with disabilities need, it's a centre that needs people who suffer and who today, I dare say, don't have adequate care with the best will, everyone who works in the Varazdin spas, who is trying, who wants to give best care and care, but the spaces there are such that it's simply not possible to do what would be necessary. The Spinal Center will be something I believe the Association of Persons with Disabilities will welcome with great enthusiasm. As I was saying, as far as deinstitutionalization is concerned, it seems to me that we are going into deinstitutionalisation with a good intention of 2014. with a big and really good intention, but it seems to me that we're still going maybe too fast, maybe in time, but it's too fast. We emptyed out, specifically when we talk about the City of Zagreb, two centres overnight, overnight. Were we then prepared to place all those people with disabilities in residential communities? Me personally, that's my personal opinion, I'm not so sure. When we talk about a third center that was, which has not been completely emptied yet, and it has actually been, I would say the student home of the Centre for Education and Education, which today, of the previous 200 protégés, has about 30 today. That center has turned into, I'd say, I don't know, if it can be said babysitting, it's no longer the school I remember from the old days. I don't see the problem why it wouldn't still be the school as it was and had that part of the dormitory home because many schools are not close to home and many are easier to stay in the dormitory and attend school when we talk about disability, easier and simpler, and believe that many people with disabilities are very welcome to, I'm going to say this now, some of them may not accept both hands, but many do well to get a little bit and separate from their parents, so when they're placed in a school home, they're not separated from their family, they like all the other students, they go to their families, but they're sure they have a dormitory home and they have the school that they're supposed to be, now that kind of school isn't. But I believe that, that we will certainly come to that knowledge that it may be too soon and too soon we have gone into the process of deinstitutionalisation in this way as it has begun because many Scandinavian desires are returning to institutionalization, I am not and I think it is not good, that we need to do everything to make as many persons with disabilities come out of institutions, but in a way that will be long-term and that will be quality, so it takes a lot of money. I am quite sure that this government is going in this direction, I know that because we are talking about it and we are looking at together to make the way that would be best in the framework of the government's Commission for Persons with Disabilities, and I must say that this government is really considering how to solve the problem of people with disabilities. Today we had a chance to hear that this is a good report for, I would say something terrible or very bad, so I would say that this situation in the Republic of Croatia is as much, much better than before just 3, 4 years, much better, we do, we try, we people with disabilities are the ones who need to say what is needed for us and what we think our problems should be solved. I am happy that we have just come into such a position that we can also say that some remarks on certain legal regulations given by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities have not been accepted by certain ministries, that does not mean that the Government does not listen to persons with disabilities. I'm not going to say that the attorney's remarks weren't good, that they weren't good, but maybe it was different to think of them, maybe it wasn't time for such steps, different ways were, we know that the attorney and I, because we've talked a lot about it, and the government knows very well about it since the attorney and I usually don't, I'm not going to say, but we're usually on the same side when it comes to people with disabilities, and there's no two sides, and the government is on the same side, just good to listen to our people with disabilities, I'm glad that it started to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141586	Thank you very much. Before you continue on behalf of the club you have one replica of Mrs. Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141587	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lukačić, it is good that you said that you are actually speaking for yourself and that this is your position, your personal experience and I really respect your personal experience and I believe that it is sincere because what you have said now I am afraid that it is neither in accordance with the Convention, is not in line with all those efforts of modern times when we talk about giving or enabling parents or children as much as possible of a better quality of life in the family itself, to provide support in all possible ways, and not to seek out and even in some small part, as you say, a student home. Today when all parents are struggling so hard to keep the children As long as possible, you actually advocate in some way institutionalization [[Intruder: Time.]] And fortunately it's still your... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141588	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a baby doll.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141589	Thank you very much. Don't be afraid, pal. Me, be assured that I and the D.A. and all of us together, and I expect you to help us. Maybe sometimes we won't do things the best, but there's you, to help us, there's all of us together to do the best thing are ever children with developmental difficulties, their parents, and people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141590	Now you've got five minutes left on behalf of the club. Here you go. 88th.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, esteemed attorney. My colleagues and colleagues. I still need to say a few more words finally on behalf of the HDZ Club when it comes to this comprehensive report by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. We had a chance today to hear different opinions about the report, but what's important is that everyone thinks the report is good. I'd like to say something for the end. My personal opinion that the biggest problem is that we do not actually understand people with disabilities many of us do not experience the majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with disabilities equal. Unfortunately, I have to say it because it is. We've improved a lot, it's much better than before, but we all have to work together, but every single one of us and every single one of you and I personally and the D.A. and every one of us and all of us are working together to raise awareness of people with disabilities. We can talk exhausted, talk about rights, human rights, conventions, about a convention that Croatia has signed as 3rd country in the world and does everything possible to make the status of people with disabilities better and better. But until we raise consciousness, until we break the barriers to people's heads, we won't achieve much. I believe that we will all do everything together to make the status of persons with disabilities truly in the Republic of Croatia one higher level. Then employers won't wait to pay the fee they have to pay if they don't hire a disabled person but will hire a disabled person so he won't need a replacement quota. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141592	Thank you, and now the closing statement will be given by the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities, ma'am. Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141593	Honorable parliamentary deputies, respected Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministry representatives and co-workers. I thank you, here is the opportunity to give the final word after discussing the Advocate General's Annual Report for Persons with Disabilities for 2018. We have heard a lot of comments here, it is obvious that some of you have read some of the reports, some of them, some of them, some of them, it's too extensive, some of them are like this, but what I would like to say in front of the office, in front of the institutions, in front of my employees and ourselves, in fact this report, means from the beginning, we've been working on the principle of being the indicator of the position of persons with disabilities, that as an example we actually draw closer to each individual, that whoever reads, regardless of whether he's an intellectual, whether he's a person who doesn't have adequate knowledge of people with disabilities, whether it's someone who does PhD tomorrow, someone from the international community is looking for information about persons with disabilities in the Republic, and very often our reports are the source of information, because when you don't have a single document that in one way to show the position with our report. As an institution, we are interested in it being comprehensive, that whatever we can and what is of some sort, I will not say to the details, but some indicator of the situation in a particular year or any of the opportunities and changes that are needed, as a result of actually these submissions of persons with disabilities, that in fact everyone can be informed, everyone can use these data, but what if you noticed little that report has and recommendations, or practically we offer ready solutions in many regulations, and what I must say is that according to all our powers come out. Very often in our recommendations we give way to even local and regional self-government units, but very often to the ministries exactly what I said. So the ready-made solutions that need to be applied. Do these 30% of what's respected, little or much, we think it's small because I have to set an example for example. in one of Finland, when a lawyer's office sends recommendations to the government or to the body that makes certain changes that it accepts without compromise because, in fact, the institution of an attorney in a state is actually a body that is a company-adjusted body that has the possibility and must do everything in fact to use what the Ombudsmans are offering, because they are actually offering the state and are in fact in some way helping the state. What I wanted to further point out is that one big problem for people with disabilities is that, that is, the exercise of their rights which many, many of the rights are actually very often shown in legislative solutions through the competences of several ministries. In many decisions or many provisions, one is, for example, the ministry. Education, the second is the Ministry of Social Care, the third Ministry of Health, very often through all those final decisions are intertwined especially when we talk about very important rights such as the right to health, when we talk about early intervention services, when we talk about the rights of people with autism or disorders from the autistic spectrum, when we talk about people with intellectual impairments, especially with multiple damages. So there is a whole complex of thinking, opinions and attitudes of institutions that should actually be far more effective and faster in making those decisions that are of primary importance to the lives of people with disabilities. I must say that what she mentioned, the document by Mrs. Parliamentarian Alfirev regarding early interventions, it has been brought since 2017. That decision came to our attention just recently, not maybe ten days, and I'm glad she finally came. But on the other hand, right at the beginning, we pointed out that this would actually be a problem in terms of the system's trombone. Our system is extremely steep in making decisions, and people with disabilities have no time. Children grow up, health cannot wait, nor can they wait and we have seen both in, about art and all other systems that are very important for people with disabilities to often die and not to get their rights. It said here, I'm going to go through these a little bit, given that I haven't replicated some discussions, for example. to support parenting. I believe that, in this area, we have been given in respect of the respect of homes and families and the response of the Ministry of the Family in which they have highlighted all the demographic measures they are taking, however, and the support they provide for people with disabilities, including interpreters and translators, personal assistants, etc. However, the problem of parenting and support that is needed is actually not adequately shown anywhere, so when it happens that a family in which a person with disabilities is a potential parent, in fact, when it happens that there should be some coverage and reproductive rights, and later and later, when a child starts to grow up, we see that we have an extraordinary problem in such families because they simply do not have the adequate support they need. There can't be a personal assistant he simply be available, it's far, far bigger and more subtle and more systematic should be a solution because at this point he's gone. Community support for services is, in fact, the development of services in the community, something we have been talking about for years. The process of deinstitutionalisation didn't begin either with Minister Opačić and Šoroš, nor with Stančić, the process of deinstitutionalisation began long ago, takes place over 20 years ago, which began when the first Rehabilitation Centre in Sloboština started with a certain development of services in the community, etc. So that's something that's been going on for years. We are not just talking about how we will move someone out of an institution and place them in a local environment, but about the development and expansion of institutions, that we, in fact, as a Croatian society for traditional years, as a state, as a nation, are making one big direction that is wrong, which is that in many segments and areas we have established special institutions where we have directed both children and adults with disabilities regardless of whether we are talking about education, regardless of whether I am talking about accommodation. And for that very reason we have that legislative legislation that says very clearly that the form of discrimination is segregation in every form. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination provides that. We have the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities signed and ratified by the Republic of Croatia and... has certain obligations to her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a society, we are also members of the EU, the European Community, which is clearly focused on the process of deinstitutionalisation, i.e. to keep persons with disabilities in their environment, according to their choice, according to their own wishes, their needs with law and to know where they will live, who they will live with, how they will live. We unfortunately don't have it today. Few individuals, almost none, at least what we know from our knowledge were not asked whether she would have with her in one apartment the person who corresponds to her at all, in which way it would be organised and how this support would be provided and what we see and that the problem had arisen. What Mrs. Lukacic's parliamentary representative said about the rapid development of deinstitutionalisation, in fact, he was not too fast, but he was badly implemented. Neither was it prepared, nor were the workers prepared, nor were the users prepared, nor were the parents prepared. It took place in a way that was very non-transparent, very bad for those who were then involved in that part and those years. However, what is good today is that we have the development of services in the community, that, or services in the community, we have persons who are in an organised housing and in some other way taken care of and who actually live a far better quality life than they have lived in institutions. I think one of our fundamentals, in fact, is the thought that we very often forget that “don’t do to another what you don’t want someone to do to you. ” I would never, ever want to live in an institution or want someone to put me in an institution, not ask me how I'm going to live with, who I'm going to live with, what way, but just tell me if you don't have anyone to live with, here's the social care she decided you'll live with, live from Zagreb in a foster family in I don't know Vrbovačka dubrav. I just think I'd end up in psychiatry rather than going into that foster family. We simply do not have developed transparency, communication, respect for the rights and wills and wishes of the person we bring about extremely, extremely important and important roles in life, continuation where and how and with whom they will live. Many young people unfortunately because of the lack of services in the community live today in homes of older and powerless, living with, in an environment that is what it is, unfortunately we have nothing else to offer that person because there are no services missing in the community and it has no adequate support. It's not life, it's survival. They don't have there, it's not their home, they don't have their ability to influence anything but to listen to what the director, or those around them, give them to do and to do and without adequate involvement in the life of the community. When we talk about housing we as an institution are from the very beginning when we look at the reports stressing how important the apartment is and how important it is, regardless of this accessibility... No matter what kind of damage we're talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is also for people with physical damage, especially those with reduced mobility and who are users of orthopaedic aids but we also have a problem with persons with other damages, especially sensory ones. When we talk about this kind of housing, we have made our proposals and we are continuing to give to this area in accordance with and with a convention that is in fact clearly saying that there is a need to constantly improve the appropriate standard of living and constantly... the conditions, living conditions of a person no matter what age we are talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have given support and support to all the activities that are in this area, especially what was taken up by the pensioners' club of Croatian Post, this coordination team headed by Mr. Manenico and we are all involved in all and, as far as possible, activities related to the area of accessibility and housing and installation of elevators. And what we're saying as an institution, we haven't conducted an analysis of residential buildings but they have spent, they have an exact list of those residential buildings that are more detailed, but what Mrs. Lukacic mentioned, we have one big, big problem that our society is very unsensitized, we are very self-involved, I can say and selfish because when a person lives in a building on some ground floor and we don't need an elevator very often there's an obstacle to other tenants to build an elevator and in a way we won't participate because we don't need that elevator and what they need, others, let them manage. We have a problem that residents are very often very unsensitized and very often make decisions of their own free will in such a way that they don't even inform other tenants, i.e. the owners of apartments in certain buildings, in order to inform them at all about the needs of possible installation of elevators or some other kind of element for overcoming altitude differences. When it comes to accessibility, I would still point out that in that part of us and the public legal bodies and all those who are obliged to make space and buildings accessible, I must say that as far as the judicial network and the judicial authorities are still inaccessible, somehow they have shown the most of that intensity for making accessible objects, however, there is a whole series of legal persons who, especially those who are privately owned, who often give us an answer, that is not our obligation, we do not need to do so. We also have a lot of problems not to cooperate with those who make changes with the Associations of Persons with Disabilities, I call them on this way to cooperate because very often there is a problem and some elements that are provided in the Regulation are not adequate, adequate for people with disabilities. As an example, I will give you a platform that is very much embedded in certain spaces, from post office etc., because as a little cheaper than the elevator, so it would be very easy to install, but I will tell you an example that I in Zagreb in some places which I was invited to do as an exhibitor, I could not access from the fact that this platform was 1m long from safety, this, as it is said, the fence could not be brought down for reasons why I am long in the cart 1.20m. You need to know that no person with disabilities in the wheelchair is the same, each one has its own specific measures, and so that standard which is currently in the rule is not adequate in some segments and will also need to be changed. Can we move on? As for the accessibility of tourism, we have indeed, in tourism, been constantly from year to year, especially since we took part in the Committee, namely the Parliamentary Committee on Tourism, where recommendations were made in 2014. and 2015, so we try to point out to everyone wherever it is possible because, as I said, if we really want to exploit the potential that we have from people with disabilities, then we really have to ask ourselves and gather and simply make tourism accessible. Many families come, ask where we can come with our child or family member who is disabled, but unfortunately, we still don't have the tourist facilities that would offer them adequately because there's always something missing. As far as I'm concerned, you might add this, and I'd say that in fact all of you who are parliamentary representatives are either mayors or mayors and are actually in your particular segments making decisions, making certain changes, affecting, among other things, these benches on the awareness and conscience of citizens and making a certain picture of society as such, and I think that you have one big and important role just to make changes in these local environments. Many people with disabilities complain and say that there are not enough resources in their environments, the problems are for different services, the problem is with accommodation, the problems are with associations operating at local levels because very often they do not receive adequate resources so that they can also implement the minimum programmes implemented at local level and I think it is important that certain plans, certain strategies, actually some documents that will be guidelines for a certain period, whether in the short term or in the long term, be brought into some areas of some change. I think that the national strategy has been adopted, it is here, but when we re-examined the area, in this case Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, it is evident that many cities and, even the counties, have not yet brought in any strategy, nor plans, nor have they had commissioners, nor a commission for people with disabilities. How we're going to change something in the local environment if you don't hear the voice of those who are your citizens and your citizens and who actually have something to say and have both knowledge and experience and can help make life of these citizens and their environments better and better at local level. And in this part of it, I would also like to say that we, as the Ombudsman, have been pointing to various problems for many years, to various changes, to offer solutions, to cooperate with institutions, and to cooperate further, of course, because we are all here together so that the lives of people with disabilities and children with development difficulties and their families will be better. However, what I find sad is that 10. It takes minimal to make some small shifts, I know that some processes take far more time, but somewhere where there are logical solutions really need to do everything to make these changes and decisions right away. Here, thanks for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141594	Thank you, ma'am. Attorney General. You have two replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141595	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Attorney General, as you know, will be from 1.1.2020. We had an interparliamentary meeting about MPL for people with disabilities this year... in Brussels and in fact there we were able to see through all EU member states how and in what way they actually work with people with disabilities, there are good and bad things and I think that we as a country are not there somewhere at the top, but we are not at the bottom and for a lot of things and a lot of our solutions that we have shown there are actually others surprised and some countries are simply not and are not. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's important is that you, like other attorneys, talk a lot about discrimination, here is some 188 cases, but from 15, 16, 17 is 90, 90 from 2018. So, this discrimination keeps repeating itself through these reports. Which is, it's not definitely good and what I'm going to fight, it's an amount of 505. [[Intruder: Time.]] thousands of people with disabilities, I think there are too many, that's 14 almost% of the population. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And that's not allowed. [[Thank you, Mr. Babic.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141596	You'd like to answer, ma'am. An elephant? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141597	I couldn't agree more about the statistical data, the Register Act, should work on it, such as Mrs. Lukacic said, surely certain changes will be made, these are people they call disabled, we know well that they are persons with various damages, different ages, different... And of course what's clear, you should say that not every person can have all the rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must work to ensure that the system is just, focused on those who need the kind of rights that are adequate for their remaining functional abilities. As long as we have a situation that we do everything linearly, so far the simple system is chaotic and not just. Many people with disabilities, because of their lack of strength, lack of voice, and simply cannot get to the microphone and say what is bothering them, remain deprived of those rights that are extremely important to them and important for them to function at all. And that's why they actually stay simple in... And you can't hear them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141598	- Mrs. Crescent. It's a baby doll.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141599	Thank you. Your Honor, the attorney general. As far as your recommendations are concerned, I just want to tell you that you can be calm in some way because others are listening to your recommendations, so this year, you remember well how much you warned, and also colleague Martinchev today said that the Ministry of Defence is calling for an accessibility tender. There was a year when no one answered that contest. This year, 32 units of local regional self-government will split a million and a half kuna. So, the fruit is caused by your recommendations and here, we believe that out of these million and a half kuna, something will be invested in tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141600	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141601	Thank you. I mean, as for the Ministry of Defence, all those who are units of local and association, I think they need to know and work on it every year in the 3rd or 4th month, the Croatian Defence Department is calling for this contest, a million and a half kuna is already at their disposal for many years. We in our report have been constantly describing it for the past 7 years, putting on the website that information when this competition is going on, because I think it's important that these funds are also exploited, but of course they're not the only ones, there are far, far greater, far greater needs. I'd just like to tell the MP, is he there? I guess he's here, Grandma. I don't know if it's there, I don't see very well behind it, that I would certainly like to consult more about Croatia's EU presidency, because I think we should contribute more to co-operation. Our office was just now in Austria, when there was an Austrian presidency because there was an attorney-in-Office of theirs for people with disabilities organized a large gathering on the subject of hiring people with disabilities, so we as an institution also have a need and a desire to use that presidency, to call something and do some activities together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141602	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Goodbye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141603	A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2018, the applicant is the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that a unanimous 122 votes in favour is the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141604	We will now continue with the next point, which is - Report on the exercise of the right to free aid and spending in 2018; The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article. 46. The law on free legal aid. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141605	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected MPs and MPs. Before us, the 2018 Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the expenditure of the Institute of Legal Assistance in the Republic of Croatia was governed by the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which entered into force on 1 January 2014 and replaced the previous Law on Free Legal Assistance applicable from 1 February 2009 to 31 December 2013. The law regulates the purpose, users, types of legal aid, legal aid providers, conditions and procedure for the exercise of legal aid, cross-border legal assistance, financing of legal aid and supervision of the implementation of this law. The Ministry of Justice shall monitor the implementation of the law and shall submit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 1 March each year a report on the exercise of the right to free aid and spent funds for the previous year if the report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the HS by 30 April. The law distinguishes two types of legal aid, which are primary and secondary legal aid. Primary legal assistance relating to legal counselling and legal protection in proceedings against public authorities shall be provided by civil society organisations, legal clinics and public administration offices in the county, i.e. the competent authority of the City of Zagreb. The procedure for the implementation of the primary legal aid shall be initiated by direct address to the primary legal aid provider. Secondary legal aid relates to the exercise of legal protection in civil and administrative court proceedings and to the exemption from the costs of judicial proceedings and the exemption from payment of court fees. Secondary legal assistance is provided by lawyers, and the procedure for reaching secondary legal assistance is initiated by applying to the Office of State Administration in the county, i.e. the competent administrative authority of the City of Zagreb. The report is divided into 7 chapters. The first three chapters of the report provide an overview of the legislative and institutional framework for free legal assistance. The central part of the report consists of chapters 4 and 5, which continue to be a statistical review of the exercise of the right to primary and secondary legal assistance and data on the financing of primary and secondary legal assistance in 2018. During the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018, the primary legal aid was granted in 20 281 cases. In most cases, citizens sought legal assistance in the form of legal advice in 9 644 cases. Total planned funds for the organisation and provision of free legal assistance in 2018 amounted to 4 million and 12 thousand kuna. For comparison with 2017, the total planned funds amounted to 3 million and 1310 kuna, which is more than one million kuna compared to the previous year. In 2018, an amount of 1 271 974 kuna was paid to provide primary legal assistance and EUR 2 032 485 was paid to provide secondary legal assistance in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141606	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative, Željko Raguža, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141607	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Secretary of State, you said that in 2018 it was planned for secondary legal aid of 2 million and 700 thousand kuna. That's two million kunas out of it. The report states that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have submitted 6 700 requests for secondary legal aid and is positively responsible for 4600 requests. Does it seem to you that there is a place to respect the social, economically needed citizens in the Republic of Croatia by meeting the requirements when the resources for secondary legal assistance are already planned?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141608	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141609	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, the Ministry of Justice is constantly working to improve and increase funds to provide free legal assistance. What is a problem in the number of cases that occur and the number of cases that are granted free legal aid was primary, it was secondary that some do not meet unfortunately the conditions to be met in this secondary one. There's a lot of trouble at the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. What is important is that the system develops from the start of providing free legal assistance to the present day. The funding is growing and higher and we will try to make it more in 2019 so that each year the institute is more acceptable, more accessible to a number of citizens who have the right to free legal assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141610	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to be the Club of HDZ Representatives to speak on behalf of the respected representative Zeljko Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141611	My colleagues and fellow MPs, there is no colleague but fellow MPs, State Secretary. In the 2018 Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and spent funds, one review was given, an example of how the Institute of Free Legal Assistance is implemented in the Republic of Croatia. The report therefore provides a transparent and legislative basis for the implementation of free legal aid, but also an institutional basis. As the State Secretary said, the Law on Free Legal Assistance is a legal basis, while the offices of the state administration in 20 counties and the City Administration in Zagreb are an institutional basis together with authorised associations, legal clinics at three Law Schools in Zagreb, Osijek and Split, which is the basis for the realization of primary and secondary legal assistance. It seems important to point out that this institute has developed in the Republic of Croatia and that it is part of a programme to adapt the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to European legislation during the period of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The key purpose of free legal assistance is to enable therefore the social and economic needs of Croatian citizens to have equal legal protection against public authorities in the Republic of Croatia, and this is successfully realised. According to the data provided by the State Secretary, the Ministry of Justice, which is also the holder of the legislative framework and which oversees the implementation of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance in the Republic of Croatia, also takes care of social elements in Croatian society by increasing the items and for primary and secondary legal assistance, and is increased primarily in 2018 compared to 2017 by 46%, while the funds for secondary legal assistance implemented through lawyers have increased by 27%. It says there is a need for this institute, that it is still developing in the Republic of Croatia. I believe it will happen that social circumstances are such that it should be taken care of. The Ministry has not been mentioned within its engagement in this activity. There's a commission with two members. Representatives of the ministry, then the Ministry of Finance, State Administration, Croatian Bars, Authorised Associations and Legal clinics overseeing the implementation of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. It is also, in a certain way, overseeing the work of associations that are holders of free legal aid, particularly primary legal aid in 15 thousand of the 20,000 cases of the implementation of free legal aid. In the Republic of Croatia, 2,000 through legal clinics and 3,000 through the Office of State Administration in Countys. It can be concluded that it is a valuable institute that respects the circumstances of the social moment in the Republic of Croatia that it should have further development based on the insight into the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Soon, some changes may also be made that would allow a greater number of citizens who need free legal assistance so that they can successfully implement it. The HDZ Club will support the Report on the exercise of the right to free legal assistance and spent funds in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141612	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the voice and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries with co-workers, colleagues, free legal aid is one subject I have spoken a lot about in both the Parliament and outside the Assembly that the spear broke when it was passed by law and which has an institute that is desperately needed. But there's a rather sad and unfortunate history, partly because it's so complicated that sometimes it's said that you need free legal help to know how to use free legal aid, and partly because there's no money. And these raises or additions that are well added here in 2018, but when you see about how much that means by the case, it's actually a ridiculous sum that can't cover these needs. In order for that to be more visible, I'm just going to briefly remind you of what is entering the primary category and what is in the category of secondary legal aid. Therefore, the primary legal aid is general legal information, legal advice, assembly of submissions before public authorities, etc. It now lists them, representation in proceedings before public authorities and legal assistance in the non-judicial peaceful settlement of the dispute. A secondary legal aid is legal advice, the assembly of a submission in the process of protecting workers' rights against the employer, the assembly of court proceedings, representation in court proceedings, legal aid in a peaceful settlement of the dispute, the release from payment of the costs of court proceedings and the exemption from payment of court fees. As you will see if you read this report, this exemption from court fees is almost the largest amount of money spent here, or to which the largest amount of money is used. However, it turns out that free legal aid is de facto free of charge only for those who give it. Those who are receiving, what can I get for this sum and who can help with this amount? Therefore, in 2018, 4 million kunas and exactly 4 million kunas and 12 thousand kunas were singled out for free legal aid. Of which, a million 774 kunas and 70 limes went to the primary, and there were 2 thousand 281 cases. When you calculate it by one case, it's 62 kuna. So anyone who's been looking for anyone who won't do it for free, but somehow the state has to refund or local and regional self-government through some channels should be refunded on average has got 62 kuna. There's nothing you can do about it. Not to mention travel costs, anything, it is very often about people who have to come from not the main and largest centres in Croatia. So de facto doesn't work. Of course not every case is the same and you can't exactly look through the average. However, a person’s feeling can be obtained if he compares the amount with which one project is financed and the number of interested parties to say, that is, the number of people assessed after relatively complicated procedures to have the right to do so. As regards secondary legal aid, 2 million 32,000 485 kuna and 63 June were allocated in 2018. A total of 6 thousand 779 applications were submitted and 4 thousand 638 applications were granted. When you look at it for secondary legal aid, and it includes legal services as you saw from what I reminded at the beginning of what is the content of secondary legal aid, so it includes lawyers, in case it's 438 kuna. So for secondary legal aid for the people who were decided to have the right to do so, 438 kunas were allocated. As far as I'm aware of one date not so expensive, so the relatively simple and cheap release of a lawyer to a court of law is 500 kuna. So, with $438, you can't even get a lawyer to represent you in court once. I also accept and understand that all cases are not the same and that the average is one, and some cases require more money, some less, but still from the comparison of users or stakeholders and the total amount of money provided for this can see what is happening and what is possible with this free legal aid at all. As far as the report is concerned, it's not a problem. I mean, what he's just saying is, as much as there was a demand, it's statistically showing everything, which type of demand dominates, which is what the most money is spent on. As I said, most of the time, to be released from court costs, even from direct experience, I know that this is very difficult with a special request from the State's attorney's office, with the government's approval, it just comes to the fact that some poor people can be freed from court costs that climb very often to tens of thousands of kunas. And as we can see here by case of secondary legal aid, everyone has the right to 438 kuna or the average is 438 kuna. So, as far as the reports are concerned, it shows the real situation. But as for the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, it also shows that this institute is not working and we have to decide whether or not we want to have free legal assistance. And not only do we have to comply with European rules, but I think, in accordance with some civic consciousness and responsibility to our own society and our own citizens, we must have it. In this form, however, it does not actually serve a purpose that is intended for it, or enables people who are too poor to come not to justice, but to institutional justice which, of course, we all know is very different and often the opposite of real justice. But at least to institutional justice for it here as only this report shows no money. So I think we should see what form this institute is because I'm certainly against it, and we at the Voice and HSU Club are against that institute being rejected. But we are also against the fact that its existence is being falsified, that it's acting as if we have something de facto we don't, because we're starving that institute or that institute financially can't, it has such a budget that it can't perform its function. And that's what I'm proposing to the Secretary of State that maybe we can update the subject through the Justice Department as well. Because when this is already happening then let's try to do something that makes sense and what can help someone, and not something that's fulfilling mere form and de facto comes down to 62 kunas per person or per case, or 438 kunas per case when it's also about using a lawyer or secondary legal aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141614	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Orsat Milenic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141615	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, assistant, there's the other secretary of state and your colleague there's a lot of you, and I welcome you all, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we'll introduce the report. The report's fine. And what I'd like to say is I'm extremely glad that we finally started getting reports near the end of the year for which they are given, because one of the bad things that happens to us in the Parliament is when we discuss two, three years after the report it's completely pointless. So, about the very report that's technically, I don't have much to say except as I said we'd back it up. However, I think we should talk about the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. My colleague Pusic pointed out actually certain things that are very important to highlight, and I think we all need to ask ourselves together if we are really a country of prosperity in which we, with 4 million kuna, can cover everything, all people in the Republic of Croatia who need free legal assistance, so I don't think they can afford it alone, which is in the problem, which is looking for justice, I don't think. I think our picture is a very different social picture. And then when we look at and within that what's the problem but it's not now, it's actually a problem since we have the Institute of Free Legal Assistance is that the little funds that separate and always hard to find we don't actually spend and it's absurd to you. So we're talking about one very small number, 4 million kuna, but it's actually realized 3 and something. Right? It's not even that realized. So imagine where we are in an absurd situation. We say that with 4 million kuna we will help all citizens who can't afford to pay for their own representation, legal advice, etc., and then we are in a position not to spend it all the way and it doesn't last now. It's actually been a situation since we've had this institute. And in the long run and I'll agree again with my colleague it's really a situation where we should say we want to go further in that direction or something needs to radically change. On the one hand, from the very beginning, we have been troubled by the complexity of the procedure, and I am aware of that because I was sitting alone in that place where I proposed the law. And this law that I've proposed and it's very complicated, too complicated, and it doesn't actually give the result that we expected it to give. That's right. And I think we need you at the Ministry to think primarily about some radical change. The other thing is not only this law, but also it may best reflect so when it was done then you actually have one task to enable you to provide free legal assistance. But actually, what guides you is thinking about all possible abuses that you want to prevent. So it's not just here. This is just one little example. So I'm talking about this law, but that's it. And then you actually have one concept that's well-placed so that you can avoid all possible abuses to get into this situation where we are. We give 4 million kunas, we spend 3. 60 kunas, as my colleague said for the primary case, 400 seconds. It just doesn't make sense. It's not life. I say, I can talk about it because I suggested it here and defended it six years ago and it's time for me to actually take a step back and think about what results. And the results can't be good, and how many times all of us turn to citizens for help. You tell them you have the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. Where's the problem first? People don't know about that. So, one really, we are now a country where everything and everything and a referendum and an anti-referendum are being propagated, etc. I think an investment in promoting free legal aid would be something that's very good. But nothing, that there are no citizens who don't know about that possibility is the first step. The more people ask, the more they'll use, the more they'll come to that. It was when it started with that there were promotions etc. But I'm still convinced that we've all been confronted with the question that people just don't know about it. And that's how we live a good part in Zagreb or in larger centres. Then we can think of what it's like in smaller environments. So the first is information. The second is finding a mechanism, cutting procedures, but also when it means creating this greater flow of citizens if we succeed through the promotion or through the promotion of free legal assistance, then we can at least hope in the first step to spending all the funds that are provided and then to raise funds. After that, of course, it is necessary to consider the procedures that are definitely too complicated and says they are not designed because they are with the intensity to provide free legal assistance, but in fact in a largely limited idea to prevent any abuse. And then when you go after it, then you're going to limit this, and you're going to prescribe this form, so you're going to have to fill out this and that, and then we really get into a situation where the results are what they are. So I don't want to be any longer. It doesn't make any sense here because it's not our topic of law, it's just a report. The report is very correct. It's a timely report. However, I am convinced that Croatia would be a much better country if we were to allocate not only more resources for free legal aid, but also allow more citizens to use it. All our citizens who can't afford it are in the problem of property, like this, and now imagine when someone who is poor is struggling who can't afford legal representation or legal advice, but depends on free legal assistance with someone on the other hand who can afford any representation, what chance of appearance, for success. As a society, we as a state must have his chances they may never be the same as it is, but we must at least bring them to a level that does not decide and that in this country it does not matter how much money anyone has that they will get so much justice, but that they decide the court according to how the case is brought before them and that should be the task of free legal assistance. So I support the report. I hope there's a chance that you'll open up the debate and think about changing the law because I think the time has come. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141616	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the Force in the name of which the respected representative Goran Aleksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141617	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Justice, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm terribly frustrated with the fact that banks owe citizens 15 billion kunas that they robbed from them by unfair contractual provisions, that there are currently about 5,000 lawsuits in the courts, and that's what I'm assuming is 5 grand. I don't know exactly how many of them there are, out of a possible 125 grand just for CHF loans and another 200 grand for the euro and kuna loans when it comes to interest rates. The reasons are different. One reason is lack of information. Another reason is the spins of banks that scare people into losing court disputes. The third reason is the inaction of the Croatian National Bank and the authorities on this issue. And the fifth reason is inert in general people who, when they do some legal work, don't think about it anymore and don't care that the robber keeps the money he robbed. Now, this free legal aid, I wonder, is it possible to systematically organise this aid in a way that invites people to sue because they have the right to sue on the basis of a collective dispute, on the basis of a collective verdict they have the right to sue? The state could jump in there and organise a massive bank sue action. It occurred to me that it might be possible, for example. Since 8 banks have been convicted, invite debtors to jointly sue and help them. If 10,000 people have sued, in fact, if 10,000 people have agreed to a loan in the same bank under the same conditions, if it's 10,000 people with CHF credit and a variable interest rate that changes the bank's decision theoretically all 10 thousand can jointly sue that bank. It's similar to a collective lawsuit, but it's very different. It's important that in a collective lawsuit, the prosecutor is abstract and that abstraction is called we have a collective dispute and we got this collective dispute and now, on the basis of this collective dispute, everyone has to sue privately and it becomes concrete. But in a joint lawsuit, so-called. the rival lawsuit people perform by name and last name, but together. When people ask me if they're suing together because it's going to cost them less, I tell them that maybe it's not a good idea, because in that case they depend on these other rivals and it could delay their process. However, if the state came in and the state organised such a mass mourning then it was a completely different story. I believe that people would be very happy to approach such a way of complaining. Why should the state do that? Why should she handle it through local self-government through free legal aid? The answer is very simple because there are 10 to 15 billion kunas on the road that the banks robbed from Croatian citizens, because if the 10 to 15 billion kuna is returned to Croatian citizens then Croatian citizens who are damaged will spend that money. This will raise GDP, which will make it richer and the state budget, and this will eventually increase the need for employment. And finally, the last answer is to get the robbers to pay back the money they robbed. There's another way I won't talk about it right now because now the topic is free legal aid. Here, it occurred to me that this idea, that your real state could organise one such general I would say a way to sue and invite all people who have agreed loans with unfair contractual provisions in eight convicted banks, help them sue through joint lawsuits. Anyone in the same bank can, along with another rival who's in the same bank, sue the bank, and if the state invites them to do it together, it'll all go faster. There are strong judgments, it's known how it works, it's known what the methodology for calculating overpaid amounts is, it's all clear as day, and therefore the state could really do a great thing for debtors, and I'm just going to point out that some countries help consumers who are damaged in a similar way, for example. In Austria, we had a case where the banks agreed on an interest rate and when it didn't suit them that the interest rate fell to 0, they stopped reducing the interest rate even though the interest rate had to fall by contract. And people started their lawsuits and the Supreme Court of Austria decided that such a way of applying interest rates was not in line with the law, not according to the contract and on the basis of even the judgment of the Court of Justice which found that this was not to be the case, the Supreme Court decided that banks in such a case had to return overpaid money, and the consumer protection agency in Austria prepared a proposal for each debtor who wanted to sue and the debtor just downloaded the template from the website and came very quickly to their own money. We have three, four, five, eight years. A man sues, so he waits for the first hearing half a year, so he waits for a first-degree verdict a year, in the meantime, pays, pays, sometimes two years, and then the bank complains, and then it goes to the County Court, and it waits another year or two to end up in the County Court, so he gets the money, so the bank invests in an audit, and he's still a little concerned about whether the audit might end up in favour of the bank, but to our joy all audits end in favour of debtors, consumers, because the collective verdict found out what was determined and the banks have no chance at the Supreme Court. However, their lawyers, banking lawyers, are actually stalling the process because it's in their favor. Well, here I am from this pay phone, even telling the banks not to let their lawyers delay their processes because it costs them more. Bank lawyers are in the interest of getting more money from the bank, even if they know they're going to lose in advance. Well, I wouldn't last any longer, so my idea is that the state is doing something to solve the problem of robbing Croatian citizens, Croatian consumers, Croatian people eventually. Croatian people, a large part of the Croatian people has been robbed by Croatian banks in foreign ownership using unfair contractual provisions, and I think it should be the interest of the Republic that comes from the people, because the government belongs to the people, I don't know exactly which article the Constitution very poorly defines that the government comes from the people, that the Croatian people choose that power, that the Croatian people belong to that authority and that all Croatian people make up all Croatian citizens regardless of nationality. So, when we talk about the Croatian people, I don't particularly mention some nationality, but all citizens because all Croatian citizens make up the Croatian people and that Croatian people here chose us to represent him, to represent him in this situation where the Croatian people were systematically robbed, the government should do something about it. One way would be to do so through free payment aid, of course a much more effective way would be to adopt some legal system solution, but certainly it is possible to get your money through an effective free legal aid organisation for all those already in the collective court dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141618	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate, the first should be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, who is gone, who is losing his right to debate. Then he should have been a respected representative of Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to debate. That concludes this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141619	Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and spending in 2018, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 114 for, 3 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141620	The next item is: - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, First Reading, P.Z. No. 533 Proposer is the Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGE Club based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I don't see any of the proposings here. I don't know, we can... We haven't changed anything, nothing's changed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And look, I can give you a break, it's not very common. ... No, there were no changes in the schedule, but people who usually say that the government's proponent is gone because there are no ministers, although the secretary of state here are now not worthy to come even though they are proposing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I will now take a break by 3:00, hoping that those who talk a lot about how to work here will be to show up here. MEETING IN 14.06 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.02 HOURS]] And now at the second gallery we will also welcome students and students of Fran Bošnjaković Engineering School from Zagreb. [[Applause.]] And as I have read before we will begin, i.e. continue with: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation, first reading, P.Z. No. 533; Proposer: The Advocacy of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club is the Proposer of the Living Wall and the Power Force, based on Article 85. [[Applause.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. The government has delivered its opinion and, apparently, the proposing representative will give an additional explanation. I see a colleague of Branimir Bunjec who's already behind the pay phone, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141622	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with an associate, honored guests. We are today starting a debate on the Living Wall's proposal on how to record and rehabilitate the perpetrators of crimes, which is, in its essence, part of a broader, therefore, wider platform of child protection against the evil of the child called pedophilia. So this is actually about more laws that we've proposed and this is just one of them. So before we even begin this debate and it is important to stress that we found the foothold to launch this initiative where it is best to find it in the Constitution itself, in point 65. The Constitution of the first indent which clearly states: “It is the duty of all to protect children and powerless persons. ” So it's a duty for everyone. So if it is the duty of all, then it is our duty, I would dare say first of all to us who represent the legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia. The state of pedophilia is very difficult in Croatia and it is enough to read the Ombudsman's report for children from last year and a report that will be on the agenda tomorrow, I believe that many things from today's debate there will be heard again and I will only briefly quote what the lawyer herself says. Croatia has not built a quality and efficient system to protect children from sexual abuse and exploitation. A system of support for victims of sexual violence is missing in order to provide timely assistance and appropriate treatment to help them cope with traumatic experiences. The justice system is not tailored to victims' children and potentially endangers the child from re-traumaticisation. The case-law is unequal to both the treatment of the victim in the process and the punishment of the perpetrator of sexual violence against the child, insufficient education and a superior vision of experts. No effective surveillance of the perpetrators has been established under a sustained sentence. I repeat, there has been no effective surveillance of the perpetrator under a sustained sentence. Prevention is not systematically organised and preventive programmes are not available to their children under equal conditions. So this is the attorney general's opinion for children, so the person who deals with this issue 365 days a year gets paid for it. In view of these comments, comments and suggestions, we in the Living Wall mean this amendment of the law, we are initiating the procedure for the register of perpetrators of pedophiles to be made public or publicly available. It is a major and fundamental amendment to this bill. So what we predicted was that the pedophile register that already exists would be publicly available. Because in this way that he is now existential and that is that no one can access him, or can access very difficult, he simply does not fulfill his function. So in Croatia, the situation is such that we have registered about 1400 paedophiles of which about 95% of men, men and only one smaller number of women, a few dozen of them. And it is important to note that one good part of those people who are registered are foreigners. So these are foreign citizens who are often not only free to walk without any supervision but most interesting of all have the right to work with children. So they have the right to work with children. One example, for example. If someone wants to get a job at a sports club where they work with children, with minors, etc., he only has to show, he has to show his degree. He doesn’t even have to show a famous certificate of impunity, which is otherwise shown for all jobs, even for the Parliament, let alone to say that it is in the register of paedophiles. Moreover, if, for example, a sports club asks a paedophile for an insight into the register he must obtain from that person consent, then this person must be given the consent to be checked in the register. And of course, such a person will never give consent and thus, the danger that threatens children will not be known. So the register that exists in most countries is, in some countries, less or more so closed and in some countries it is open and we advocate to follow the example of the countries that made this register publicly available and these are primarily the United States, Poland, the Czech Republic, Russia and some other countries. Let's say in Republika Srpska, which we consider to be lagging behind us because it does not enjoy these wonderful benefits of the EU, integration, etc., there is a mandatory check in the register of paedophiles of each employee. Not only is it mandatory to check, but every person on that register must report once a year to the police and report any travel, 10 years after a sustained sentence with a precise route of movement. So if someone from Banja Luka, I don't know, wants to travel to Prijedor, he has to tell exactly where he's going to be at which moment, where he's going to be, what he's going to do there, and what time. Even one Serbia, which is also not a member of the EU, has one special law that is at least 5x more radical than Croatia and is most important. Not only are these registers in those countries that I mentioned were publicly available but even the chemical castration of pedophile is carried out in some countries. For example, in Poland, you have even a publicly available rap register. So not only the paedophile, but also the rapist. I took part in the committee debate and listened to what the government said, the government says we have no right to publish anyone's names and last names in a negative context. And the same government has, for example, a public tax register. And when a man is owed 7 thousand kunas on the tax administration then he is publicly revealed and publicly disgraced and publicly invited to all people to avoid him and when a man commits a terrible, 100x more terrible crime of pedophilia then he needs to be protected, his personal data and taken care of him, her orphan, so that someone doesn't accidentally look at him wrongly. And the situation is scary, scary. Let's just get the news headlines in 2019, I printed them out in the sun, first thing the google search engine threw me out. Here, February 12, 2019. We've been sexually harassing a girl on the island of our county for a 60-year-old for a year. Here, next, a pedophile from Rijeka for four years molested a girl, raped her when she came to school holidays and filmed everything. Condemned paedophile from the area of Ludbreg, January 21, 2019, he drove girls to religious school and then inappropriately touched them. On the 21st of November 2018, a convicted pedophile from Rijeka who fornicated over the child of his neighbors has no regrets at all. 16.4.2019, so 3 weeks ago, a man in Kaštel and the father of three children, sexually abused girls, the youngest victim was 6 years old. He's 55 years old alone, so he molested eight girls and ended up being punished for 1 year and 10 months in prison. Next, we have a case here, a pedophile from the Croatian mission in Munchen, raped a girl but won't go to jail because she's not able to testify in court because of her psychic apartment. And so on and so forth. So on a daily basis, we have cases that are shocking, that are destroying the meaning of human beings at its most sensitive age, human beings who are then traumatized as long as they are alive, who may even become abusers today because of, say, the PTSD that suffers, and on the other hand, we have a system that protects perpetrators and doesn't really punish them at all. For more than 50% of cases of pedophilia crime, probation is imposed. And what's a little judgmental, so it's 10 months, a year, charity work, etc., so these people are basically getting a message that what they've been doing is actually worth it to them in some way, that they can still do this. Not only do they get such a message, but the system is designed so that most of these pedophile come back to the crime scene, live again on the same street, live in the same city again, live in the same apartment with their victim. Can you understand that if we have 1,400 registered pedophiles, how many more of them are unregistered, because the thing is that victims very rarely report it at all. So we can assume that this figure is far greater than we know exactly. Are you aware that these paedophiles are often your neighbors, your neighbors, your children, your grandchildren, that you're basically the people themselves and we're actually today, tomorrow's potential target. It is also very important to highlight the situation in society in general, meaning the role of media that often not only condemns these crimes insufficiently but also encourages them in some way, because you will often not know when you open some portals, front page newspapers, etc., read about these pedophil tendencies as something acceptable, as something that is bizarre but can still be accepted. Normally, I remind myself that underneath all these news articles on all these portals, it is often allowed to comment and it becomes in some way a cutting point for such individuals who, in some ways, give their comments legitimacy. Here we have a portal here, so the portal is for young people, it's called Tin 385, so it's supposed to be for a minor and now look at what's the main news on that portal, the 12-year-old girl married 65-year-olds. Oh, my God, here. So some media because of a few clicks due to some kind of virality show this kind of news on the portal that's meant for children only. Or you have, say, on NEW TV, you have news also highlighted at the beginning of the portal, your grandmother fell in love with her 26-year-old grandson, who is expecting a child born to them by a surrogate. And that's the big news. Is it normal that it's news anywhere, especially on national television? What's another particular problem that maybe even in some way this is holding the whole story back, and that's the problem that there's a lot of abusers among the clergy, which is just too scary, and these priests are the pedophiles who are the least punished of all. Which is just amazing, amazing. So that a person who presents himself as a moral authority in society, moreover, as a representative of God, commits such terrible crimes, and then, finally, I don't know by any means what international contract, law, rule, etc., is not being punished at all. These are the elements that destroy society as a whole, where people lose confidence in absolutely everything, not only in the Croatian Parliament, not only in the government, I don't know the DORH and the Ministry of Justice, but they lose confidence even in the religion of the church. They have no more sanctuary anywhere. Here, the head of the parish court in Sibenik abused three boys, committed nine crimes, arrested but was released shortly afterwards, quoting media records. The Serbian friar abused the boys, released, the case went out of date, priest Nedjeljko Jovanovic abused the children for 20 years, he was not a day in prison, the punishment was retired, is that punishment? Priest Drago Ljubicic received 2 years in prison for the abuse of 5 boys, Mladen Kozina priest received a year to collect pornographic pictures of babies, babies, a year. Think about it. And it's good, and thank God for showing up at least now, Pope Francis, who started a campaign against it and who clearly and openly says, quote, that pedophilia is one of the most disgusting and worst possible crimes. Who insists, one that all priests should be permanently removed from the ministry, the other that all priests must meet with the victims of pedophile, or pedophile. The mandatory meeting must be removed, which means in February of this year two months ago in the Vatican, a meeting of the presidents of all bishops' conferences was called with a goal, the only goal of child protection. And that meeting concluded something very important that I want to tell you right now, which is the 1st, that silence is no longer acceptable, that silence is a primitive mechanism that can no longer exist, that a code of silence should be broken because silence is a part of crime, participation in crime. I repeat once again, means one who accepts to remain silent, according to Pope Francis, not according to Branimir Bunjc or Ivan Pernar, because a participant in the crime. And now it's important that each of us consider which side they choose, light or dark, crime or justice, children or paedophiles. You can't do each other, you can't say now I'm going to protect the rights of children and protect the rights of paedophiles and be a wolf full and sheep in number. It can't, you have to decide whose side you're on, choose. We in the Living Wall have chosen and now we will hear a representative of the Government that he has chosen. And it is good for the Croatian public to hear their arguments and we know in advance that they will object because even the benign, young law proposed by the parliamentary majority who sat here slowed down, watered down, weighed down and opposed... And then you can only think about how they're going to have a relationship with something the opposition suggests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What the Government will try, of course, also highlighted as some argument, is that this law is contrary to some EU rules, the EU spirit, I don't know what kind of spirit and lamps we have, I don't know, because I don't know what it is all the time even though I don't know what it is, but I will immediately and that argument come out of their hands because here is the directive of the European Parliament, that wonderful Parliament to which individual parties are worshiped, the directive means since 13 December 2011 to combat sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. And here we have a clear article 43 that says, "To access the records of paedophiles, restrictions should apply in accordance with national constitutional principles." Nowhere does it say that any other rules other than our own rules must be followed. And if we follow these constitutional principles that I mentioned immediately in the introduction, then the constitutional principle is gentlemen dear article 65, it is the duty of all to protect children. What are you going to do? What are you gonna do? You'll come down with your shoulders again. You will again allow news articles like this to be published from day to day and you will pretend that there is no such thing, that it does not exist, that I do not know it on Mars and not in Croatia. Therefore, we consider and demand and encourage all of you to act in accordance with your conscience, in accordance with the EU Directive, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and finally do something concrete to at least mitigate this problem if it cannot be fully removed. And I repeat once again, in order to fully remove it, more legislative proposals, more amendments to the law, and more general reforms in society need to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141623	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141624	The esteemed colleague of Bunjac, just the law that we have passed in the procedure, serves to show everyone the right face, that everyone in this House shows whether they want to cover up pedofiles or want to expose them. It is my desire that the parliamentary majority support our proposal to amend the law and finally register the pedophile so that the public can know who these people are. The current system protects the names of paedophiles and thus protects them primarily. We believe that the whole process, i.e. to say so, should be much more transparent in order, among other things, to send a public message on the non-acceptability of such behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141625	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141626	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. So we have a list that doesn't have a function, it's clear to everyone, so a simple list that's a dead letter on paper. The key question is, would the public availability of that register reduce or increase the number of pedophilia cases? The answer is quite logical, it would probably shrink because those people who commit these crimes would feel intimidated. And five times they'd think about whether they'd get into something like that or not. So if that goal itself is tangible and reasonable, then there is no reason for such a law to be rejected. If the register remains secret, do you think the number of pedophile cases will rise or fall? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141627	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141628	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I agree with you that the most dangerous is silence. And we can't keep our mouths shut, especially when it comes to crime and when it comes to crime against a child and other vulnerable groups. And it's sad that it only reacts when a crime occurs or when a crime is committed either to a child or to another vulnerable group and that it only reacts when the media publicly announces it. And here we see here, and the child's attorney says that there are these problems, that there's unequal court practice and that there's one treatment for the perpetrators of these acts that's not good. And something has to change. The government refuses your bill, but something must happen to protect the children and all vulnerable groups. We have examples of Poland and other countries where this is better solved. I don't know why the government doesn't offer its solution unless it respects your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141629	The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141630	Thank you, well-respected representative Vlaovic. So you're pointing out a very interesting detail and this is that we actually have this kind of serial pedofile, recidivist, here's an article in the paper where one person 53 kids abused, 53. And now you think someone who's committed the same crime 53 times will stop. Do you think this secret register of the Justice Department will somehow prevent him from doing so? So that's what this is most often about means people who simply can't stop in any other way than unfortunately by repression. I'm an opponent of the repression, and we're not in the Living Wall for any kind of violence, but I repeat again, if anyone crosses the border 53 times, then there's no other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141631	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141632	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac and on the board on which I was on board I supported not only this proposal of yours but the fact that there is a debate at all means this important problem which the entire society and we here in the Croatian Parliament need to pay attention to and look for the best solutions how fully possible to eradicate this evil that is happening in our society. And I could agree with a colleague from the HSS if the government had already, and I said that to the Committee itself, if the government did not accept this proposal, it might be against certain constitutional principles, that it might have been necessary to include some other categories, that the government itself should propose some sort of solution in order to deal more strongly with this evil pedophilia. And I think it's in the interest of all of us here Parliamentarians and I believe it's also the interest of the Vice President of the Parliament and the ruling size and also the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141633	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141634	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoy. Well, I just don't want to, I really don't want to believe that the government, with this kind of relationship to this problem, wants to protect someone. So that's just me, here's hoping it's not true that some individuals might be trying to just leave on the other side of the law and have tolerance for them, etc. But I repeat once again, I am deeply concerned that they, therefore, do not allow their own representatives to deal with this issue in a more serious and efficient way. So, I'd like the court practice to get a little even, get a little tight and just keep the kids on the streets and in their daily activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141635	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Prime Minister want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Justice Department Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141636	Honorable MPs and MPs. So I need on behalf of the Government to state our position, you've kind of heard from the promoters that we've been to the council committees where this legislative proposal has been discussed. And we have stated that this legal initiative in this particular matter is unacceptable to the government, and we, through my statement, are going to suggest to the Parliament that it does not accept this legal solution. So, what I would like to say is, in an important way, that is that also the proposing representative, the esteemed representative of Bunjac, in his presentation that lasted more than 20 minutes, almost didn't mention what he was proposing but spoke in a popular media way about how he must be the only one on behalf of the promoter who wants to protect children as victims of violence more strongly through the criminal legal framework. Simply for the sake of the Croatian public and for the sake of you who will decide on this legislative proposal I have the need to say, and I should not be surprised that this government seems to me together with all of you last year, so at the end of the year, I have made quite extensive amendments to the Penal Code with a special emphasis on the head that regulates the protection of children as victims of sexual violence. So that's the relationship of this government, that's the relationship of this Parliament, that's the relationship of all parties who voted for these legal changes and I would say the relationship of a complete Croatian society to the way in which children should be protected as victims of sexual violence. I have to point out, so we've raised all the minimum impediments, but we've all raised all the maximum obstacles, for crimes where children are victims of sexual violence, violence. It's important that you all hear that we are then with your help, and I think that the entire assembly was for such a solution to introduce the non-depreciation of crimes where children are victims of abuse, so sexual abuse, in such a way that we have passed an amendment to the law that for the most difficult forms of crimes where children appear as victims of sexual violence, there is no statute of limitations. Dear gentlemen, we, together with you, have brought about a change in the law in which we have imposed a long-standing prison sentence for severe forms of violence against children when children are victims of sexual violence. Here, it is something I need to present as a representative of the government, for your sake, for the knowledge of all of us, but also for the sake of the Croatian public. As far as this initiative is concerned, so it simply comes down to one single sentence, so that legal text in one single sentence is a bill of law, asking that in the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, it is not the register, but those data that are kept in the criminal record, which is kept by the Ministry of Justice, to be made publicly available. I must tell you, but also to the Croatian public in short what the regime is now. So these data are available to those who deal with crime prevention, they are available directly, to courts, to state attorneys and to police who are in the role of preventing such crime. So, the legal solution that would go on this trail to make it publicly available is simply constitutionally legally unacceptable. As a state, as a society, we have our own order of law which does not suffer, I would say incidents, it is a harmonic legal order at which the Constitution is at the top, so the Constitution in its 3rd article where principles are spoken, not in the 61st article that the representative Bunjac mentioned, so where principles are talked about, talk about something that is a standard of modern democracy, which is the rule of law. The rule of law is one of the features of rule of law. Therefore, respect for the principle of constitutional and legal. We can't help but have serious grudges to single out one group in a completely special regime compared to all other people who are convicted of other crimes and greater punishments. The law, if I were to call him on the legal consequences of conviction and rehabilitation, so he follows, I'd say a completely understandable criminal amount, so the impediment is a social reaction to social well-being. From these impediments, the courts pull out when they individualize a particular criminal matter, they impose sanctions. The amount of sanctions determines the course, how long the rehabilitation procedure will take for a person to be considered in legal traffic unjudged. And it can't be changed by one provision without having a hard time wronging some people. When we have taken over the standards, so both the EU and the Council of Europe, so there are a number of regulations that we have adopted in our legislation, there are no such solutions in the EU, we cannot have them separately either. We came out of one order 30 years ago where there was a stronger emphasis on repression, on persecution. We have today in Article 1. The law on criminal proceedings that regulates punishment procedures, the balance between the public need to prosecute anyone who has committed a crime, but also the public needs to protect human rights and these people through criminal proceedings. And here we are in a situation to separate a group in particular and treat them specifically. Here, therefore, we even mentioned the expressions of chemical castration, gentlemen dearly we have come out of that, from that stage of social development. Here, therefore, I cannot say anything other than that by accepting such a legal solution, we would rudely violate a series of legal standards and principles which we, which this Parliament before you and before all of us have brought, but also the standards of protecting human rights that we have accepted as a member of the EU and members of the Council of Europe. Respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141637	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141638	Thank you very much, dear secretary, personally, not to say at the beginning, that the proposal of fellow Bunjac of the Living Wall accepts the triggers because I think that if we try to protect anything, we're trying to protect the children from sexual abusers. And we see these morbid things that happen and through the medium that they publish and don't publish, and I really believed that you as the secretary who was on the list, and sometimes MOST, but last time you were on the living wall list, and really the Living Wall was saying it, and I personally agree with that attitude, and my club will support it, but I don't understand so which constitution, which laws, superlaws, protect people who sexually abuse children rather than children themselves. And it's not true that other countries don't. Well, a colleague of Bunjac named states that have a public register, an open register. Why does the U.S. have an open public register, so we have to do everything and we fellow MPs after this attitude of the government that stood in the position of paedophiles must side with the children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141639	Thank you. Like this, the answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141640	Well, dear Representative Bulj, so I think we know each other and I understand your approach, so I've been talking here for 10 minutes and I've said what the government's position is about protecting children as victims of sexual violence. So, this attempt to twist it, that's your thing, I think the Croatian public already knows your style of exit, so I said, we changed the law and strongly in the campaign together with this Parliament, along with a series of NGOs in the last amendments of the KZ, strongly protected children from it. So to introduce something that is completely dysfunctional, atypical and that breaks the harmony of the legal system and violates a series of principles just to satisfy the need, I would say a few uninformed people who do not understand how the legal order works, I don't think it should pass, I don't expect this Parliament to accept such a thing. I would say, therefore, the saying of one which the English, nobility commits but also membership in the community of democratic orderly societies, arranges us to have the legal order it has in organised democratic societies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141641	The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's respected MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141642	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is regrettable that this proposal will, in part, be portrayed as something that is not. So literally, in the KZ, which you already mentioned, and we've been working on it for more than a year, the crimes of sexual abuse against our initiative led to a maximum, and not only has it led to a maximum, but it doesn't obsess over the execution of punishment, but it doesn't even prosecute the perpetrators even when he escapes to another country. And the register isn't secret now because every employer and now he has a duty and a duty to check who he hires, another thing he doesn't check and those who were held back at the time, you're wrong. The entire assembly has not been for changes by the KZ against the stricter punishment of sexual abusers, they are now initiating these changes. And my colleague Grumoja, I'm sorry I was against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141643	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141644	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, yes, we have a reformed law and I agree with you, and most of you in the assembly have agreed that the strictest punishment for child abusers is necessary. The problem is that there is an unequal case-law, which is not all equal before the court and that is the state's attorney for children herself said and the problem is that other institutions, of course you are not as your ministry in charge of this, but is an opportunity to show it to you and, in cooperation with other ministries, to indicate that in the employment of persons who are going to work with children, that you have to worry about whether someone is in the register or not, and the State's attorney has pointed out that after serving the sentence there is no real record and there is no real control of these persons who commit crime against children. What are you planning to do to avoid it, to have these people working with children again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141645	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141646	So the honourable representative, therefore, some thesis is wrong that we intend to do so so that after maintaining the sentence there is no record anymore, so the records are right after the maintenance, so we are keeping there persons who are convicted and that record is after the maintenance of the sentence and it remains long until the rehabilitation takes place. For more serious punishment that rehabilitation is very, very, very long. As for your objection that court practice, you're a parliamentary representative and I don't think you're even the first time, you know that the Ministry of Justice, or the Government, or the Parliament doesn't judge, judges. It is our job, together with you, to bring quality laws with Parliament, and we are working through a series of legal solutions. I believe that the courts have also recognised this one general social campaign and that more and more high-quality judges are being tried and that more and more severe penalties for this type of crime are being imposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141647	The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141648	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, so you want to show the whole thing now that Branimir Bunjac has come up with a law that no one in Croatia takes seriously. No, we have long prepared this law in collaboration with the associations and in collaboration with the victims. And we received them here in the Parliament many times, and visited them in the field. This law is not the work of an individual but is the work of a wide range of stakeholders in the partnership with legislation in other countries. This is a very seriously written law that offers quite concrete and effective solutions. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141649	Replication response, Your Honor's Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141650	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Bunjac, of course you will defend your legal proposal, I just have one thing to say to you. He, from some emotional point of view, may have some reasons, so this need, the universal need to protect children in a quality way, I said, she was already through important, strong laws, but the way you suggested it, she's just saying that you and those who worked on it were very low legal knowledge. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141651	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141652	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you've given us this one lecture on standards means that in modern countries Western democracy on the protection of the rule of law, human rights, I think we're a generation that doesn't need to be taught, we're adults and such society and in such a system, and we advocate all of this here strongly, and there are also countries of Western democracy that have decided to take this approach because they've estimated that perhaps some principles need to be sacrificed to protect what's most valuable, and with those most vulnerable, they're children. So in that sense we don't need any, any lectures on human rights, we're aware of it and we advocate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141653	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141654	So, I'm glad you're aware, but you must be aware that I am also aware that this government is aware of the way in which legal, legal tools, proper legal tools, respecting the principles of protecting children as victims of violence, and that so far, in these two years, that I, under the full of two years in the Ministry of Justice through a series of legal solutions, have strengthened that position of the victim in a criminal procedure at all, and especially of children as a special group that we should strongly protect. What you've put in my presentation and my way of elaborated the government's position, seen as my doctoring, I can say that I'm sorry, and that's the thing of your observation, not my intention to give it to anyone, and especially to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141655	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to open this debate, and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists is going to speak, and I'm sorry, has come forward on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141656	Thank you very much, here's what a very low-level person is going to say, according to the secretary of state, this very professional person in changing parties. First at the beginning of the year in MOST, in the autumn in Change Croatia, by the end of the year it is already in HDZ, then when the Living Wall is in power it will want to be in the Living Wall of this, etc., meaning it simply went to some personal level, and instead of cleaning up its own yard. It seems that the secretary of state is on the verge, not only of the associations I mentioned but of the institutions of this state. I repeat once again that we have a report from the attorney general for the children. Come to the hearing tomorrow, and explain to her she has about 6 to 7 pages on this issue in her report, she says there is no effective monitoring of the perpetrators under the sustained sentence. So clearly says prevention is not organised, the justice system is not tailored to the victims' children. And you're here all the time saying that we're the most advanced state, how we got to the ceiling, some of those extreme limits possible.../incomprehensible/... how come so many cases we read on a daily basis, when children are so well protected. Are you Mary's law, Mary's law has Serbia, this Serbia that you often describe as a country that is backward, you know what pedophiles punishments are like, 40 years in prison. You know how that law came into being? It came about that one rapist not only molested an eight-year-old girl but killed her. You know her name? Mary is also named after this whole law. And the whole parliament is and all the public, they all sided with that law and you today have what it's called in Serbia, what it sounds like, is that you have effective protection. What do we have? For eight crimes of pedophilia, one year in prison. It's this efficient system of what you just mentioned. So just this one is a story, and the other is a practice, one is whether someone is protected or unprotected. It seems, therefore, that the practice in Croatia does not confirm this theory that you have just presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141657	Now we're going to a debate. The first Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists, on behalf of which a respected representative, Miro Bulj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141658	Thank you, well-respected chairman, distinguished secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the proposal made by the Council Club, the Assembly Representatives of the Living Wall, the MOST Club will support, of course, without any restrictions, because we believe that what we have most to protect are children. And that is why we are disappointed by the government's position to defend it in this case to be a public register of all those who can sexually abuse our children, and we see what is happening in Croatia, of course towards other countries, and in other institutions, they are mentioned in the name of the promoters and these people. Which is why I find it surprising, which is why this resistance to be a public register, if they have other states mentioned, the United States, Russia, I don't know all of which countries are mentioned to have a public register. So we won't have a precedent, so we wouldn't be precedentd, and I don't see any reason why we wouldn't have within the meaning of having countries here and in the EU, but also outside the EU that we're calling on, which is why this wouldn't be a public register to see who the pedophiles are to know, of course, and I think that's the minimum of what we have to do to abused children. And once again, the distinguished secretary said that the arguments you're saying that how I act as a parliamentary representative, I act the way the people chose me, and that's my right, and while I'm in the assembly, I'm going to act like one. So I will express my position as in this case what I am saying to support this proposal, which is now on the agenda, and I see nothing wrong with it, as well as with my colleagues, I don't know where you're coming from, that, as my colleague Grumoja told us, you're giving us a statement and that you're building us that we're wrong. I don't know where you're getting that from, which system you're calling for. What's above child protection, what's above children? What could be beyond rape, the experience of many children, the underage children we see here, the type of cover. And that's what we know, so somewhere in the register as a colleague of Bunjac says, about 1400 registered. Why don't we all know in public who these people are? Not that these people are repeating. I'm not about to break, but I'm not about to repeat cases, as they repeat, that part repeats, sexual abuse of young people, which, of course, children, we're talking about children here. This is where children of a few years, two, three years old are mentioned. We are aware that there is also poor supervision in the Republic of Croatia, we are witnessing statements by the Ombudsman for children, so we have poor supervision, which means that we have to do as a legislative body, not least as representatives, if the government refuses this proposal. I don't see a reasonable reason why the government refuses this proposal, but I think that we would be the least of us parliamentary deputies, to publicly publish a register of those who sexually abuse, a piece, it's paedophiles. I think that we Parliamentarians, we have to have this obligation when we see what's going on, and the fellow has read only part of the cover you're doing, and I don't see any reason about what's going on over the kids. Here's me for the end, I was brief, I said, that I expect from, here's the Club of Assembly Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, to support this proposal of the Living Wall Club, and I expect here, that other fellow MPs will also stand by the protection of the child, and no sexual abusers, paedophiles, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141659	Thank you. The next club, the HDZ Club, a colleague of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141660	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today, your colleagues and colleagues are all full of children's mouths. Then why were you against or abstention, when the HDZ proposal was to change the Penal Code for the first time in Croatian history, to punish sex offenders most severely, i.e. to the maximum penalty, how much criminal law suffers. Then why were you restrained or against? Then is politics above your children? I'd say so. We've been waiting an hour for the Proposer of the Living Wall, because they didn't even show up. And then there comes a tragic performance, but the saddest thing now is that a lot of what's been said here by the Live Wall party right now isn't true at all. The only thing that's true is that pedophilia is a disease and that pedophiles are people who need treatment. This proposal that comes from the Live Wall party is totally unacceptable, and right now I'm going to explain why. He's unacceptable with several aspects. First, it is unacceptable from a point of view, which the gentlemen spoke of more competent than I did, and it is unacceptable from a point of view which I can speak of personally and as a parliamentary representative, when I initiated amendments to the law on this subject, with the aim of improving the protection of children from sexual abuse and exploitation and increasing the punishment of sex abusers, which we were after hard work and a year of consent and working groups and when it finally arrived in the parliamentary debate and when the vote finally took place, were all MPs in favour of severely punishing sex abusers in Croatia? A fellow secretary of state made a mistake when he said they were, they weren't. 28 MPs were restrained. Later, many people asked a question, so who can be abstention or who can be against it, that sex abusers in Croatia are severely punished? Well, you see, I could be some. Some who today suggest something that has nothing to do with sexual abusers in terms of this measure that I am talking about on December 14, 2018, so, when there was a vote, take a good look at which advocates were abstentions and who were in favour. I, whenever the proposal is about children, politics here has nothing to do with it, and I think I'm voting on my conscience, and that's already proven several times. Some people don't have politics in front of children, no matter what they say here today. This is not a serious proposal from the Live Wall party at all. In my personal opinion, this is one abuse of the subject of children and I find it inadmissible and that should be made clear. And I can say this, when I saw this bill, when I took it into my hands, I took that bill, which I initiated along with my colleagues in criminal law, I compared those two proposals and I said that even to that extent, that something had been copied, which changed in the meantime. So, in the meantime, we're working with criminal rights, and that's what a colleague who sits here and how many times we've been to the Justice Department. So part of it was incorporated into other documents, and you gentlemen from the Living Wall don't even know it. So you're proposing something that absolutely has nothing to do with anything and you're reading newspaper articles here, like we don't know how to read newspaper articles or that we don't know how to use the Internet. It is pure manipulation, it is sad, it is sad, and those who follow the topic of sexual abuse of children would then know what happened on the subject in Croatian legislation. Maybe this sounds dramatic or rude to someone right now, but here you should say clearly and loudly, some topics really aren't political, the subject of sexual abuse of children is one of those topics because you know, really and honestly I'm going to say no matter what I'm in politics and being a parliamentary representative, I'm sick of these plantings and these gigglings, it's really the bottom of the bottom. After all, everything I've just said is true and that for the first time in all of this assembly, this painful subject of sexual abuse and child exploitation was supposed to be someone's initiative. The initiative was for my little bits or the HDZ club, or these people sitting here who recognized and supported it and who know how difficult it is to change the KZ and how when one head changes, it affects other heads and what is taken into account and what is done and what needs to be done. You know, all political actors should agree that sexual abuse and exploitation of children is not a subject that should depend on a party or a world-wide background, and unfortunately depends on and unfortunately depends on that now is an election time because raising the level of child protection is what was our priority when we started this. And when we voted in December mostly, unambiguously, our colleagues and colleagues, voted in favour of severely punishing the perpetrators of sexual abuse of children, we knew well what was ahead of us and what was yet to come. The secretary of state mentioned only part of what we had changed then but we have indeed led to a maximum of how much the Croatian legislation suffers, all literally, all the provisions have been changed, the entire head of the KZ and the non-depreciation of the execution of the penalty and the non-depreciation of the persecution of the perpetrators, so we have practically leveled it with genocide. So a person can't escape to a neighbouring country and then when he returns to be freed from guilt, he can't, so this case can't be done because we've changed that. And the one who really wants greater child protection, better supervision and prevention, that was us then, and I must tell you honestly then, is not the only solution because we need to raise awareness of the fact that also falsely spoken here and will be told again in the next debates, that even now in Croatian legislation we already have such mechanisms that a person who is a sex abuser cannot be employed in kindergarten, school, playrooms, but if we are still employed, it is not a law mistake, it is a mistake or a failure of a responsible person who has not checked who employs it. Well, the law can't be all-powerful, it's the responsibility of that person who hires. If you were the owner of the playroom, would you have hired without checking it and will be in daily contact and working with children, I personally wouldn't. Then is that the law's fault? For example, last year, the state administration checked more than 77,000 officials and employees in the criminal record, the one we're talking about now, the Justice Department, and no one who's employed there could have been employed without passing that check. Also, in the KZ, we also have a general provision that clearly states that every person must be checked in the register when employed. We have the Sport Act, we have the Voluntary Act, which necessarily requires a person to check in on employment in this register that we're talking about. So what was just said, it's not true, even now the register is not secret, one is secrecy and the other is sustainability and the third is the public, that's where all the concepts got mixed up. So, in our power as it was, we did it and these are the amendments and the additions of the law, but at the same time we have what is not in our power, and that is to point out that certain employers do not really do what they should do under the law, but it is not the problem of this law but of something else and individual employers do not feel responsible for verifying the person they hire and who will regularly come into contact with children. In this sense, it should be pointed out that law enforcement is adequate but not in this way. It is absurd that this bill comes from the Live Wall party and that this problem is approached in the way it is approached. With this bill, you, in my personal opinion, show that you are from a whole ball of problems and this is a very painful and tragic topic, maliciously pulled a thread and now you would have something with it and what's even more tragic and absurd, there's someone who's already pulled it out, not even your original idea, you haven't even bothered to write what you should write. And it's sad that you have this kind of approach to this subject, but it's just talking about the seriousness of you as a person, and I have to honestly say that I'm disappointed, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141661	Thank you, too. We're going on with, uh, breach of the Rules of Procedure, sorry, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141662	Dear Vice President, in violation of Article 238, I think you should have responded to this exposure of a colleague who did not refer to the proposal itself but entered the qualifications of colleagues from the Living Wall, as a person, which is completely inappropriate and I think you should have responded here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141663	Please, the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141664	Article 238 has been injured. At the time when this proposal was put to the vote to toughen the punishment of child molesters, you were against it. So, you don't, if you have morals, you won't be discussing it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141665	Okay, please, please, look. So, slowly, we won't abuse, now I'll give you just a second, we won't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but here you go, slow down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141666	So, I'm not going to be told about morale by someone who sold himself, who sold himself constantly, so who went to HDZ and I didn't support the proposal because he wasn't radical enough and means flyers, chips, Bandic's HDZ menus won't be giving a lecture here at the Croatian Parliament. I serve the Croatian people and will continue to serve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141667	Okay, well, both of you, you don't need to, you've both abused the Rules of Procedure, so according to article 239, so I'm giving each other a warning, don't abuse it anymore. Thank you. We are continuing with the Living Wall Representatives Club and the SNAGA colleague Ivan Pernar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141668	Dear ladies and gentlemen, you're probably wondering, gentlemen of the HDZ, what are our reasons why we want the pedophile register to be public. You have your own explanation and your reasons why you're against being public, but my role is as a representative and also a proponent to explain to you one of our reasons why we think he should be public. The point is that pedophilia is defined as the attractiveness of adults to children, let's say, before puberty. So these people feel sexually attracted to such children. And I'd dare say that pedophilia is actually some kind of sick sexual orientation. 'Cause let's just say most of us when he sees little kids don't feel anything for them or they're just fond of kids, but when they look at those same kids, they look at each other's eyes, I'd dare say it in one sick, unhealthy way. And now what's going on? He who is a pedophile has a simple tendency to those children and is therefore very common in relapse. That's what my colleague Bunjac explained, he set an example for someone who abused 52 children. Or you have the case of that priest of one, if I've remembered from Bibinj who abused children differently for 20 years, means a long series, one broad period of time. And we're trying to explain to you all the time that these people are prone to it, that means you can catch a pedophile and condemn but he still feels attractive to the children. And if he finds himself in a situation that actually harms those children, there's an objective possibility that he'll do it. And for that reason, we wanted the parent to know who the paedophiles were in their neighborhood so we could tell the kids, look, that guy's your paedophile or that woman, take care of them and avoid them, etc. However, since the register of paedophiles is secretive in Croatia, since neither parents nor children know who the paedophiles are and that only rare persons have insight into the register, I can now say here that children are exposed to unnecessary risks. So we're not asking for a paedophile to be in prison for life, we're just asking that the environment, that the public knows who the pedophile is so that the public can protect itself, means their children, etc. However, as I said, HDZ finds it unnecessary and calls us out to why we did not support their proposal for a law that applied to pedophilia, the reason is very simple, because we were not satisfied that the key thing that is preventive is you do not accept. You deal exclusively in your law sanctioning. And the role of the Living Wall is not only to deal with the consequences but also to deal with the cause and the reason is that you have a person who abuses a child, that you do not know that this person is a pedophile and that there is a possibility that your child may be in contact with that person. As I explained earlier, it is realistic that pedophile will repeat what it does. Why? Because it's in him, I'm just saying, he feels sexual attraction to children and that's unfortunately our reality. Why the HDZ gentlemen are against it is not clear to me. I can only assume that among the members of their party there may be such people and that simply by hiding that register of pedophile you are actually the HDZ gentlemen protecting your own membership. I have recently made public that a indictment has been brought against the head of the Lasinj municipality for the rape of the D.O.R.H. And here we have recently learned that this indictment has been confirmed by the D.O.R.H. But I have never once seen a HDZ gentleman talk about it or look back on it. This would have gone well, under the table, and that attorney's office has not even made a public statement about that Commissioner Lasinja and if I hadn't publicly objected to that before the extraordinary local elections for Lika-Senj County, the question of whether the public would know about it today. Unfortunately, it seems to me that in this Visko home there is one obstacle, one vow of silence in which HDZ's men hide crime, cover their members. They're always defended by a guy who's innocent until proven otherwise. So then even someone admits from HDZ a felony and you say anyway, I'll never forget it like it was, like, you said that everyone is innocent until proven guilty and says MP Maras says so the man admitted that he did it and then someone throws it out of your bench talks, pulled a confession, pulled a confession. So look, when we have a situation on one side of the children, on the other side of the paedophile, you'd be represented, if you don't already protect adults from crime, or rather, if many people are victims of HDZ crime, among other things, until recently the president of your party who is currently in prison, my warm recommendation is to at least support this preventive proposal, in order to at least protect children from paedophiles. As I said, you reject it and it's all clear, that's why all the masks are off, and that's how the HDZ's face is publicly shown, a person who doesn't want to, that the average person knows whether the paedophile lives in his neighborhood and who this pedophile is, and in fact, the public, or the community, has no ability and no instrument to protect himself from these people. I explain that the emphasis that you put on punishment, which is good, means I think that there should have been a stricter punishment for pedophile, but I thought, not only me but my colleagues, that I should make that preventive measure, so that the public could know in time who these people are and protect themselves. Often you HDZ gentlemen speak to us from the Living Wall, and where are your suggestions? You're just criticizing, you're just, to put it that way, you're criticizing, and don't make anything, specifically no suggestions. And we've given you countless suggestions in this law, we've made you a proposal, that the revision, let's say, could enter the CNB. I'm personally up to the proposal on behalf of our club, to lift the fiscalization at the markets and fairs, at the stands, in the open, in the space. Those were some of the suggestions. I've made a proposal to make VAT guests, not 25%, but to stay at 13%. We've made a lot of suggestions and, among other things, I'm standing here today defending our bill. But you're turning him down again. But it doesn't hurt me that you reject our bill, even though they're good, what hurts me, is that you're lying to me, of course not just me, but your colleagues, that we're not making any concrete suggestions. There is a concrete proposal before you today, which cannot be more concrete, which deals with a very simple subject, whether the register of paedophiles should be public or not. The position of the Living Wall is clear, that it should be public, the view of the HDZ is that it should not be public. And I from this pay phone, I call on all the parents, all the citizens, who are concerned about the safety of their children, that when they go to elections, not only 26.5. for the European Parliament, but also for any other, or any other election, to support us from the Living Wall, to stand our side, is otherwise going to be a pedophile, I would call them a protected category, or protected species in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141669	Thank you, too. That's what we're done with the debates on behalf of the MPs' club. The next is an individual debate, please welcome colleague Pernar, and then we have finals on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141670	Thank you very much, Vice President. I deliberately didn't want to cause any damage to the Rules of Procedure, although it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you know it here, because the previous speaker was talking about something that wasn't the subject of this debate. But that doesn't surprise me at all, because you equally approach populism every topic, from the Croatian state, from institutions, to the deceased defenders, and unfortunately, to the sexual abuse of children. And it's unfortunate that you as a party live wall, anything that can benefit you, for personal only promotion, will use for personal only promotion and every topic is an example for you. And every topic is as full of lies as this one was before. But well, it's a sensational speech, no filter, for collecting points, because in a campaign and that way, speaking about this topic of sexual abuse of children, you're actually earning all the victims of child sexual abuse and attacking a party that has done something and changed, you're actually hiding your own incompetence, for any more serious approach. And use the Parliament's payphone for personal performances, as you used before because manipulation is the most powerful weapon and we know it well. I sincerely express my regret that this topic of child sexual abuse is used so cheaply and sensationally. And now you've falsely intimidated people, you've hit people's emotions, yet false. The same thing you've been doing on the subject of migrants and other topics, which is very sad. And if you don't care about the victims of child sexual abuse, then at least you should care about the dignity of those victims and obviously you don't care about it either. Those who really care about child sexual abuse wouldn't laugh at a pay phone like you did before, and talk about VAT, would talk about this subject, in a way that the subject requires rather than in a way, that you humiliate all victims. I think we said everything, a little while ago, the secretary of state, just before me on behalf of the club, we think that this case is groundless and that everything that could have been done on this subject would have been done to the maximum of amendments to the Penal Code, Chapter 16 and other legal and sublegal acts, and we have yet to have another job ahead, which I hope to successfully complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141671	Thank you, too, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141672	So, the violation of Article 238 is by who knows what time today means she wasn't at all discussing the subject but was dealing with colleagues here in the assembly, and the last person who can hold a moral forefather here in HS because she has repeatedly issued political options with which she went to elections, is the last person who can talk about it, she used this debate for some of her personal accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141673	Thank you, don't, please, don't abuse your colleague's injuries anymore, I won't do it now, but don't do it anymore. On behalf of the club, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141674	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to repeat once again that the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists unreservedly supports the proposal of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the Living Wall because there is simply no alternative here. Or we will protect our children to publish a public register, not to repeat these sexual exploitation of young children, and that is, we also see on the cover, that everything is buzzing, what is known, what is not known, who knows what is hiding behind it, and that is why I think that we should be the most restrictive in this matter and the strong message that we as parliamentary representatives should send and support this proposal and which is constructive and which is business killing done, means in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that is why I don't see the anxiety in HDZ on this proposal. You can support it, but you can't support it, but you can insult your colleagues in a way that is in accordance with the law and procedure prescribed by our Rules of Procedure, which they have otherwise denied and taken away the possibility, reduced the right to speak to parliamentarians, and now you're still using a pay phone to insult parliamentarians who through the bill want to change things to protect children from rapists, from under-age children from abusers or paedophiles. So is that possible in the Croatian Parliament? What did a colleague of Bunjac, a colleague of Pernar, speak ill of the matter of this law? What insults you in this law, gentlemen of the HDZ? So here you can simply side by side or protect as much as other countries that are listed, from the United States, Poland or Russia, whom not all, who have been publicly published by the register of paedophiles and we can use that possibility as parliamentary representatives and that is what the Proposer suggested. And not trees and stones on a legitimate proposal and a proposal that is a good proposal, not a good one, but a fit to protect young children and you come out here for a pay phone and insult those people who make this proposal. So why insult them? You can disagree, you can look for some way, but insult people in a way that is not acceptable. At the very least, you shouldn't have been on those parties' lists when you entered this parliament. You didn't want to be. Who told you that you must even be on the list of MOST, Live Wall or SNAGA, I don't know whose or should we change Croatia. I don't know why she's nervous. This law is, shall we, legitimate, legal and by procedure. Everything else is about hitting a personal level and I won't accept it because simply you who are advocates of democratic principles, the Istanbul Convention, you, and when you adopted the Istanbul Convention, are now even worse women's rights. They're less protected because it's just a PR, courting Juncker, Tusk, Tajani, Wolf, the only thing you do. And this home has this legitimate right to open a pedophile register and that's the minimum we have to do. And what's he got against it? You can be against it, it's your legitimate right and nobody slows it down for you. And if colleagues have suggested on behalf of their club this proposal that we both support from the MOST Club, I don't see any reason why you're putting that story down to some kind of personal level. And insult the people to do business, so they are chosen; they have received the legitimacy of the people, and the Parliament must decide on it. They don't need to be Andrej Plenkovic's bellies or Tajani or Juncker or Tusk, they shouldn't be. Where Tusk came from, there was also an open public register, a public register was opened. Here's where your political mentor is from your party, and even where Chetnik Vukic, president of Serbia is from. So, I don't think you've communicated correctly this time, first of all, which is more than excellent than good, to protect our children who have suffered sexual abuse from paedophiles and I believe that this proposal, we fellow MPs must support as a people's home, protect our children from rapists. but if you've been so much for [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Istanbul Convention. [[Mr. Bulj, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141675	We've got a break, here's an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141676	So, Reverend Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult after these scandalous statements by my colleague, Petrijevcanin, who accused me of voting against the Penal Code, so now I've asked for a vote on the official pages of the Parliament. The MOST Club supported this bill, I was not in the assembly and so shamelessly accusing someone and attacking fellow MPs, meaning they voted against something, which is pure falsehood, a lie, but seen by the HDZ, means without any concrete argument why they do not support the proposal of the Live Wall MPs, it just shows what they are prepared for. To which is prepared, colleague Petrijevcanin, who has lied here to the entire public, the entire public and parliamentary representatives, we have supported this proposal, just as we now support this proposal by fellow living-walled colleagues and should consult at all, we should continue any debate with such people, who serve such untruths, deceits and lies, just to justify the fact that they do not support this bill, that they are not on the side of the victims, but that they are on the side of those who commit these heinous crimes of sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141677	At 16 and 45 we continue, so I'll grant a break by 16 hours and 45 minutes. Thank you. It's 4:00, 35 o'clock. CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 16,44 Please welcome on behalf of my colleague, Pernar, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141679	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise one important thing, in America there are countries where paedophiles cannot live in the environment, nor move around schools, kindergartens, etc., and in fact their life, or playgrounds, is actually their life in the urban environment de facto impossible. And then what happens? There are so-called. cities, they're called shadow sites where these pedophiles live with each other, so they have their own city, a city where only paedophiles live, and there's no fear of children being abused, it's a town just for paedophiles. And why do Americans have that approach? So they have this kind of approach because they know that whoever's a pedophile that he has a sexual tendency towards children, that this de facto tendency is immutable, he can just say maybe suppress it more or less, but he feels attractive to children. And we're not looking for such radical measures in the Living Wall, we're not asking for, like, pedofiles to move out of cities until they go live in communes, etc., no. We're actually making a moderate suggestion, that the public knows who the paedophiles are and that when you have a pedophile in your midst, that you know that he's there. We're not asking the pedophile to move out of your neighborhood, out of your building or I don't know where, no. We're talking about convicted paedophiles. We're just asking that you as a parent, as a mother, as a child, as a grandfather or as a grandmother have the right to know who your paedophiles are around you. However, HDZ is against this, HDZ wants the pedophile register not to be publicly available to everyone, that people living around pedophile do not know that they are paedophiles around them, etc. And then Mrs. HDZ calls us for manipulation. Like us in the Living Wall, we manipulate God when we claim that they don't want to be public, and we want him to be public. However, I assure you that there is no manipulation here, this is a very simple question and a very simple subject. Are you up for the register to be a public pedophile, or are you against it? And as I mentioned, HDZ is against it. Also, I'd like to look back on another HDZ lie, which is that we are, now watch out for this spectacular thesis, if we had sent this bill now as part of an election campaign. No, ladies and gentlemen, we've sent this bill or amendments to the law long ago, by chance, he came to the agenda today. So this isn't where we decided on the agenda. If it had been up to us this proposal would have come to the table long ago and parents would have the right to know who the paedophiles were in their neighborhood. Unfortunately, thanks to HDZ, people cannot know that and in fact their children have been turned into potential victims of something that could have prevented children from knowing that before. Simply this system led by HDZ protects pedophiles, doesn't want to act preventively, doesn't want to allow people to have insight, to have knowledge, to have knowledge of who they should be guarding, but you just let the kids out, you don't know who their first neighbor is, you don't know who the man is across the street from their house, buildings, etc. Very, very regrettable of the party who has manipulated us on the Istanbul Convention on Protection, especially as a woman of sexual violence, but here is when it comes to protecting children from sexual violence even if it was women's children, if that HDZ says it can't, it can't, it can't. And why do they have that attitude? Now that's up to each and every one of you to ask yourself and to judge for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141680	Here's your colleague, Bunjac, since the debate is divided. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141681	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with a co-worker. So, instead of discussing the opposition here and the power to measure the law, we have witnessed the outbursts, meaning members of the ruling majority who simply wanted to turn everything to some personal level, to some alleged pulsism of the Living Wall, and to me at all, it's not clear how these people dare use the word pulsism at all, and they don't even know what the word pulsism means. So they don't know the definition of it at all, at least they know his history, but they keep dangling about it by wanting to glue some label like a guy you don't know what you're saying. And even if we accept that populism is a promise to be unrealistic, because I suppose that's what HDZ representatives interpret, then HDZ is exactly the biggest populist in the Republic of Croatia. There is no greater populist, they literally do not implement everything they promise in practice. Here, if you do not believe take the HDZ programme for the 2014 euro parliamentary elections, it is publicly available. What do they promise there? They'll find the missing in the Homeland War, and now we had a few days ago the law that you hadn't been found after five years. Are you going to promise that again in this pre-election program? You said the interest rates in Croatia would be the same on loans like interest rates in Germany, they are the same, they are not the same. They said they'd build retirement homes. Where are your retirement homes? Do you know how long you wait for a retirement home? He's been waiting ten years for someone to come in line. They said they'd finish off the highway to Dubrovnik. Are you done? They said they'd build four ports, Rijeka, Sibenik, Zadar, Ploče. What port did you build?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141682	My friend, I'm sorry, can you come back on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141683	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141684	Come back on the subject a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141685	I'm going back on the subject. We're being accused of being populist. I have to replicate the MPs which is populism because she obviously doesn't understand it. She said that in 2014, we'd have underwater tunnels to the island. Which island has an underwater tunnel? Well, that's, that peak of pulsism that can exist. So what are you going to promise next, that we'll have an elevator to Mars? Promise me, now's your chance, but your program is violence. You want to simply eliminate the opposition, destroy it, that there is no one mind and totalitarianism. You must simply understand that this current debate is seen by pedophile associations that are exclusively concerned with the victims of pedophiles. And I'm sure every victim of the pedophile is at this point on our side and not on yours. I'm sure of it. And that allows me to have a calm conscience as I speak. You face the victims of paedophiles, feel free to ask them. I'll give you the contact numbers if you want, so ask them how they feel about this bill. Do you know that there are 400% more suicides among paedophile victims than in other citizens? So are you aware that pedophilia is not only the cause of a ruined life but the cause of the death of our citizens and you find some excuses why it should be tolerated, why it is necessary to forgive some legal basis, constitutional principles, etc. And tomorrow you're going to go to the front of the agenda, listen to the attorney general's report for the kids, and you're going to hear that this whole system that you're praising so much, which you swear doesn't work, it doesn't work. The crime of pedophilia continues at this very moment as we discuss here. And you'll be smart and wise, under quotes for as long as it doesn't happen to you personally. And when that happens to you personally, to someone of your family, then you will be complaining and moaning and seeking the most severe punishment without saying that you will seek the death penalty, etc. So instead of arguing, we got a harangu, instead of arguments, we got anger, rejection where normally it's always the most important thing is who suggested what, who said what and not what was being discussed. But I am sorry that out of the mouth of those, that even those who pretend to be some alleged democracies, etc., do not respect at least the words of Pope Francis, who I repeat it once again for the end, said silence is not only tolerance but is also complicit in crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141686	We have a replica on your exhibit, but before the replica, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141687	Dear Chairman, you have injured Rules of Procedure Article 238, since the representative of Bunjac is full of 5 minutes and more than that and before him Mr. Pernar spoke about the topic which is not the subject of the debate, so they spoke about the pre-election promises of HDZ five years ago, about the port of Rijeka which is being built and... already finished, about the Pelješko bridge or the Dubrovnik bypass that is being built, which is not at all the subject of this law or today's debate and you have not used your authority and interrupted it in the presentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141688	Thank you, thank you. Thank you. Let me tell you, so I warned you... exactly to get back to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I follow what we're doing, but thank you. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Pedophilia is a very important topic and we must not share it, we must all agree on the fight against pedophilia and have a serious debate. The fact is that the conditions have been tightened and that the law that almost that register of paedophiles has done has changed, I will not say that it is permanent but almost in practice that it is permanent. And I think it's important to say that he's not a secret, that anyone who e.g. an employer who needs to know, because of the need to protect children, can access that data, that register. Of course, if we're going to have a serious debate, there's this space to improve the system. And I am absolutely in favour of those ministries that have to and certain laws to arrange where they may not be able to do things and improve that they do. But we also have to speak correctly, so it's not a secret register, a secret register, but it can happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141690	Comrade Stier, thank you. Answer, please. [[Intruder Stier: Thank you, Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141691	Thank you very much. Agent Stier, what I can agree with you is that the system can and should be improved, you did not go by that logic as your colleague that the system is perfect and that the better cannot be. And as far as the register is concerned, I once again have to call on the prosecutor's opinion for the children that this record is not good and that it is not available enough. And you'll hear it yourself tomorrow morning on the first item of the agenda, and if you don't believe me, ask her. So it's a simple fact and what it's called, and you just need to be more informed about it, not just when the debate is about an hour, two, listen and then forget it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141692	Thank you. I also conclude the debate on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141693	Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, First Reading, P.Z. No. 533. It is proposed by the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Representatives' Club. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: No proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of conviction, criminal records and rehabilitation is accepted, please vote. I find that most of the votes 81 FOR, 9 abstentions and 11 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141694	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Construction Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 332. Proposer is a representative of Miro Bulj on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, and the Government also delivered an opinion. Would the motionor like to give an additional explanation, Agent Bulj? Would you like some? Here you go. On behalf of the promoter, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141695	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, there is a law before us that I have launched in the procedure of amending two articles of the Construction Act, which could introduce base stations to the telephony obligations of the construction permit. The Republic of Croatia notes that the Republic of Croatia is the only country in Europe where teleopers do not need a building permit. According to the European Commission's report on the bottom digitisation index, the Republic of Croatia is the country where teleopers, mainly HT, have the highest profit in Europe. The government has rejected my proposal, it believes that the current situation is very good and it is barbaric to defend it. In a broad explanation, it mentions the Law on the Protection of Environmental Law, Health Protection, and does not say anything why the introduction of a building permit for teleoperators would interfere with these laws, mentioning a strategy for the development of broadband internet that has been adopted to facilitate the construction of a optical network and increase the number of subscribers in a fixed network. In this segment and according to the strategy, there is a digital gap for other countries in the report by the European Commission, colleagues and colleagues. Here before I go any further, I would like to welcome representatives, first representatives and representatives of the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions, who, as an activist, are long-term in the fight for the fundamental right of our citizens to protect health and not to violate the laws of the Republic of Croatia, of course, to be equal in the EU, not to be a colony in the EU. However, let us now move forward, the government states that the draft law refers to the obligation to issue a building permit within the building area, settlements containing the source of adverse emissions to the environment and emphasises that this problem is not part of the construction rules and that it is thus not possible to resolve it. The practices of other EU countries show that the claim that the government is serving us is not true. If all other European countries are looking for teleoperators to have a building permit, why are we so smarter than other countries in the EU and Europe that we claim that the problem of setting up a source of radiation cannot be solved through the Construction Act? Dear Secretary, here should be the minister, here, I am sorry that he didn't come at last and he says his position, I know that the current ministers have all been in the protection of teleoperators, but I will continue to list you and expect from you clear answers whether the entire Republic of Croatia expects your answer, while every day under the windows of our fellow base stations overnight as mushrooms after the rain, it is time to solve this problem, and we can only do so by this law, I am sorry that you refused this, but I expect that fellow MPs will accept it, is this home right. And I repeat once again, if we are so much smarter in the Republic of Croatia, the most advanced, better than the others, why has no country ever looked up to us and copied our laws? Why does the European Commission's 2018 report on the Digital Society and Economy Index put us at the bottom of the quality telecom network and top at the price of the Internet, and at the same time by the Corruption Index, Eurobarometer, we are at the top, of course, we are the most corrupt state, and teleopers have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. And here's the answer, the most corrupt, ma'am from the ministry, the state of the world, and all the ministers who have been ministers so far have favored teleopers, not only have robbed our telecommunications, what we have endangered, so national security is not in the hands of the Croatian system, which is supposed to be, but in the hands of foreign people, is our political elites being courted to foreigners. And that's why it's no wonder why the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia is 42% HT, Deutsche Telecom, and of course it's not weird why Angela Merkel will come to the Republic of Croatia. I am asking this law only that teleopers in the Republic of Croatia behave the way they behave in other countries in the EU, and especially in countries where they come from, so that they do not behave in Germany, so let him, so let the Prime Minister invite Angela Merkel and ask her why the teleoper, ask her when she comes in... To the assembly, when you clap, ask her why the teleopers behave like we're a colony, that's what I told Juro's Commissioner of the European Commission when she came here to Parliament, when all the colleagues who were downstairs were silent, I'm sorry what's left, part of the assembly here is empty, and I'm not talking about this topic seriously. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] 42% in the Republic of Croatia is profit, margin to operators, and in the EU is 23%, we have the worst Internet, and we are the most corrupt state, and you tell Angela Merkel when she gives you support to continue to support the withdrawal of money from the Republic of Croatia. If we want colleagues and colleagues to be at the top of the development of digital society and economy and at the bottom of corruption, we just need to rewrite the laws, so it is natural, from countries such as Denmark, Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands, because these countries are much more successful in digitisation and are at the bottom of a list of corrupt countries. In these countries, operators must have a building permit, I repeat, in these countries, where the smallest corruption is and where much less profits are made and where legislation is applied in the interests of their countries and the protection of their citizens must have a building permit. Only in the Republic of Croatia teleoperators should not have a building permit. And of course they have to consult with local self-government, with their neighbours, they don't need it in Croatia, so they don't need to consult. So what are we, their colony here? Today I asked that flag to you, not that Croatian I love, but that flag to you EU, is that a flag, are we an equal member of the EU only in relation to teleopers or are we their colony? Here's a question to answer. I ask to answer the question why the Croatian colony is an interested group of teleoperators and why the money is being drawn. Check their laws, check the studies of the global association of mobile operators in which operators compare the laws in individual countries and the time they need to set up base stations. Croatia is a record player. To set up a base station in the Republic of Croatia takes 2 months, and sometimes less and in most countries it is a year or more, so I'm going to set an example for you in France it takes 2 years to set up a base station. In all European countries, for the same pair of operators, it does the same pair of operators but with very different profits, different investments and different infrastructure quality. We know how with us, we know where the European Commission put us in the quality of infrastructure, i.e. connectivity, 27th place. And we also know how much the Croatian network of HT is, the profit, the margin, 42%, is publicly praised and the margin of the entire Deutch group, as it stands in their financial report, is 23%. And more HT boasts about the increase in the margin for the sale of EVO TV, so it recently boasts, what we did not get is of no interest but now it boasts of HT having a higher profit, even greater than 42% because they got on EVO TV. On several occasions with and on about this problem spoke in this assembly and the media alerted the process of hijacking EVO TV, a successful state-owned company that is non-transparent, not to say criminally committed to a foreign, foreign teleoperator of HT. HAKOM, a regulatory agency paid by Croatian citizens, is incomprehensible by refusing to extend the concessions to previous owners, the state-owned companies were suddenly artificially offended by EVO TV and thus a profitable Croatian company that successfully made it an easy to prey on a greedy teleoperer who was hampered by the threat of its monopoly and now the same monopoliest boasted that the margin had grown after the purchase of EVO TV. I believe that institutions will eventually address the persons who have allowed Croatian national interests to be compromised in this case. I ask you colleagues and colleagues, if you refuse this amendment to the laws that I propose that you will anger the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are protesting, at the base stations under the windows, next to schools, kindergartens, hospitals, church towers in Zadar and numerous, on cultural goods in Klisk Fortress and many other cultural goods, which in other countries is unthinkable to explain that you are against building permits for base stations, against introducing you into space, that you are to continue guessing teleopers. Thus, they can continue to set up base stations as cheap as they can, extract as possible profits from Croatia and keep Croatia at the bottom of the EU for digitisation. Do you think that citizens, colleagues and colleagues, do you think that citizens will not know that each of us voted and we see how much the interest of parliamentary representatives on this very, very important topic that is of national interest because simply everything I have stated has no other word but that Croatia in this case is a colony in the EU. The government says it will protect citizens from electromagnetic radiation, achieve other laws and regulations. But the fact is that in the Republic of Croatia emission levels are allowed to regulate other regulations, but there is a question of the appropriateness of those rules and, in particular, their implementation, especially in the case of populated areas. We know how this works in practice in the Simple Building Regulation says that the main project should be in line with spatial plans and that all certificates should be made. No one controls it, no sanctions, no responsibilities for teleopers at all. You have an example all over Croatia as long as you want and citizens from Dubrovnik to Savudrija know it, citizens from Varazdin to Vukovar know it. I'll tell you one example I mentioned 100x and we have countless of them, with me in my son's Radosic, after multiple interventions by the attorney general, the construction inspection has made a solution to the removal of the base station set up against the regulation on an illegal and unfinished house without a building permit and with an apparent violation of the City of Sinj GUP. The illegal base station has already been operating for the fourth year without permission, and for more than a year and 3 months, the solution does not respect a powerful solution to the removal, and unfortunately this is not the only case. The base stations are set up against GUP both in Zagreb and Istria and Dalmatia. And teleopers don't respect those laws that, let them try to do it in Germany, Sweden, Austria, or I don't know where they come from. And the government in its opinion that rejects my proposal, so nicely explains how everything is great... with our regulations and laws and how nothing needs to be changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, it's excellently arranged for teleopers, if they're asked, and no, and nothing should change in them. The government is obviously, the government of Andrej Plenkovic is clearly handling only this. Did we fight in Croatia? Is that why it was the Homeland War? To be a colony in the EU, a colony of teleopers in which citizens do not have the right to ask that base stations are not by the window of children's rooms, kindergarten schools, church bells or cultural goods. It should be stressed that all other European countries also have other laws and regulations that address the issue of exposure to the population of radiation, but all of them have an obligation to build a base station permit. Many countries have much lower limits of allowed radiation than Croatia. On the streets of Paris and Vienna, there are 10 megawatts allowed, per metre square. Which is 890 times less than 8.9 watts per metre square, as allowed on the public surfaces of Croatian cities. So 890 times more permitted in Croatia than in the streets of Paris and Vienna. But in Paris and Vienna, a building permit is required for base stations, and in Croatia it is not. Therefore, all European countries, the setting of base stations, and the question of their impact on health and the environment, resolve with other regulations. And by building regulations, building permits, practice clearly confirms that there is a need for this and that without it, protection of the population and space and quality of life cannot be ensured. The practice of other countries shows that the required changes to the law would only oblige teleopers to apply higher standards of the population, thus facilitating higher quality of life, but also better service. They would only reduce profits to teleoperators, but they would cut the profits to HT and still on average there would be an average profit on Deutsche Telekom, Deutsche Groups in the EU or Europe. The government further states that the bill significantly restricts the development of a network of mobile communications. The adoption of a new legislative proposal simply exempting antenna pillars from regulations would almost prevent further development of electronic communications and the introduction of a 5G network. I'd like to ask the government of the Republic of Croatia. How can building permits not allow 5G in any other country but only in Croatia? Does this claim by the Government that all members will follow our example and abolish building permits for base stations? I'd like you to answer this question to me. The government states that this legislative proposal is completely contrary to the objectives of the development strategy for broadband access to the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2016 to 2020. I would like you, Minister and Prime Minister, to explain this to me or to give us a concrete article in the strategy with which this one is in contrast. Here, I've got a strategy, tell me what this proposal is about, Your Honor. The strategy deals with fixed or fixed networks, and the building permit for base stations refers to mobile or mobile networks. The strategy points out that broadband connection density is 23% and on average the EU is 31.6%. And that there is a need for growth due to what is said to be a danger that the digital gap between the Republic of Croatia and EU member states does not increase. The strategy says that the density of broadband connection in the mobile network is 74.9% and 75.3%, respectively. If you look at the performance indicators of the strategy, station number 8, you can see that the success of the strategy is measured by increasing the number of connections in the immovable network. Dear Secretary, there is no Minister Štromar, so give him the same questions, but I expect from you the answer, please explain to me in which way the building permit for base stations in the mobile network can negatively affect the above-mentioned indicators of the success of the strategy, i.e. the immovable network, and with which part, the dog, the sentence from the strategy, is my proposal in contrast. Please answer that. Furthermore, in response to the government, one reason why it refused to introduce a building permit for base stations is mentioned measure 5 of the strategy's action plan. I hope, Madam Secretary, if Prime Minister Plenkovic has not already read measure 5 before signing the Government's opinion, that you have done so. If you're not, you can do it now, I have her there. To measure 5, an analysis of the procedure that previously issues permits for the construction of broadband infrastructure shall be accompanied by an emphasis on the collection of necessary consent and the resolution of property legal relations. So don't you see that solving property-legal relationships refers to light grids and cable laying. I repeat in the strategy is stressed, the digital gap between Croatia and other members in the light grid, and the success.../incomprehensible/... strategies are new by increasing number of connections in the immovable network, I repeat in the immovable network. When the Government in its reply mentions measure 5, it must have solved measure 4, measure 4, according to the establishment of the central repositories of the catastra lines. Resolutely, local self-government units will have data on the length of the waterways in their area, they will be able to charge the right way without a problem, which has been practically impossible for them so far, and for that I have given the law in a procedure that has not yet come to the agenda. It is about the huge resources of local self-government and, of course, private and physical persons. For this reason, it is because of the absence of cadastrian lines, the units of local self-government are being kidnapped by huge funds financially and are being rerouted as income to foreign teleoperators, and of course most of this is HT. In Croatia, the length of the DTK sewerage is 25,000 km, if the price from HAKOM rule is applied to this, it is 250 million kunas of income units of local self-government, the same units of local self-government that do not have health services, no pediatrician, no radiologist, no kindergartens, no solution of basic, transportation of students, free textbooks that would be important for the survival of people and remember. Teleoperators, our politicians who have opted because also one of the larger stones, will not be a rock that has caused our people's emigration, because they're pulling huge money from the Republic of Croatia, and I've told them how much money they have. In its response, the Government did not state any argument why operators in Croatia would not need a building permit for base stations, if they need it in all other European countries, why we are the only ones who do not need a building permit for base stations, including, of course, those from where they come from. I call on you colleagues and colleagues to correct this injustice that is done to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of the Misetic dynasty which governs this government, regardless of Angela Merkel, regardless of the interests of officials within the EU, it was Juncker, Tusk, Macron, and in this case Merkel. Let's protect the Croatian citizens. Let's not be their colony, we as parliamentary representatives must not allow you secretaries, ministers or prime ministers to be the Croatian colony of foreign teleopers. The question I asked Andrej Plenkovic here, Prime Minister, and several times written, was why foreign teleopers behave in the Republic of Croatia, why do they not behave like they do in their own countries? I didn't get the answer. It was at 11 months in the current hour, and now it is a few months, said Minister Butkovic, or who not or Minister Štromar, would respond, however there is no answer. There's no answer. My fellow Members and colleagues from the majority, I am sorry that there is no one from the SDP except you, the Honorable Chairman, and I am sorry that there is only one representative left from HDZ, but I hope you are also throwing this at a time when you expect that people will not hear this problem, and you need to know that there are 1,000 focal points where people are protesting, that I am telling you as an optimist, at Radosic at Sinj you used the police who had to prevent us, bring in writing, that after 3 years or 4 it would have been proven that the base station of the man who came from Australia was never a black man who came to Australia, who came to Australia all his capital and his life has invested for that house. The base stations hide like some chimneys in the bell towers, so if you ladies have your children's secrets, imagine a situation that under the window of your children or your grandson I don't know what you've got, but we all have someone of your kind to win your base station. This is what people experience in Croatia. And he can't hear, he's getting stronger and stronger. I've been an activist for 10 years. In particular, I would like to commend the Croatian Association for protection against electromagnetic radiation that I have been working with for many years, before I was a parliamentary representative, when these same teleopers called me police to prevent them from legal rights at the base station. It is the same in Split, in Pujanka, in all Split, Dubrovnik, Klis, Solin, Zapresic, Zagreb, wherever you turn, they behave however they want. We have the opportunity to regulate this legally, but no less than all EU members, then this is not a flag, we are not equal. If we don't pass these laws to be the same as in other EU members, then we're a colony, we're a colony. But I love, above all, the Croatian flag, and above all, the Croatian people and the MPs chose us to protect the Croatian interests, the interests of our citizens, and not to be ecologically threatened, the space is disturbing and, plus, health people are jeopardizing, human health. So the primary interest, not only does this construction permit law, where the base stations, the Latin pillars, there are other laws, it needs to be solved by the Ministry of Health, by a rule of 1001 times. I wasn't a parliamentary representative I wrote together and with help, i.e. With the expert advice of the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions, I repeat, which led the battle, but their voice was not heard. But here, thank God, there's their voice in the Parliament. Maybe it wasn't what the teleopers expected four and a half years ago that someone would be... since the first day, since I am in this House, I am exclusively talking about this problem, that the Croatian colony, foreign teleoperators and other stakeholders, but in this case, just for example, the gain and behaviour of foreign teleoperators, it is visible how our political elites are courting their... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU, they're acting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I want colleagues and colleagues to hear a strong voice from this House, because it's our obligation, from... At home, it's the Croatian Parliament, because people who are now protesting hundreds who call us, we had round tables, we even had a stands, recently, have in Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Varazdin, where, together with HDZ, an organised tribune and where HDZ opposes the Varazdin, against the setting up of base stations, and their representative in the Assembly, on my amendment 10-15 days ago when it was voted here, to be installed, to be built-in, to have a building permit, for the teleoperators to vote against that amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I expect, I have this article here, but later I'll read it, which was, at the rally, which they were saying, at a meeting that is HDZ in Varazdin, thanks to the association that cooperates with everyone, who has faith and needs it. And I expect that the HDZ will cooperate with both the SDP and the Living Wall, I see that they have cooperation, they have cooperation with me, I forget more how many years. Therefore, I expect that we, as the Croatian Parliament, will vote, that teleopers, have to have a building permit for base stations. No less, no more, I am not asking for this proposal, but what they have in all EU and European members, colleagues and colleagues, I expect you to do this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141696	Thank you, Comrade Bull, thank you. At your presentation, we have two replicas, that's a colleague of Grmoja and a colleague of Sincic's, here's a colleague of Grmo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141697	So, colleagues Bulj, I would like to thank you for your involvement in this issue, meaning, not only since you are a parliamentary representative, but also before, because you have fought this unfair situation, in which teleoperators in Croatia, without construction, without a location permit, set up base stations, and I cannot do so in any EU country, but as you yourself have said, unfortunately, this is the relationship between ourselves and our country, and I have talked about it even on the board. But here, we have the situation we have, we've had the constant position of government, that we shouldn't go into building our own aggregate optical network. And unfortunately, one of the key persons in the cabinet of the diameter of Plenkovic, that's Mrs. Plenkovic. Micetic, he's very connected to the HT, and maybe that's exactly how he is, because that's the lady. in that place.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141698	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141699	Thank you, dear colleague Grmoja, I would start at the end, I think that, the Misic family has too much influence on the management of the Croatian state, mainly from this part of the influence on teleoperators and I think this is one of the major damage done to the Croatian people, because it feels like that man, who sees where the base stations are being built, how they collapse this vast and see the people that we are a colony. That you as a government, that the government doesn't have the strength, publicly loud, so if you need to talk to teleoperators, you can't tell us, like I did for the first time, when I mentioned this, then the headlines, all the teleopers, stop Mira Bulja, will bring us back to the Stone Age. No, I'm not asking, no less, with this proposal and other suggestions, to be and to have, to behave teleopers like in their own countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141700	My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141701	Thank you, Chairman. It is absolutely necessary to regulate the law, that building permits, such as they used to be, as the whole of Europe, are not only the EU, but the continent and some other laws. To illustrate just what a toad and an illegal state this is, our Croatia, we have done our own research, on 106 randomly selected base stations in the City of Zagreb, and the results are humiliating, I will present them in my speech. This is how you respond to most of them, there are no recorded and issued acts. No items have been recorded for the requested data. In other words, wrongly, without acts, everything was built and built. And the government can be alone and its representatives, we see on the graph since 2007 how time has gone to today, the station has increased and the number of acts issued has been dropping. Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141702	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141703	Comrade Sincic, you are absolutely right, without authority and lawlessness towards foreign teleopers is unimaginable. At the same time, while Andrej Plenkovic is calling for an orderly state, while calling for friendship with Angela Merkel who recently, here will be at the rally, at the same time, that same Andrej Plenkovic, who, on my question, in a place where now the secretary did not want to answer. Why are teleopers in the Republic of Croatia not acting the same as in countries, where does it come from? I didn't get the answer. He said I won't answer, the minister will answer, I don't know which minister, I haven't got an answer yet. Which means, I'm inviting citizens out of here, to join together, or through the association... or I don't know how or how to stop this hack, the teleoperator of Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141704	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Does the government's representative want to give an additional explanation? Here we have the Secretary of State at the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mrs. Dunja Magash, here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141705	Chairman, honourable parliamentary deputies. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the draft law supplementing the Construction Act submitted by Miro Bulj, a representative at the Croatian Parliament for the following reasons. The proposal for a law supplementing the Construction Act concerns the introduction of an obligation to issue a building permit and works that are built or carried out in areas of long-term stay of people within the construction area, the settlements contain a source of noise... more than 40 dB of electromagnetic radiation, invisible spectrum or other unfavourable emissions to the environment, resulting in better control of such buildings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The object building or works may be built without a building permit and in accordance with the main project which must not be expressed contrary to the business plan and which must contain the certificates of the public-legal bodies prescribed by specific regulations. Furthermore, the investor is obliged to report the start of the construction or execution of works, ensure that the construction is carried out in a manner consistent with the main project. Also, for the construction of an antenna pillar of electronic communications equipment, including electronic communications equipment and for the performance of works on the existing building on which electronic communication equipment is installed, antennae acceptance, a useful authorisation should be issued. In this connection, we stress that local and construction permits are not the only permits or acts to ensure that certain buildings meet the prescribed location conditions and basic building requirements at a specific location. In this case, this shall be fulfilled through the production of the main project, by the outcome of certificates to the main project in accordance with specific regulations and at the end of the issue of the applicable authorisation. Furthermore, any building that is built or built without the main project or other act is considered to have been built or built without the main project, if the main project is built contrary to the spatial plan. So if he has a major project designed against a business plan, then it's illegal construction and objects of building inspection, i.e. issuing a solution to remove such a building. Following the above, in the construction of the buildings in question and the implementation of the works in question on the existing building, full compliance with all the prescribed rules including specific conditions in the field of health protection has been ensured, and this is precisely the way that the main project must contain the certificates of the public-law bodies prescribed by specific regulations, including, inter alia, the confirmation of the Ministry of Health. It is also mentioned that when designing construction, construction and carrying out the works in question on the existing building, investor, designer, contractor, it is necessary to comply with all the rules and rules of the profession relating to their construction and that such buildings and such works on the existing building must not be designed and constructed or implemented if they are prohibited by a spatial plan. Furthermore, we draw attention to Article 3. The Law on Electronic Communications established the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the field of electronic communications in such a way that electronic communications infrastructure, the performance of electronic communications networks and services, spatial planning, construction, maintenance, development and use of electronic communications networks, electronic communications infrastructures and other related equipment declared of interest to the Republic of Croatia. As a result of the law of established public interest, we believe that the proposed law in question significantly restricts the development of electronic communications networks and, in particular, the network of mobile communications. Taking into account the accelerated development and the upcoming introduction of new technology, 5-generation mobile networks or 5G shortened, the adoption of this bill, which would make it almost impossible to further develop electronic communications in the Republic of Croatia from the current implementing rules on simple and other buildings and works. It should also be pointed out that the problem which, in the opening points of the proposed law, intends to be regulated by the proposer, is mostly not part of the construction rules and is not possible to resolve by amending or supplementing those rules. In particular, the strength of electromagnetic fields and the impact of electromagnetic radiation on human health are covered by specific regulations in the field of health, with an emphasis on the main project, in accordance with the Construction Act, it is necessary to obtain and confirm compliance with the basic requirements for construction, hygiene, health and the environment. Furthermore, we also point to the goals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with regard to digital transformation and inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the Digital Single Market of the EU and with regard to the plan for the introduction of 5G services and gigabits of society which were adopted by EU Ministers at the EU Council meeting in December 2016 and according to which at least one city in Croatia should be covered by 5G network until 2025, 5G should be in all major cities along all major roads. Those objectives will not be possible if the administrative procedures proposed to introduce this bill create additional obstacles to the construction of high-speed electronic communications infrastructure, thus becoming a deterrent factor for investment in that infrastructure. This proposal for a law is in complete contrast with the objectives of the development strategy for broadband access to the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2016 to 2020, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in July 2016, as well as with measures set out in the Action Plan of the Strategy that provide for simplification and not aggravation of building conditions. In this respect, it should be noted that there is a space for improving the building and spatial regulation rules under the 5th Action Plan of the Strategy, simplifying the procedures that precede the issue of permits to build broadband access infrastructure for the next generation in order to foster investment in development and infrastructure, in the direction of reducing administrative barriers and simplifying the procedures for the construction of high-speed electronic communications networks. In this respect, it should also be recalled that the provisions of the Law on measures to reduce the costs of setting up high-speed networks which have been transposed into Croatian legislation by Directive 2014/61/EU in order to reduce the costs of building those networks and simplifying the construction procedures. We believe it's an order. 2 of the proposed law supplementing Art. 128. The construction law needs to be reviewed from the point of view of other regulations. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the HS not to accept the draft law supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Proposer Mira Bulja, an MP in HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141706	We thank the secretary of state, Mrs. President. Magash. There are two replicas on the exhibit, Sincic's first colleague, and after him, a colleague, Bulj, here's a colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141707	Thank you, Chairman. Unfortunately, you've only read it without any real contact. The main difference between a building permit and a major project is which one of the main projects we have now is that no one asks the neighbors anything. Put yourself on some plot, on some house, the neighbors no one asked anything, and they're on a radiation strike, so it's a regulation that's simply inadequate for others. The second thing, you were saying about, that it's not, that not all the permits, useful and location, are not, there's something called, of course, the permission to use a source, issued by the Ministry of Health and, of course, by law and by regulation, there's a register of such issued permits, except that there's no. In fact, we have about 6,000 base stations, for all of them, the Ministry of Health should run a nice register, when which, what are the levels of measurement. The answer to my representative's question that it doesn't exist, so five years since it was supposed to be run because that's when the law and the rule, five years are simple. So there's no... [[Thank you, colleague.]] It's illegal and it's on this side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: A colleague. Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141708	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141709	Thank you very much. The activities of spatial planning are part of the work of local self-government units, this stems from the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and from our special law, the Law on Spatial Planning. In the process of making spatial plans, the public and the interested public and all citizens have the right to participate and to give an opinion on the spatial plan, so this is a public document brought to the presidential body. So the local self-government unit has the authority to propose spatial plans and to determine those procedures in space or certain locations where certain procedures in space will be prohibited for construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141710	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Comrade Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141711	Thank you very much. Dear secretary. I gave my position on the Government's opinion as a proposal. You haven't answered a single question. I ask you a question, why is it that only in the Republic of Europe, not only the EU, does a building permit not need to set up base stations? Answer that question in front of the public. You say the laws of teleoperators are respected. They don't respect your laws. Here, on Verbani here in Zagreb. Ask people how they behave, on Radosic, usurped our space, under windows like mushrooms after rain, without the consent of neighbors, without the knowledge of local self-government, zero base station overnight. Just sitting next to your window. You didn't answer because the answer was given an opinion that I saw on the board and that I got, that's what I have. But that is the opinion written by Angela Merkel to protect the interests of the German company, not the interests of Croatian citizens and Croats. Because it is a shame not to have a building permit in the teleoperator alone in Croatia, I ask you why? We wouldn't, as parliamentary representatives and the Parliament, have the teleopers have to have a building permit for base stations, if there are in another country, and you don't answer that question. I asked the same question here and Andrew Plenkovic. In the case of illegal base stations, such as in Vrbani, here in Zagreb or as at Radoš near Sinj at 1000 other places. Why aren't you removing them? Why aren't you removing them? Well, people have health problems because of that base station. They have fear for their children. We have an increase in the number of tumors. For what reason, who will be responsible for the lives of these children? Who will be responsible for the injury of cultural goods where the base stations are? Who will answer what is being placed on the base stations on hospitals, children's kindergartens on the most, institutions that should not be near, in violation of the GUP of local self-government, such as in Sinj and in other and in Zagreb. And in Istria, which has brought a spatial plan like the county, and the teleopers don't respect them. You can't, because the Mishtetic Dynasty is over you. You must not protect the Croatian interest, but I understand you, you must not and you know that you must not. But I cannot understand fellow MPs who will not support that the base stations have a building permit as well as all the countries in the EU. Why do teleoperators have 42% profits in the Republic of Croatia and 23% in the EU, in other member states on average, Deutsche Telekom? Can you answer that question for me? Why are we at the bottom, at the top of corruption, at the bottom of the Internet, what are we for? Can you explain why? Can anyone give that reason? Because we are a colony of political stakeholders who do not have the courage to oppose and protect ourselves, above all our children, our territory, our space, and the profit is derived from a teleoperator who invests who knows who does not invest in Croatia. In our privatisation, our politicians allowed our infrastructure to go into other people's hands to pin it on someone and now you're guessing they're doing what they want, we can't allow us to be colonies, foreign teleopers and other groups in this case of foreign teleoperators. And as representatives, we have the right not to, the obligation of the people, that base stations, must be built with a building permit. Everything else he wrote, it's in Angela Merkel's office written in HT administration, with the co-signature of the Misetic Dynasty. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, we are representatives of the people, we must protect this people, that teleoperators and other institutions treat Croatia, as well as other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141712	Thank you. There's a replica on your intervention, that's my colleague Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141713	Dear Representative Bulj, we fully support your proposal from the Living Wall, we agree that teleoperators should have building permits to build base stations, because the current situation, where each of them builds it, where it is willful, where we actually have no record, where they are at all, and where the citizens of many, exposed to radiation, are certainly not good for human health, and one of the key reasons that I would point out is the opposition of citizens, the setting up of these base stations near them. Today, citizens are powerless, because they can't even participate in a public debate at all, because there's no public debate, and no one is watching whether the transmitter is placed literally above your head or near your head or below your head. Simply, this law, currently legalized anarchy and introduced chaos into the state, and it urgently takes years, so you have to have a building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141714	Thank you, time. Replication response, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141715	Thank you very much. A fellow Pernar, visited, was an activist in the fight to set up base stations, for a building permit, however, they nicked, from day to day, people by the window, and even a number of leaders allowed him to rent his land by someone else's house, next to someone else's child, to set up a base station, not wondering if that child would get sick, gave that child a test rabbit, which would happen. So 1001 is why we have an increase in tumors, but the fact is that in Croatia, in our cities, 890 times more radiation is allowed, legally, than in Paris and Vienna. But both Paris and Vienna need a building permit, one in the Republic of Croatia, doesn't need a building permit, and then a respected secretary reads the government's opinions again, which I referred to at first. So our government is acting like Angela Merkel is writing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141716	Thank you. We continue with discussions on behalf of the club of representatives, first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, colleague Nikola Grmoy, please welcome colleague Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141717	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and this assembly bear witness to the interest of this important topic, what is the interest in the health of our citizens at all, what is the interest in relations with the state at all, is, as I said on the board, the state should be held, and this relationship shows how much we hold to the state, how much we hold to ourselves, how we hold to our citizens. No colleague Bulj, who is the most consistent, most persistent health fighter for Croatian citizens, for the equal attitude of teleoperators, towards the Croatian state, towards Croatian citizens, means I am not looking for anything else, except that teleopers behave in Croatia, as they behave, or, as they must be, in other EU countries. We ask that when setting up base stations, construction and location permits must be established, that they must ask for consent from neighbours, from people living in the area where the base stations are placed, but here is the Government of the Republic of Croatia's refusal. I remember that I fought more and more times for Croatia to build its aggregate network, however, the government has consistently expressed opposition to it, while, once upon a time, the secretary of state did not say that Croatia would go in that direction. I don't know what's going on and whether it's done at all, but it's very likely it's not doing anything. Just like they don't want to settle things on this one. And why won't they settle things? Because Deutsche Telecom, that is, HT has too much influence on the Croatian government. Maybe that's why I said it in Mrs. O'Donnell's replica. Misetic, because her parents, i.e. her members, mean close family members, are closely tied to this large company, which, he says, is a colleague of Bulj, extracting profits from Croatia. It is not a problem to extract profits from Croatia, to extract other companies, but it is a problem, which is the company in a privileged position in the Republic of Croatia. In one, so we have one duopol and other than that we also have this situation, where base stations are placed without building permits. And the government doesn't want to change that, the government keeps favoring the teleoperators, and he mentioned fellow Bulj, I remember that headline in the Morning List, the two-point teleoperators, stop Mira Bulj. And why would it stop him? What he's looking for, which is not logical, which not everyone should normally support and that those same teleopers who shout stop Mira Bulja don't have to respect in the countries they come from. It's just that nobody from the MOST Club was against investment in infrastructure, against having faster Internet because here we all are, all the time we're on a cell, probably citizens when they're watching, so what they're doing, is these things, we follow, and on the phones that we're checking the information, here's my colleague here accused me of voting against the law that goes in the direction of tightening or harsher punishing those who sexually assault children, here's that I didn't have that phone, I checked on our phone how there was a vote and I saw that the MOST Club supported that law at all, and that I wasn't in the assembly and I didn't vote at all, but she accused me that I was, so that it was an auxiliary tool for work, without the Internet we couldn't function at all today, so that we weren't against, so we invested in infrastructure, we weren't against the base stations, but that there was certain that there was going to be the rules that the West that we didn't going to be. We will not agree to this, we will fight it hard, and those who have extradited, so HT Deutsche Telekom, it is HDZ and SDP, they are not here today, they are left here by a lonely fellow Loncar as the last Mojican in the defense, so the teleoperate in the Republic of Croatia because he is ordered to stay here, that fellow Bulj, means, a fellow Loncar will defend the government's position here, will defend the teleopers and defend, so their position or position of the government that the teleoperators should not come out of the building permit and no one else is there, except for what is the vice president of HS because he is already here, but it's scheduled for him to be there and the man is there because there is no one from the SDP, and there is no one from the last Mochican, and that is that's us from MOST and our colleagues from the living wall that we have to be the same attitude in the same way that the same state. And that's all we're asking and from the government we haven't heard any logical explanation why this proposal by colleagues of Bulja would not be accepted. After all, if your problem is to accept something, we know that this government, that Andrej Plenkovic doesn't like Mira Bulja, we know that Gabriela Žalac told him that it would be better if Zagora hadn't given birth to him, we know that Prime Minister Plenkovic came to me physically in HS, so you don't have to accept this law, make your law, you put him in the procedure and we will support him because he's going in favour of Croatian citizens. And we will each of your proposals and this has proved ourselves now even though our HDZ colleague has tried to prove that we have not supported their law, we are, as well as colleagues from the Living Wall, we will each of their laws that goes in favour of our citizens, which protects the health of our citizens and which adheres to the principle that the Republic of Croatia must be equal to other EU countries, or that in the Republic of Croatia the same rules as in other EU countries must apply, we will always support such a principle. Europe as we see it is a Europe nation, we do not want any European nation in which they will actually profit the richest, most successful. And what is also interesting in the context of this debate where we have a situation where some countries are more equal and in some countries certain rules apply, and in some countries they are not worth it, for example. this proposal on the compensation fund, or cohesion funds, where the risk of emigration would be taken as a criterion on which to allocate these funds that we have in the compensation funds. Everyone jumped on that suggestion by God Petrova and you know what happened? Yesterday, the Prime Minister in Brussels said that we need a special fund to be set up for countries that have problems, demographic problems, and now everyone is silent. Where are those critics now? Where are the men who have been attacking us all these days? And to make things better, I find a speech from March at a plenary session in the European Parliament where Ivana Maletic says the same thing as Bozo Petrov. But when we suggest something, then the attacks start, then the mockery begins, so here you go. As you have now copied the idea of a compensation fund as the prime minister stole the idea from God Petrov, which you have through your commentators, parts of the media, for days of attacking, steal and Miri Bulju this proposal, he will be happy and satisfied, you refer him to the procedure, and we will also vote for him because he is going to the benefit of Croatian citizens, because he holds to this state, and you do not hold this country, only to what you hold his own pocket, until you hold it, we have seen here when you went to force to push the Law on the financing of political parties, referendums and promotions, when we have been here bravely in HS, but all you have done is to bring the law into force, the same day you brought it to the president to the president to sign the law, you have published it the same day in the National paper, the same day, and that you have carried it all of the law into force, and we will bring it to you to the full extent to the court. In every law where you go against Croatian citizens, against the interests of Croatian citizens and against the interests of the Croatian state, we will strongly oppose you and any proposal that goes in favour of Croatian citizens, so when you propose it, we will support it. But you don't have any good will, you don't have the courage to say it, and I'm sure even this proposal by your colleagues Bulja, that the teleoperators are ordered that when setting up the base stations they must have a building and location permit, I'm sure you won't even copy it. You won't because you can't. Not because you are deliberately working against the interest of the Croatian people. You don't do it on purpose, but those who are above you say you have to do it, and you're just doing your job. You're just doing your homework and going back to the Croatian people with this list of chat chats. Because it's you, you're chats, you're chat chat chats. And no decision that goes in favour of Croatian citizens will be made here in the Croatian Parliament. I, too, have a club of MOST, as president of the club, as the political secretary of the Most, give full support to this proposal by our colleague Bulja and the entire club of Most stands firm behind this proposal and will support this proposal in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141718	We continue to debate on behalf of the MPs' club, following on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I apologize, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141719	Thank you very much, I would just say briefly that there was not even a question of party membership here because we have a possibility on the ground, here after my colleague Grumoja, because here follows the HDZ Club, to say here that in Varazdin there was a tribune on April 10th where the HDZ is organized with the Croatian Association for the Protection of Automagnetic radiation where it is opposed to the established base stations means that they are set without this building permit, without meaning exactly, so that the terrain also sends a message to HDZ that it is time to stop and protect these citizens, that the teleopers do not behave as they do. I would simply repeat what is said at the outset about the government's opinion, so why don't other countries rewrite our law, when ours is so good in the EU, when we're the smartest law, the best law, the most transparent law where teleopers have the highest profit, we have the worst internet, where corruption at the top. And in other countries arranged, such as Sweden, Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands, we have the need for building permits, I don't see any reason why in Croatia we don't prescribe this law and we'll say these are developed countries, they have the need for building permits, because building permits need a procedure, so they need to pass the procedure, and not in this way we let them break spatial plans, make fun of each other. Why? Because political elites depend on them. I am pleased to hear that our representatives in either Croatia or the European Parliament are fighting for what chocolate is, I do not know that it is worse, Nutela, but I would prefer to hear this reflection. Here, I would prefer, why in Germany teleopers need a building permit and why in all the countries of Europe, not only the EU triba building permit, and in Croatia not the triba. Yeah, that's the key question. Which, or we are more developed than Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark and we are the smartest and best law we have and not the tribune building license, and the teleopers have 42% profit, the worst Internet, and we are the first to corruption, at the top. It's all the other way around, so everything here is simple. The citizens won't take this ride of yours, I brought this shirt on which you see whistles, teleopers above the law. I'll take it bravely, and I'm aware that teleopers have a big influence in media space as advertisers. And that many media don't smell this writing, don't smile, here I tell them by respecting these people, that's their bread, that they don't smell the words against the teleper, except against me. Here, I'll take my clothes off in public and show you what it says, come on, you guys. Teleopers are above the law. Above our citizens, betrayed systems are above all else above our government. So, the Angel Merkel telegrapher without her blinking can't do anything. And now you're going to meet her here, it's going to be about the migrant, this solution that's why you're going to.../incomprehensible/... how she helped us solve these problems or how you're doing it. Of course, what else is a woman going to come to Zagreb has her company's biggest profit and has the least investment, and the most it draws from our citizens right there. Instead of us investing that money in education, health care, demography, she's pulling that money out and Angela Merkel's coming, that's the big news. I respect Mrs. Merkel, but I respect the people of Croatia more. Well, we can't go through their interests, the interests of Andrej Plenkovic or anyone else in that diplomatic incubator who runs the state, designed by Budimir Loncar. Well, we can't because of these people, the whole people are getting laid, so it didn't bleed for it. That foreigners are pulling money out of Croatia and that is why we have a worse depopulation of 2/3 of Croatia empty because of this behavior that people are leaving us because they profit not in Croatia but in their countries, where our cup will work on that profit, but they will build up their country. And that must not be said, gentlemen, otherwise we are not worthy of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141720	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the next colleague, Davor Lončar, is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here's a colleague of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141721	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues from Grumo to tell him something and I have nothing against absolutely no one's opinion. How anyone will express their views, behind whom he works, and how he behaves. However, as I come from the local administration unit and how I've been acting for 25 years and how I've been listening here today to stories of some people who don't know the system, who don't know the law, and how units of local administration can and must and work when it comes to setting up antenna pillars and removing everything from the field if they harm their population. One of the first ones to escape an antenna pole from the school yard was my name and last name. Why? Because radiation measurements showed that the one who had previously been placed there had disrupted human health. All the activities, to prove what I'm bringing to you right now, have encouraged the man in charge of the local administration unit because it's both on him and on duty. The law and the one on construction, and this Law on Simple Buildings, says exclusively what is the task of investors, supervisors and all other participants in the construction that must be respected. And the obligation of the Self-Government Unit to monitor any failures if there are and to indicate that it is the responsibility of the contracting authority to remove them. Within certain deadlines. In my community, you have 3 antenna pillars that are miles away from the settlement. And that in their function simply gives us the opportunity to have contacts, etc. I'm not going to talk about situations like someone being nice to someone, I've never in my life helped anyone else absolutely in anything. I'm not gonna do that until I'm head of the council. And as long as I'm a congressman, I don't care. Just for a little while. I've had more than five billion kuna investments since the postwar reconstruction. I hired 1700 people, and when you find yourself to go to one of the businessmen, but to go to one of them who'll say that I took the coffee for here, because it was my duty to do it. Then I will never be in this House again. I am, and that is why I would like my colleague Grumoja to be the responsible man who won't and will never give himself for anything other than giving himself to his people. I won't talk about war because I spent the whole war and I don't want him here. And these things I hear here, with a spatial plan, and remember those of you who want to remember and who you want, I didn't come here to teach you a lesson, but I know what that means. With the spatial plan of all municipalities and cities and counties, the state has defined everything as well. And all designers, supervisors, contractors, contractors who seek both projects and permits must respect spatial plans. Against those who do not respect spatial plans, they bear sanctions. And fellow Bull, I can get you. All the mayors and mayors who don't act so as to put aside what you say, the problems, and there are, are responsible. And I can't say they didn't know. That's not what I didn't know. I knew it existed and I knew I had to solve it and it's not in this case with such antenna stations and similar duties the ministry does. It's just us working in those places. When it comes to network charges and I have to supplement or correct you, you have a lot of municipalities in Croatia, cities that are collecting compensation. And it's not a small asset, it's a very large asset. It's a different story that half of my colleagues didn't go to that realization. And they had the possibility of legal and not one but x times. Now I hear there's gonna be bigger fees, that's better. The alignment of certain kilometers that has never been before, but it has to be coordinated. The situation on the ground is different from writing papers, laws being passed, but we are all obliged as citizens to respect these legal standards exclusively. Why don't you need a building permit for the antenna column? Just for a little while, let me explain. You don't have to. Because it's a simple building. In order for any of them to set up an antenna pillar, he must have dozens of conditions, on dozens of terms authorized... in Croatia, to set it up and the last thing he must get is the consent of the municipality or city that gives him consent to whether it is with a spatial plan, whether he has brought all the conditions and only then can he go into construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not at all. And it's not exactly a story about not asking for consent. So the municipality asks for consent from its neighbours, from the neighbors first to the ones there. And if that's not the case, then the municipality doesn't give consent or the city. And he can't, no matter what his name is, set up that antenna stage station. I'm sorry that certain things are done in a way that people send some messages that have little truth, I won't say there isn't, you have what my colleague Bulj said in Zadar that, but it's not the one who put the bell tower of the church there has worked against the law, and I know that the measures against the one who put it, have taken it, and I know that there are those who do it, and I will never do it in my life because there's no reason to justify them, but in your proposal I don't see anything that would give an improvement in the setting or removal of the shortcomings in this law because it's, once again, the buildings that end in a very short time of construction and that don't require a solid building in terms of what a family house or I don't know, some other building. ... I don't read everything he says in the spatial plan. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the spatial plan, with its application of the provisions, etc. It's only in jurisdiction, I'm coming back, the municipalities and the cities and Mrs. Magash, the secretary of state, mentioned well here, when making changes or making spatial plans, the procedure takes a year, two, all are publicly called on to give their opinions, to make their proposals, to be a public debate, and it really takes and after all the implementations, but literally all the implementations, and nobody hides the development of a spatial plan, or to change the spatial plan and everyone can be given, here I recently completed the changes and additions of the PPU and exclusively invited people to give their proposals and stands and organized everything, and that if they go to a little notice something that cannot stand in the spatial plan, which destroys and health and everything else, it simply can't be there, and the measurements are very important. It must only be if not monthly, then at least every third month given indicators and they are at least doing so with me, every third month delivering us a measurement report and for measurement, I am not an expert to be able to do so, but I call on an expert to be on that measurement, so there is no man in the Republic of Croatia, is it the mayor and mayor who, because of someone's interest, will put an antenna pillar in some vicinity and that he poisons his people, his... It's impossible, I don't accept it anywhere, no one. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I come back once again, that there are cases that pass by knowledge, there are, and we all need them together if we know who they are, sanctioning and carrying all of what they belong to, but if we were to stick to something like that, and we were guessing in a way that we give to a telecom or I don't know who I am responsible for, of 426 municipalities in the Republic, that none of my colleagues, but no colleagues, and I've been very good at this system for a very long time, I've said before, I didn't notice that he was doing anything opposite in a way that he would have done anything to please Deutsche Telecom or I don't know who, and so we'd really like to know that about the facts, and I'd like to have a colleague dear friend here in your proposal to have something that would be fixed in this law, I'd be a happy man, believe or not, I would accept it. But here I'm not, reading what you gave, I didn't see anything special that could improve... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, no law is sacred, nor is the Bible changing, let alone the law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I ask you that if we want something smart, solid to bring, then the laws on simple construction, all those elements prescribed, all those that can be built without a building permit, and so I say, I appeal to all those colleagues, mayors, the mayors who have the possibility, and they have, not to give consent to the setting of Athens pillars because that and this law allows them. Unless they have implemented what I said before and at the end of the period of the construction, a useful permit has been issued, but all actions, designing, execution under supervision, etc. were previously to be carried out. to obtain a useful permit. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141722	Thank you, too. On behalf of the promoter of the intervention of my colleague Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141723	Thank you very much. Col. Loncar, only in the EU's Republic of Croatia does the triba base, nor the triba base stations, nor the triba building permit, the only one in the EU. Teleoperators have the highest teleoperate profit, mainly HT, the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, 42%, in other countries 23%, and I'm not asking this for anything, but to behave like in countries where they come from, this bill. And this is what all citizens who protest under the established base stations as an example of Radosic where I mentioned, where he was 6-7 years ago. So, personally, I was stopped by the police to prove a few years ago that the base station was set up illegally. So the base station is the only one in the Republic of Croatia that doesn't have a building permit for teleoper cell base stations. I'll read you another piece of information, but this would allow the building permit to decide that the mayor and the mayor don't have to deal with it, that he can't, but simply on the whole territory of the Republic of Croatia it would be the same if the whole EU and the whole of Europe, even in Serbia-Montenegro, the building permit, even means, outside the EU, if you tell the whole EU to a simple building permit, I'm just asking for them not to be simple buildings, and that's exactly what I'm looking for. Why? If you request a register, I have requested by law, based on the right to access information from HACOM, I have received information that from 2014 to May 2018 more than 400 units of local self-government have applied for payment of the right to the road, meaning more than 400, and only 17% of the solution or authorisation has been issued that they can charge for the right way. Since teleopers refuse to pay, they are filed against by local self-government and judicial suits, local self-government, it's a teleoper, it's a teleoperer, is this government colleague, not this one, but all governments have favored teleopers, they have taken away what was Croatian from our citizens in privatisation from what was called this president of HT-? Maybe you're in a replica, a little bit better, so you'll guess, so she's robbed our infrastructure and now she's favoring the teleoperators, so I can give you a 1001 example of where the citizens are protesting, so here in Varazdin, your party is organizing a trial against a base station set up in a populated place, on April 10th held together with colleagues and colleagues from the HUZEZ Association. What does that mean? So that only as the body of the largest in the Republic of Croatia can we pass this law, I disagree with you that we can't do anything, that this proposal has no, no, my proposal just writes what all EU members have. Is why Finland has, why has Sweden, why has Germany, why has France, why has all of them have building permits must, and only the Republic of Croatia does, it's a key question and it's a clear question because it's simply a bit harder to travel in the Republic of Slovenia, in the two months to set up a base station, and most of them are set up faster overnight, such as Radosic and numerous other dishes in the register are not written enough, they're not all listed and they're placed on children's kindergartens, hospitals, hospitals, for cultural goods, I can tell you here when you go to Klisa you'll see how much, cultural goods, they can't do it in Germany, you know, can't and then give him the logic one that makes the biggest teleperate in the Republic of Croatia 43%, and the smallest investments, and the biggest corruption in the Republic of that teleperator, what does it tell you? That what our old ones are, and probably you've been paying phones then when the tribal is in the infrastructure, has become a foreigner, no one has won, so, those shares, of those who bought them, but ours have opted for a pass, later they become presidents, Mudrinić seems to me to be called, is that, what do you call it, they're eligible and now they still have the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia. Imagine that 250 for the right of service outside of this, that they have to build a project, that the road, the access route, they set base stations where they think of it, I'm not saying in your local environment that I'm not familiar with, but I can find you 100 units of local self-government where they break the GUP, break it in Split Zagreb, Sinju [[Intruder: Thank you]] Wherever they think of it. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141724	There's a replica on your exhibit, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141725	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I agree with you in the part where you get it, that it should have been regulated differently, and that's where I agree. However, in these other things in which a period of time is mentioned in your proposal for a permit, I repeat again, the spatial plan of the unit of the local administration is defined di can be set up base station or Athens column. In spatial terms, in terms of measures and provisions, if you take it, and then read it, then you'll see, does it say what a simple building requires through this rulebook? So nothing can be done unless it has respected the spatial plan, and in the spatial plan, the only ones who have the right to control in their area are the municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141726	Replication response, here you go, colleague Bulj
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141727	I understand that the rule of simple structures here, everything, everything is clear to me. However, again, it is crucial that the Republic of Croatia, within the EU, all countries and Member States have a building permit for base stations as a legal framework except for the Republic of Croatia, or that we are better than all states, here and Germany, so where the strongest teleoperator comes from is similar to those teleopers or we will attribute their or we will smoke that they have the highest profit. Well, they, I said earlier, don't pay the right of service, 400 units of local self-government, and they have to sue, they don't want to pay, 400 units, this is a formation of what it means to those who now get the right to information. Therefore, I absolutely do not seek anything else with this proposal, but that teleopers have the same conditions in the Republic of Croatia as in their own countries, I think it is a minimum and it will make it easier for local self-government, I did not speak individually... with the administration of others, but [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is huge all over the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]] problem. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141728	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please welcome colleague Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141729	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the Construction Act, only three articles are being amended in this law or the amendment of the Proposer. However, a very important article, a key article, before I go to my debate, I will just mention this part of the spatial plans. Here's a representative of the government, Mrs. President. The secretary said that here's everything in the spatial plan, that's defined, and if they break, then the inspection removes it, I don't know, I guess the punishment, I don't know did say that part, like Mr. Lonchar says, but in practice it's not like that. The fines are otherwise hundreds of thousands of kunas by the construction inspection, for that part about the applicable permits and hundreds of thousands of kunas, if I'm not mistaken, up to half a million kuna for that part of the sanitary inspection regarding radiation protection. And why isn't that so? Because it exists from the time of the SDP and the HNS government in 2012. Regulation on criteria for the development of electronic communications infrastructure and other related equipment, therefore, Government Regulation, where it stands. 9th antennae acceptances placed on existing buildings are not planned in spatial order documents and this Regulation is an alibi, this Regulation is an alibi for any attempt, therefore, removal or movement of base stations based on a spatial plan. You don't think there was an inspection report? You don't think there were any lawsuits for that sort of thing? This has brought down all of them, therefore, so much about the spatial plan, let's go now, let's go in turn please just by the way I'd like to say, that as far as the sanitary inspection is concerned, she doesn't have a record, there's no record that should be kept by the Ministry of Health, i.e. Health, it's that register I was talking about in the replica, so he doesn't even know where it is because there's no 6000 base stations around, about 2000 per teleoperer should be listed in that logbook with all the data, where, when a particle, measured radiation and after 3 years when measured, it should again be in that register, it doesn't exist. And you've been asked by the attorney general, for years she's asked you to publish that, that's public data, give it to the citizens, see if this base station, is it his base station, is it illegal or not, no, you in your boast, you in your service, I don't know which word to use anymore without being creative, to ignore it all. Let's move on to the beginning. The key difference between a building permit and a major project is what I mentioned, so the neighbors are wondering what they think about construction. Now you don't do it. Someone builds, you have an example of Maria Gorica, here is not far from Zagreb, Mr. Lončar, go there, a small municipality on a private plot was built a base station. I guess they convinced the owner in a way that you'd better have on your own home, on your own pitch so he doesn't radiate you, better he radiate his neighbors and protest for a long time against it, and no tool has ever been able to remove it. That's why we need a building permit, not to say there's an entire Europe, and these stories that will slow down the development of telecommunications, please nicely, by digital development index we're 27 or I don't know which, 26. So other countries that have a building permit, they're 1st, 2nd, 5th. So it has nothing to do with each other, it's pulling things out of context. The general state when we talk about this problem, about building base stations, can be characterized very simply, for one thing, by lawless construction, we have slow and expensive communication, this also tells us the index of digital development, we have an old infrastructure, in our strategy everything is actually based on the couple still involved. We've got huge teleoperator profits, as we've heard, endangering human health, environmental pollution, one lawlessness, and what might be one of the worst things, the cartelisation of something that should actually be a market. Instead of competing, they compete in certain segments, but when it comes to base stations, there is a cartel that does not introduce order. So we're not talking about the rule of law, we're talking about the Wild West or some kind of jungle. Our analysis I also mentioned in the replica, I have it here, the analysis was carried out on 106 randomly selected base stations in the city of Zagreb. of 106 randomly selected base stations in the city of Zagreb, we asked the competent institutions to give us the data they had under the law had to have, therefore, from the permits, from all those registers and all of what was prescribed, the results were devastating, so 69.82%, so about 70% of the base stations were made unlawfully, which means or without a building permit while it was supposed to be or without the application of the start of construction. Here they write here from the Ministry of Construction, a pipe from the city of Zagreb, when we give them both a picture and a cadastrian particle and a location, we don't have it registered, we don't have it in the register, we don't have any data in it, and it's there, so it's virtual and so it's 70%. And to make things worse, a valid license, 90% of the base stations don't have a valid license. Total Wild West. We normally extend the analysis, not just to the whole of Zagreb, but to the whole of the Republic of Croatia, it is a more extensive job, when we finish it then we will present it to the public, I can freely assess after all I have learned that the situation is very similar to that of this random sample. Let's go, please, to one of the important things in this whole process, there's some on HACOM's pages, I think it's mapping.com or something like that, mapping.hr, list, I think, and I think it's interactive, where some of them are if I'm not wrong, 4700 mapped base stations, so I've sent out queries to our teleopers as much as anyone has base stations, so T-com has 2060 says their director, for A1 we know that there's about 2000, but for Tele2 I haven't got a response yet, let's say that there are 6000 and 4700 in the map. Therefore, I suspect that over 100 of them are missing in the database and that the matter is even worse, under all this data, you have even a HAKOM fence, HACOM is being fenced against the data, says it is not responsible for that data and why is HAKON not responsible for that data he published on his website? Because they weren't his, but he got them from Telekom, and he just published them, he didn't do any checking on that data. I will point out that according to the World Health Organization, so radio-frequency electromagnetic fields, they're probably carcinogenic to humans, that's their designation, category 2B, that's based on research by the International Cancer Research Agency, that's the official position of the World Health Organization, by now going into reviewing that status. We know that in certain circumstances electromagnetic fields can be harmful, so eventually we have a Law on non-ionizing radiation that includes not only electromagnetic fields but also ultrasounds and sounds, so we're asking for order in all of this. Let's move on. In addition to this work on construction, we have the part about health, so who is involved in this work at the Ministry of Health, or sanitary inspection, would not believe but is a sanitary inspection. According to my inquiry, and inspired and by the actions of the attorney general, I've been looking for public information, be careful now, I've asked for public information to be provided to me by the Register of Electromagnetic Fields, the Ministry delivers an answer as follows, I simply have to quote this. I quote, by provision of Article 2. The rules on protection against electromagnetic fields are defined by the concepts and meanings described in 25 points. Under point 24 there is the definition of the register and the time limit for the entry of the data is not specified and the making of the registers is ongoing. Okay. The 2010 Act, the 2014 Regulation First we waited four years for a rulebook and now for another 5 years we have been waiting to get that register, but it says further, given the dynamics of setting up new base stations, reconstructing existing and introducing new technologies, data are constantly subject to change. It is designed to find an adequate information system that will allow optimal monitoring of data. In other words, if I'm looking for something from the Register of Associations now, they suit me, here's what we can't give you, although you have that right, although it's public information, although we have to run it by law for 10 years now, why can't we give it to you, because we're still here starting an association and we don't have it. I mean, it's amazing what a lawlessness, what a mess this is. People who may be directly at risk of health, who want to know, who are legally entitled to know, cannot get that information and the embarrassing answers given by the Ministry of Health, and why does it give such answers? Because that book doesn't exist. This notary does not exist, and if it does not exist, of course, that the sanitary inspection cannot act and punish the antenna by half a million kuna each teleoper, because it does not exist, simply have no legal basis to act on. Except that the measurement is done after the base station is built, that I am not going into the whole process from the first step to the last step as to how to set up the base station, after every 3 years it should be re-measured and that new measurement should be recorded in that register, but since it is not there and no one knows or seems to be interested in it, of course it does not, therefore, we do not actually know whether there is a base station, at the time it is built or now, whether it is in accordance with the law, in accordance with the restrictions it has on radiation or not. Total, total void, no one, like you do on software, we don't know, and such pathetic excuses, and people potentially get hurt every day. They take doses that are dangerous, potentially receiving doses that are dangerous, you can't tell them anything, whether or not they're wrong. It should also be noted that, as far as HACOM is concerned, HACOM is normally not for measurement purposes. He's doing them extraordinaryly. HAKOM is an exceptional measure, so we have no guarantee that everything is within the limits. Most likely it works in a way, I'm told by the people of the system that, what teleopers as investors deliver, HACOM does a little checking that budget, doesn't go on the ground, doesn't measure but check the budget mathematically, just put a signature on it, calculated and level on multiple points of increased sensitivity, that is, if I'm not wrong with the exact term. So instead of serving as a regulator, he serves as a router, as a forwarder. Forward simple papers and therefore probably there comes that fence and since it has not made its own measures etc., it is not the author of these data and measurement but is being built on them, because they are others, of course, as I said at the beginning of their interactive map. This problem cannot be solved only by the Law on Construction, we, just today on today, delivered the 8.5th in the procedure of the Amendment Law and the additions of the Law on Protection against Non-ionizing radiation, have it here in my hand. We thank one HUZEZ association for its quality cooperation and for its great help in raising the quality of life in the Republic of Croatia. Inside, among other things, we have defined that these changes specify the division of exposure areas, so they are especially rules for places where infants, children, minors, etc. Then we ask that standards rise to a whole higher level. Health assessments have so far been working on the immediate thermal effect, so let's say for the heat of the skin due to radiation, but it's never taken into account long-term exposure, so we're asking for those standards to be adopted. The 98's are just out of date. And we're also asking that a special body be introduced that would follow, therefore, a co-ordination body for non-ionizing radiation that was abolished years ago, I don't suppose it would be an obstacle to this wilding of base stations and all of that, to all this mess that exists and lawlessness, is now being introduced by a new technology, the technology of a new generation of 5G. And with the skepticism, we approach one of those ideas. The more than 200 scientists signed a petition to delay the whole story, and here, I'll just mention the article, let's just say from Brussels, the Brussels Times, where, here's the minister in charge of these issues there argues the introduction because the new technology can't bring already prescribed standards of radiation. So we're looking for a more serious approach and we're going to win this, as we've accomplished. that used to be heresy, and now it's gonna be [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141730	Thanks, buddy. On behalf of the promoter, intervention, colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141731	Thank you very much. Here, after his colleague Sincic and the facts and arguments he presented, he essentially complemented that this proposal is simply an alternative and that only with this proposal and these other proposals because it obviously doesn't work either, so the base station registers simply don't work. However, in this law that I have proposed, it is simple and I will repeat it once more. Construction licenses for base stations are tripping in all EU and European countries, I am also talking about EU countries such as Serbia-Montenegro need building permits. Which is why they were lifted from the building permits that were needed, I don't know who hit who and why. The fact is that you have an example at Joy where it is against, so both against the GUP of Sinja and contrary to this consent where the base station was set, the police blocked, the police had to hitchhike, there were protests, but now it stands and only after 3 years came the solution of this inspection, building inspections to remove. Since last year, however, the base station remains illegal. We have Verbane, had a 1.001 example of illegally placed base stations. We're talking about base stations, we're talking about antenna pillars, and it's not here to stop the development of teleoperators, and of course very important networks, meaning our Internet, not just the other way around. With this law that I have proposed, all we ask is that teleopers in Croatia behave like in countries where they come from. And to invest and to pay the right way it's another law, but to invest. Is when he has a building permit he must have the consent of the neighbors. It can't happen that at the window of the children's room the base station on, in on this particle to someone's house, someone's apartment building, kindergarten, hospital, bell tower, can't. So we have thousands of illegally placed base stations at this point and they're nothing like mushrooms after the rain, and what a colleague.../incomprehensible/... now said that the truth is that there's no register, that the Ministry of Health is the tribal to arrange and these, to reduce these radiation limits, that's something else, so we have a whole spectrum of solving this problem as arranged in other countries. But the first step and the basic step is a building permit, believe me. Of course also respecting GUP units of local self-government where these teleopers do not respect GUP either. Do I know here in Sinj is 10 meters from the house, and it says to GUP that it must be at least 50 meters from this building land where the building is built. However, he had another problem, what, which we forget in 2013, the healthcare world organization said the possible cause of the tumor was the radiation of the base cells, electromagnetic radiation. So the possible cause of the increase in the number of tumors and some research tells us where the base cells are within 400 meters that radiation is increased, I'm talking about the World Health Organization. That the number of tumors was increased, mostly brain tumors. Which means this isn't the thing to play with, we need to protect our citizens, our citizens' health, and in other words, space. I can't believe it when I go to Klisem, seriously that fortress of the historical fortress that's burning the base station as big as it is, and we have a near hill that's bigger, but the teleoper won't do it. Why? Because he has to do project documentation, he has to make and pay for the electricity infrastructure, everything he needs, and he doesn't want to invest, it's much simpler to put it on the cultural well-being that's really good for the fortress, the Kliška fortress is a historical fortress that is on it the base station that is burning. So that means our space means we're improving, it looks ugly. So there are more aspects of this than this means ecological, spatial, and other and financial aspects, because when a building permit stands, do we simply have to learn from all the other states that are more developed than we are, do we have to, not allow us to be their colony? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141732	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary Dunja Magoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141733	Thank you very much, I would like to respond to Mr Sincic's esteemed representative, concerning the Regulation on criteria for the development of electronic communications infrastructures and other related equipment in which you have defined, you have read certain provisions that are in collegiate with the Law on Spatial Planning. So I will also give you the Construction Act, because we have fences in our laws if regulations are passed or regulations are in force, which are even governed by certain questions, they are governed by our special regulations, the Law of Construction and the Law of Spatial Planning, then our laws apply, meaning the Law of Spatial and Construction. That's what Article 4 says. The law on spatial regulation, that paragraph 3 of the provisions of the specific laws and regulations adopted under those laws shall apply in the implementation of this law and the implementation adopted under this law unless otherwise prescribed by this law. So what I said about space-planning documentation and what the esteemed representative Lončar said was that everything is defined by a spatial plan and can be banned by a spatial plan and every major project must be made in accordance with spatial planning-documentation, it still stands. As regards the process of issuing building permits, it is wrong to say that to issue a building permit, the consent of the neighbours must be obtained, no, not in those procedures in the space where the building permit is issued, but in the management procedure in which the neighbors are informed about the procedure in the space. So, the prerequisite for issuing a building permit is not the agreement of the immediate neighbours and I would certainly like to reiterate that the location and construction permit in this case as regards the construction of antenna pillars and antennae procedures is ensured through the main project, and the main project must be built in accordance with the spatial plan, the main project must be managed and confirmed on the main project. Therefore, the basis of the specific rules must be built in accordance with the Construction Act and with other regulations, the applicable authorisation must be issued, and all those participants in the construction process shall be called upon by all representatives of the public administrative bodies who have given approval to the main project and the competent authority for the issue and use of building permits on the basis of which they are established that all the prescribed conditions are met, that they... on space made in accordance with the main project and needs of the main project, only then can a valid permit be issued. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141734	We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague, Grumoja, and after him, his colleague Sincic. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141735	So, here, we haven't received any arguments in this debate by the government, so, by the ministry and what we've been looking for and what my colleague Bulj is asking for is that the teleoperators in the Republic behave as well as in other EU countries. And you know what would be good if you brought this debate? A colleague of Bulj has a very good nose, when some topics are caught, it turns out that I am reading it right now, so in the media EU court, the Republic of Croatia did not respect obligations related to the Black Hill in Biljani, although it has been warned since 2014, remembers here probably Mr. Bukarica, and the other parliamentary representatives that my colleague Bulj has brought expenses from Biljana, here he gave it to the president of HS, warned of this, here we now have, from today and the ruling of the EU court, so be careful what you do, Croatian citizens will Seeking Probably Your Rights [[Intruder: Thank you]] in European institutions. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141736	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Sincic. Replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141737	Absolutely. I'm afraid that we live in two different countries, however, something connects those two states, and that's this letter to you where it stands, a sector of location permits have no location permits issued on the cadastrian particles in question. So from the 106 locations we've been looking for, among other things, the City of Zagreb, etc., you send this sentence for 90% of them, it's your reality and reality is what I said... And what you're saying, I'll be happy to deliver, there's also a court ruling on how the rule is applied, interprets, so that's reality. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141738	And now, on behalf of the proposer, final colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141739	Thank you very much. Dear Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, here at the end regardless of the opinion of the Government which is negative, I believe that this law is simple, that these two amendments are very simple, simply asking for these changes to be changed, means that we are the same conditions for teleopers in the Republic as in other countries, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues who have given support to colleagues from the Living Wall, I am sorry that the other opponents have not come, they are probably too long in politics, that they are well wet around teleoperators, my colleagues from my club, again I repeat, this is a very important topic, this is a matter of importance for the lives of our citizens, it is a topic and spatial, it is a topic and ecological, it is a topic and economic me and financial me, because it would simply make a much richer country such as Finland, such as Germany, as it is important for our citizens, it is necessary for us to make sure that the EU citizens in Croatia, because we have not know that we can be able to work with our friends, because we can be able to stay with the EU, because we can be able to stay, because we can be able to stay in our friends, because we can be able to stay in the EU, because we can be able to stay in the EU, because we can be able to stay, because we can be able to be able to be able to stay, because we can be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to work to be able to work to work to work to work to work to work to work to work to work to work to work to work to work to stay with the EU to work to work to work to work and to work to work to work to work to work and to work and to work the right to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to work and to work to work to work to work to work to work to work and to be able to work and to do to work to work and to stay, and to work and to work and to be able to be able to be able to work and to work and to work and to work and to work and to stay, and to work and to stay, and to work and to work and to stay, and to stay with the right. said, so, we had to locate, identify, arrest and process, so, Croatian generals, not one, but all of them, so in that advocacy we forgot about these things that are crucial in the interest of our citizens' lives, we forgot to protect here our IGP, you are immediately behind our Zadar, I am in the hinterland of our Split, so we did not protect our fisherman, we will have to sell the land by 2020. Agricultural and foreigners will be able to buy agricultural land, while in Hungary legal and physical persons will not be able to buy what did not work for all Hungarians throughout history, it has succeeded in you in this government that you gave INA to Hungarians, then I played a song, Hungarian flags raised by Hedervara, so you got angry, although it is a patriotic song that was sung out of your mouth in the 1990s, and INA Hungarians, so let's not let telecommunications and teleopers have that much profit in the Republic, the poor country of the Republic of Croatia, and members who are not members of the EU, Serbia-Montenegro, they need permission, so imagine how much money it is, so somewhere it's just that 10,00 kn is paid by the right of service, there would be around 250 million kuna, not counting on them, so much money would be paid in terms of health, so they don't want to pay their money, so much money in terms. The conclusion, this Association of HUZEZ very well knows, concluded, that the possible cause of the brain tumor is the base cells, possibly, I repeat again because the research determined that within the 400 meters where people live, is a long-term increased number of tumors. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know that teleoperators, this won't be able to accept and I know that the government depends, all governments depend on teleopers because it's huge power in them, they have their portals, they have their advertisers, I'm aware that this is a fight, but this is a fight, I've been it before, so rather than being a representative both as a man and as a citizen, along with its neighbours from neighboring villages trying to stop that monster of teleoper's haught because they acted as if they were above the law. So we just have a simple formula here. If you claim, the Government that everything is fine, why don't the European states prescribe your law? The strongest teleoper is German, why Germany... You will donate Angela Merkel when this law comes to Zagreb and that we do not need a building permit for base stations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you want to do that? Well, of course it's funny because you're laughing, but it's impossible to look into your face at all because it's exactly how you treat her. And who's going to build some infrastructure, of course, we're going to promote it a little bit, so there's going to be conversations and arrangements. So I'm simply speaking the language of a common man and I hope, no matter what this is the last item of the agenda, that people will recognize this message. I'm not asking for anything more from this bill, not me or my colleagues from the Most Club, but what's in other EU countries. I know that even the secretary here in the Parliament is nervous, that he's spinning his head, and I know that everyone's nervous about this because everyone depends on the teleoperator. He would have been the happiest if this law hadn't been proposed. And what's good? It's a good thing there's still a voice in this House and believe that this voice won't stop. Even though no one from the SDP has come except you, the Honorable Chairman, and you've been a minister and you probably know relationships, you know that I'm right and that you can't play with teleopers both bravely and loudly. I'm disappointed that on this side, just a esteemed colleague of Loncar and I, I respect, no matter what we disagree, which he has more sided with to be simple with buildings and to be easier to set up base stations, but the fact is that the shortest year in other countries, and even in Germany for 2 years. Excuse me in France, it takes two years for a building permit because it's a state-of-the-art. So, not only that, but today in Croatia, we have 690 times allowed legal radiation of base stations, but in Paris, Vienna and similar other EU cities. So in the City of Zagreb, in the town of Split, Sinj, Dubrovnik, 690 times the radiation allowed, lady, you deny me, on the round table you were invited all of you to the ministry, I organized a round table, I would like to thank everyone who came, I repeat again, mainly the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions, and beyond all Mrs. Ankici... I would be unfair and unfair not to thank this lady and this lady deserves a minimum, and we know each other before I was a parliamentary representative in some kind of activist activity when we organized the stands where experts talked about this, and you are aware that I am telling the truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know I'm telling the truth. But we're not MPs from the government here. Dearly esteemed... Answer? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is there no building permit in Croatia alone? Why not just in Croatia? But believe me, this fight won't stop. This fight will develop no matter what you put in this watch and when the media's attention isn't at its peak, but it's going to come out in the media, believe me, no matter what you control over the teleoperator simply because you live off them and their... And the truth must not come out, and whoever dreamed it three or four years ago that it would be said this way in a parliamentary pay phone, but not because we stop the teleopers, but that they invest in Croatia, I mean, they have a 42% profit, 43%, they're praised for how much money they get. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They boast about how much it is in Croatia to get. That it is bigger than in other EU countries. A fellow Grmoy just mentioned a black hill, the same ecological problem, and I had the same thing in my cetin area, and that's why they locked me up. The same cost industry was supposed to land up the river Cetina 10 years ago, I was brought in, locked up, too, said it was healthier to put off that cost, that it was healthy, I guess, just to eat, to fertilize, yes. Let them dung it with their cottages and houses run here from the black hill and what they were going to put down in Sinj. So black hill, we are going to need our Croatian state today, the European Court has ruled that we will have to pay the fine. I brought this black hill of garbage here, why, but no one's a dick, they've all given up on these people, and so is this case. They raised all the people, why? There live the people of the Serb national minority at the black hill, and these people are simply left to themselves, I came to them, not Milorad Pupovac, whose birth village is 50 meters, Milorad Pupovac sets up a code, which killed Blago Zadar provocatively, your coalition partner, your coalition partner provocative advertising. Exactly where the Treasure of Zadro died. It's your coalition partner, he didn't go to those people of Serbian nationality and ask what you're breathing and how you breathe. So in this case. Yes, your coalition partner. Right where Treasure Zadar died. You know you've been thinking... Not because it bothers me, but I live with people of Serbian nationality and I am extremely proud of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many even took the rifle into their hands as well as 9,000 Serbs. But because of this provocation, where man defended his country, they put up that poster. That's your message, yours is more important to you to trade. It's important to you. And then fake tears, as you will shed false tears on these teleoperators when our people are evicted because this goes to the biggest profit in Croatia, not the ones in Croatia, the teleoperator, but in countries where it comes from and of course, our young people can't build here when the profit is not invested here, they will work, they have to do the vanka, so we don't have nurses, so we don't have a doctor in 2/3 of Croatia so we don't have health services, we have pediatricians, we have no radiologist, we have nothing. We favor foreign teleoperators and therefore I ask myself once again, I ask you, this flag that I love, the flag of Croatia, as we all love, are we equal since we put this flag to which you are sitting, proudly, which is raised, we have joined the EU advocacy, guessing both against farmers and against our fishermen, means we have only guessed, the only thing we see is good and successful in this that we need a building permit for these base stations, that we don't need, that we're not even going to import that milk because there's no cattle, which is why, this is behavior. I could still just look back at this presentation of yours, so you wrote, I asked the Prime Minister here on several occasions and in writing, why did the Ministry of Civil Engineering ask you, you didn't answer a lot of questions, I asked you all the questions I asked you, you didn't give an answer, and the key is why Croatia doesn't have a building permit and why it has a profit so much but the key question and the current law that we have, the current law, why does the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning not want to react in the cases of now-set base stations and its activities allow teleopers to profit illegally? So that's the first one. I also asked in writing, what the Government will respond to the European Commission's criticism of the weaker results in the development of digital society and the open... that the introduction of approved optical networks financed by EU funds is blocked at country level and that Croatia risks losing EU funds? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The prime minister said he would answer the Minister of Construction, the Minister of Construction wrote in a memo about which regulation he is working on and which base stations I did not ask about, but a very different question and you do not want to answer because you favor foreign teleoperators, it is much more important for you to have a relationship with Angel Merkel, fascist Tajani, Juncker, Tusk, Chetnik Vukic and his party, and bring him here to Zagreb, much more important to you than solving the problems of base stations, building permits, survival of people in this area, solving and other problems that we have here. You answer that if I read it to you, but I spoke to you here several times in the Assembly, I do not accept the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a pronoun, I do not accept on behalf of the Croatian Association of Protection against Electromagnetic radiation, numerous associations of Istria that call me and support this law to Dubrovnik, to Vukovar, Zapresic, St. Sunday, Split, many other cities where people oppose and have a focus too much and believe me, they will not stop at this. They won't stop at this to put this last point in the afternoon and we have to fight. I was brought in for this, blocked, unfairly, not me with my men who fought, we had to tie ourselves up with chains so they wouldn't put in a legal, illegal base station, so they put it in the night when no one was there and when they knew that the man had gone, and once again, they would send all these people a message to look at what it was about, so they would send a message to the HDZ in Varazdin that organized the stands recently and their representative here, the Striker or how, our fellow representative, votes against me too, and the night before the vote when I gave the amendment, there was a tribune in Varazdin, there were ladies and gentlemen from the Croatian Association for Protection against Electromagnetic radiation, and just so you know, I don't know which foreigners you't know, let you go to which party, otherwise than I do. So this is not a party issue, it's a question of being equal, and it bites me the most, it bites me as a proposing, what are we not equal in the EU, why is this flag, that we can take pictures, that it's nice to sit next to it or be equal? And I am sorry that no voice has been heard in the Council of Ministers and Commissions, nor has the European Parliament heard much of this, brave and strong. He didn't hear it. And the euro breaks, and what Merkel, Juncker, Tusk, is going to say, they're going to fight for their people, you're going to stick to each other and name someone in some commission or I don't know what, you have to act that way. And I'm concerned mostly more about the opposition than my fellow living wall. Most of the biggest social democratic party, which is obviously at this interval, I don't speak people, membership, has also dipped deeply into the interesting lobby of the teleoperate because it's unimaginable for me to say nothing about this law and not even my colleague who advertises well here and not the grave in the shade. Better a slave than a grave. So silence, the journey of great parties. A silence and you're so intertwined that we can't just pass the law. So if SDP had not had the strength to go out for a pay phone and say I support or do not support as a colleague of the HDZ Loncar said, he bravely said, I do not support the law. And from the SDP no one came, I mean the opposition, I mean I'm sorry here, I'm sorry it didn't come and said, I was in the stands,... The MPs of the SDP were even coming to those stands, we were together, and HDZ, I call on everyone to go to the stands, round tables, but I am saddened that we absolutely do not have the position of the largest opposition party in this law and no smaller partners except for smaller opposition parties, except for colleagues who I thank once again from the Living Wall who are here all the time on the same path, on the same trail means the same as we do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I suggest you colleagues and colleagues to support this because if we want to be developed, if we want to follow means the digital development of a digital society raises to the top and economy, then we can and must, and if we want to reduce corruption, then we have to be unanimous here, we have to be those who are going to change the world, I'm a little sad about what I'm saying in front of an empty hall about a very important topic, I know that this is what the President of the Parliament has purposely put on this time as the last point of discussion, of course that the public in the morning would not hear but I'll really try and walk like so far and open these topics everywhere, and I'll call everyone on everything, and I believe that you won't tell you gentlemen at last time, you won't be licking foreign teleoperas until our children have no pediatrics, while they die without a pediatrics, until you have an ambulance in 2/3 of Croatia organized. As long as we don't have an education, we don't have any kindergartens, we don't have... 2/3 of Croatia is empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? Here's because of this servant relationship and indeed you've been in charge, sacrificed you, of course the minister has not come nor come, sacrificed you, you've had to come to this and it's simply incomprehensible to me that no reason has been given to solve this, which is decisive through this law, means as one point of possible resolution but you're not interested. Gentlemen, thank you for staying, those who aren't here, I believe they will hear, that they will support these words but I don't hope they will support it, but I don't hope because they haven't even shown their position on this law. I always try to say my position when I'm here but I expect that tomorrow's vote will become a decision-making centre in the Republic of Croatia and it will not be Brussels or German cities, nor French, but we simply have to get to that level to protect our interests. And this is the way I call Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who refused to answer this question like you, which is why teleopers in Croatia do not behave like they do in all other EU countries, but we have made it clear why. But he won't go as far as he thinks, he won't. It fits in the neighborhood and Sanader and the other one cares about the neighborhood. I don't call him much. It stopped because the Croatian people will open their eyes one day, I am not saying that I will sit behind this speaker, behind this chair, and that I will speak behind this pay phone, the eyes of the people will be opened, that you do not work in the interests of the people, not with your wish of a respected secretary, probably, you must listen, but with the wish of interested groups that have brought the Croatian state to its knees in the EU, so that the flag just stands there and not that the Croatian people are equal. We had to humiliate everything, we had to trample everything, on the values of the Homeland War, on the people who were key participants in the Homeland War, on the fisherman, on the farmer, on the exclusive economic belt we're not, now the teleopers of the building permit can't, we can't charge the right service, you know how much money this is about, about a lot of money. About billions. But you don't care. You're defending the government's opinion, you're aware that you're wrong. You're aware you're wrong. You humiliate the Croatian people, you humiliate this parliament. You've taken the right, now most of it has taken away the right of Parliament's representatives to speak. It has reduced the meaning of freedom of speech by taking away their right to pause, the right to replica, many measures are introduced only to not talk about this, only allow us at the end of the day or as the last item of the agenda. In the end, I would just send a message, the teleopers are in Croatia above the law, and I will fight to the end for teleopers in Croatia to behave like others in the countries of Europe. That's what I started with, and that's what I'm gonna end up with at least not sitting here and not being at this pay phone. I'm not afraid of their influence in the media, and you HDZ gentlemen are afraid, and you SDP gentlemen are afraid of the influence of the media because teleopers are the ones who pay them, advertise and fear them, and that's the only problem, you're afraid to stand behind the people because of the influence of the teleoper, because of Angela Merkel, because of influence and advocacy. I call you once again, protect the interests of the people, not just look at the PR and what their portals and their newspaper will write about you. They filled their pockets while our children chased out while they were moving out. They took everything from telecommunications to the port where we imported it, the gaženica where we invested 2 billion and 300, we gave it to the Turks for 30 million kuna for 20 years, so many two cafes worth in Zagreb. You betrayed everything you could betray just to get in touch with media advertisers, media and foreign teleopers. It's your only interest. I'll always have that flag over there before this one. Always. You had to arrest, locate, transfer, deliver all Croatian generals, 17 tolls when we entered the EU sent documents instead of 18 to The Hague. You mocked the saints. And now your coalition partner, Milorad Pupovac, I invite him to tell us where Dr. Pupovac is. Schreter? Not only does this thing that you steal from Croatia, but it sets up a jumbo poster where the Treasure of Zadar died. You've trampled all your values by trading these halls. And everything directed by Vladimir Seks, Budimir Lončar, is their generation that runs Croatia, this is their generation. The president of the state is from their incubator. Budimir Lončar is from their incubator, a very great friend with Kalmet is Budimir Lončar, and it all came from the same. They all run Croatia. Nothing's changed, it's the same system. When MOST said that the key problem was to show the archives to the public, to open up and the truth finally came out and that there was no more talk about it, you protected people and these people run Croatia. The President of the Parliament is from diplomacy, the President, the former prime minister, the current prime minister, and Miro Bulj is a coban, I am a choban, and I am not ashamed. But when I was 19, I went to be with other people and Andrej Plenkovic if it were Albania or Macedonia or Yugoslavia, he would be what he is now, he's under a glass bell and all those from the same incubator, Budimir Lončar, Vesna Pusic and these are all the same. And that people must know. And that's why you don't have the strength and courage to say that teleoperators in Croatia have to act like other EU countries and there's nothing there, that's logic, that's not even a question against teleoperators or what foreign teleoperators are, but it's a matter of logic. That's logic. If the whole of Europe and even from outside the EU should have building permits, gentlemen, then give me one reason why not a building permit. Why? Because you're afraid of the influence of a teleoper. Which is what you have to talk to them about. What is more important to you than Angela Merkel in Zagreb, she will say, of course, that she will praise you when she has the greatest gain in the Republic of Croatia, what does the Croatian people have of that? What does the Croatian people have to do with it? So you gave the INA to the Hungarians, you stuck the last nail in years, from the white nights on. Wherever you touched, the system fell apart. What are you going to leave to our children this way? So this is more than embarrassing if you do not accept this law and come to defend the opinion of this government, let Prime Minister Plenkovic come to defend, let him come, Lola defend, with your coalition partners who are not here and therefore once again thank the Living Wall, thank my colleagues from MOST, thank you and your chairman because you must be and it is not easy for you, thank you fellow Loncar for coming to you, no matter how much we disagreed and I tell everyone else that this will end and that the incubator who has set these figures up and who is pulling out of Yugoslavia, who has set up all these people, that one day and that will come to an end, not with that but simply not with them, whether Belgrade, any Budapest, any other city, is important to them in the service of the Croatian people and Croatian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141740	At your exhibition we have two replicas, the first colleague is Panenić and after him is a colleague of Lončar. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141741	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bulj, after this debate, I have listened very carefully to you as well as to those who support the proposal and those who are against this proposal but what I may, for the last time, explain to them all to clarify. So far, according to what you've represented, actually citizens, especially those close to those transmitters had no timely information that transmitters would be left behind. Everything may have been legal, but it wasn't clear to people that it was happening. Can citizens expect now if the government is against this that everyone where they are being placed will know exactly that the transmitter is being set up, in which vicinity they are, whether they should agree with it or not and that it is enough to make some mayor or mayor somewhere in the spatial plan, there will be a transmitter, no one knew it, and suddenly the transmitter appears as for example. in the dwellings of officials here in the Zagreb Guard. Did you know... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141742	Thank you, colleague Tomislav Panenić, thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull. ... Here you go. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You turn yourself off and you turn yourself on, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141743	Thank you very much. Under current legislation or law, construction and spatially arranged means it does not want to react to base stations that have been placed illegally. They don't want to, though, in the Radosic case or... In the case of Radosic, they basically called the police on us in 2014 to prove after 3 years that it was illegally placed and for a year and a half standing illegally, meaning for a year and a half, but this is after we wrote complaints and the owner of the nearest plot i.e. The houses die alive, they've been writing complaints for a year and they don't want to take it off, why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Wherever they think of it, they're putting base stations on cultural goods because they don't want to invest in infrastructure, hospitals, kindergartens, dimming into their minds, why? Because they don't want to invest because it just takes them two years to get a building permit, they need to invest here, they need to think about it, give someone 100 euros and set up a base station... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141744	Thank you. Comrade Loncar, here you go, your replica, this is the last replica on your exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141745	Thank you, Vice President. My dear fellow, I like you as much as I do a man like a man, I don't mind your opinion, nor do I wish at all... But something like a man begging you, please, please, I'm creeping out when you call me... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that will do damage to this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've never betrayed anyone in my life, I'm not a fascist, and now I'm here to publicly tell you, you and the entire Croatian public, my nationality... No one has the right to argue, and I want you not to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for Budimir Lonchar, and your colleagues, we have never in our lives, agreed and never physically seen each other in our lives. And he's right across the county, and I'm on second and we've never had the same worldview or we'll ever have him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141746	Thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141747	I don't know what you've taken personally, but the fact that Budimir Loncar is a dad to Bozidar Kalmeti, but you're in that current, simply, they're very tactfully divided into the left and right and they manage the system and you know that Budimir Lončar, Stipe Mesic, Calemta, that they're inseparable, that they go down, go down the finest dried prosciuttos and order it. And you are only a part of that system and you may not be aware that you have the influence of Budimir Lončar, through the Kalmet built by Gaženica, which is 2 billion kuna, essentially gave to the Turks in the middle of Croatia and that is pain. It is the needle in the heart of Croatia, the central Adriatic, the port in Zadar Gaženica that was needed, however, was given to Turks for 20, 30 million at 20 years it was a disaster. And the influence of Budimir Lončar, you must know that in Zadar it is great through Bozidar Kalmeta and you are a good associate of Bozidar Kalmeta, so you find yourself in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141748	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on the proposal for a law supplementing the Construction Act, first reading. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Attorney General's Office's report for children's work for 2018. Let me remind you that the amendment report is at 14.00 p.m. and your vote is at 6:00 p.m. I wish everyone a good night and that's it. Thank you very much for closing the session. Session adjourned at 7:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-08-0.u141749	Proposal for a Act supplementing the Construction Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 332. Proposer is Representative Miro Bulj. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Construction Act is not accepted, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 A.D. and 28 v., the conclusion is that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
