ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136243	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The issue of missing and violently taken persons in the Homeland War is undoubtedly the most pressing humanitarian issue in the Republic of Croatia. In the 28th year since the start of the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia, we still have 1903 unsolved cases from the Homeland War, with 1491 people missing while 412 requests to search for remains of the death victims. The Croatian Defence Ministry keeps, organises and maintains records of persons missing in the Homeland War. The records contain 436 persons with the status of Croatian defenders from whom he 391 disappeared and 45 dead Croatian defenders for whom the burial site is unknown. The remaining 1467 people do not have the status of Croatian defender. The main objective of all activities of the Ministry of Croatian Defence and other bodies involved in the search for missing persons is to solve all cases of persons missing in the Homeland War, but in the Republic of Croatia so far we have not had a single law governing the rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and their families to learn the fate of their missing members and the process of their search. And that is why we want to change that by this very legislative proposal. I stress that this legislative proposal does not prescribe material rights based on the disappearance of family members, but it is regulated by the Law on Croatian defenders and members of their families and the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War. The main areas governing this bill are the fundamental immaterial rights of missing persons and members of their families, all segments of the search for missing and mortally injured persons, the keeping of records of missing persons and of all exhumed and identified persons, the competent authorities for the implementation of the law and their demarcation, cooperation with other countries and international organisations and associations and infringement provisions. The proposal of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War provides for the immaterial persons missing in the Homeland War and their families to learn the fate of their members and the process of their search. Thus, the bill stipulates that it is the fundamental right of family members to enable them to learn about the fate of their missing members. It is also prescribed that the search for persons missing in the Homeland War and the remains of mortally injured persons is the obligations of the Republic of Croatia. It is also prescribed that August 30th is declared the day of memory of missing persons as mentioned in the sense of a special law governing those mentioned in the Republic of Croatia. With this legislative proposal, we want to provide an effective framework of work to contribute to the effectiveness of the search process. So far, the responsibilities and activities in the missing persons' search process have been prescribed by the government's internal establishment regulation of the Croatian Defence Ministry and by the decision to set up a commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for prisoners and missing persons. In addition, general rules apply, Penal Code, Criminal Procedure Act, Law on the Announcing of Missing Persons to Dies and Evidence of Death, Law on the System of State Administration, etc. The powers and activities are now prescribed by a single regulation of the legal force. The authorities responsible for the search for missing persons shall be designated and prescribed by their workaround. The bill provides that other central authorities of state administrations such as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, the SOA, the judicial bodies, units of local or regional self-government, scientific and medical institutions, the Croatian Red Cross, etc. shall take the activities of their jurisdiction in accordance with the regulation governing the establishment and the demarcation of the ministries and other central bodies of the state administration or the acts of organisations, institutions and other legal persons. They shall clearly and unequivocally determine competences of particular importance in relations with neighbouring countries. The bill stipulates that the Republic of Croatia through the competent authorities is the bearer of the missing persons' missing persons' activities in the Homeland War and the deadly victims of the Homeland War who are unknown to the place of burial. It is thus determined that persons who, at the time of the disappearance or death, had Croatian citizenship or registered residence or residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or were persons of foreign nationality who had the status of the Croatian Ombudsman from the Homeland War and who had no registered residence or residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia at the time of disappearance. And as this clear and unambiguous determination of competence has been highlighted, it is particularly important in relation to neighbouring countries. The legal arrangement of the rights of missing persons and their families to learn the fate of their missing members is recommended by both international mechanisms and numerous international legal instruments in the field of human rights. The proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War combines the organisation of all activities in the search for missing persons, from the reporting of disappearances, collection and exploration of knowledge of hidden tombs, exhumations and identifications, cooperation with international organisations, other countries and associations of families of persons missing in the Homeland War registered in the Republic of Croatia to the competent authorities for its implementation. It also regulates the implementation of those activities for which we have not had a foothold in the existing legal framework. The possibility of launching a request for official duty procedure in cases where there are no living family members, exhumation, processing and identification of postmortem remains in cases where there are no suspicions of forced death or the criminal proceedings have been completed, the re-exhumation of post-mortem remains in case of reasonable doubt in the reliability of identification, and for the first time, the provisions for bodies, organisations, institutions as well as natural persons who do not provide all available information, documentation and all necessary assistance to solve cases of persons missing in the Homeland War have been prescribed. I am teaching everyone here that the implementation of this law does not involve the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. In particular, I would like to stress that this legislative proposal, with representatives of all relevant authorities in the Republic of Croatia, was also attended by associations that gather families of missing persons, thus sending a strong message of patriotic responsibility through the commitment to finding victims. I expect the ladies and gentlemen of the parliaments to discuss constructive proposals so that we can further edit and amend this bill between the two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136244	I'd like to thank Minister Bear, so let's go to the replicas right now. There's 10 of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136245	Thank you very much, distinguished ministers on the Law of the Missing in the VelcoSerb Aggression we must remember that the Croatian state did not do everything and protected our missing and their families. It is regrettable that Serbia's lawyer, legal services, is not paid by the Croatian state but by a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The only thing left for us as a tool to stop this, this poor example, too much to say, is that the only thing to stop Serbia from entering the EU is that we have until the moment they deliver every missing, list and until they pay us war damage. It's our obligation to the missing. Ministers This Croatian Government Must Work No law will help the missing until we protect our interests. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136246	Answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136247	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for the issue of Serbia's commitments in Chapters 23 and 24, there is a clear commitment and it is about meeting exactly one of these objectives, which is full cooperation and contribution to finding missing persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136248	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136249	Dear Ministers with associates, therefore we are not working here to ask Serbia to tell us where our people have disappeared, but to block them because they have been blocked for almost 30 years since our first defenders and civilians disappeared in the war wind did nothing to tell us where they went, but actually hitched off the process. So here I demand of you as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government that an emergency block of Serbia's accession negotiations with the EU be made, because only with the blockade of Serbia can we find out where our missing people are, and all the rest is I will be honest, rotten granla. So, blocking Serbia in negotiations or we'll never know where our people are gone without talking about war damage or recognition of even aggression in Croatia, it's just one thing that's far, far after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136250	Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136251	Dear Mr. Representative, as in this first issue, it is very clear what conditions Serbia must meet in order to close Chapters 23 and 24, and I stress that one of these issues is just full cooperation and a contribution to finding missing persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136252	The third replica is a colleague of the Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136253	I thank you, Mr. Minister, this is a serious law, but I think that you approach it only unilaterally and persistently on our questions as to how we are going to ask ourselves to Serbia, which really has no intention of abolishing the laws, which can continue to process our people, you do not think it is in your jurisdiction. I would like to know, in your jurisdiction is the Croatian Defence Act, according to which children of 100% of the military disabled, who are no longer many, volunteers of the Homeland War and children of the dead, have the right to a job in Croatia, if they have the same conditions? You know, in the Krka National Park case, the lady is a volunteer, a doctorate of science, with the hours of ad in that national park, she had your recommendation, too, unfortunately, someone estimated that someone else would show more enthusiasm. Are you able to ensure that the laws passed by your ministry are implemented and the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136254	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136255	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. The first part of your question, relating to Serbia's condition, is therefore very clear and unequivocal, as a condition of closing the chapter, the issue is mentioned. As regards the rights of the family members' employment championship, the dead and dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disabled, it is very clear in the law on equal terms who has the advantage. The Croatian Defence Ministry is very active, following all requests and tenders, giving recommendations to those who meet these conditions. Since the election, if there is a harsh violation of the legal provisions, then the Croatian Defence Ministry shall refer to the competent authorities, i.e. competent inspections, if there has been a severe violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136256	Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136257	Thank you, Your Honor. Minister, you're talking about, we're going to condition something on Serbia, and the fact is that this government is violating its valid decision. In fact, on several occasions here in the Croatian Parliament, I said that Minister Pejcinović Buric, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, with the patronage of Prime Minister Plenkovic, has not called up to this day as many as 7 mandatory meetings of the commission he is chairing, which has successfully sabotaged the implementation of systematic supervision of the Republic of Serbia in the area involving the commitment, means that information on missing persons is being provided. That's Chapter 23. I don't know how to explain this multi-year tenacity which you and you give the legitimacy of your participation in power, whether it has anything to do with HDZ partner relations, Vucic's party in Europe, or maybe this partnership here in Croatia with the SDSS, I don't know. But you're also giving it legitimacy. [[Intruder President: Thank you, thank you, fellow Grumoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136258	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136259	Mr. Representative, this issue and the monitoring of Serbia's behaviour are in jurisdiction, primarily the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and after that all other ministries of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are regularly and through government bodies and through meetings in the Government, analyses the progress of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the fulfillment or failure of those commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136260	5th is up, Comrade Liposchack. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136261	I thank the President, Your Honor, for welcoming this proposal of the law on persons missing in the Homeland War, and it is sad that today we are still looking for almost 2,000 missing people. It's also a fact that for 20 years we've been waiting for a bill like this, it's something that we have to imagine, and that's why I thank you both personally ministers and your ministry that you've just decided to make this move, and I hope that this will help preserve the dignity of not only missing persons, but primarily their families. And of course, it's never too late for something like this, and I hope that we'll do the same for those who have been waiting for a move like this for more than 70 years, and I'm thinking about the victims of 2nd St. war, victims of Porac, in particular, various crossroads, caves and similar ones, which unfortunately are still too little or insufficient to talk about in our public and media space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136262	Thank you. No need, no answer, so it's time for fellow Glasnović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136263	Dear Ministers, associates, I am not interested in the status of Croatian soldiers, who are injured in military exercises, we have one member, whom explosive devices, lost both hands, blinded, leg, where he is led, like this injury at work,... The means could he, he needed care 24 hours a day and had other holes in the law, e.g. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] died after Dayton, who... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] died and have their relatives, very little income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe you should take a look at that. And my colleague what he said about the 2nd World War, we walk on Croatian costumes, you workers with limited resources, I know it's not up to you, but who's stopping this further investigation of these mass graves? ... Yesterday mentioned, this Sucic brigade, the Germans have identified 4 million of their victims, they have 2 war cemeterys here in Croatia, and we are still where we are in the '90s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136264	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136265	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, regarding the issue of active military personnel, i.e. members of the armed forces, who were killed during the performance of their tasks under the Ministry of Defence system, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, we will analyse this problem, and we will find a solution very quickly, and in what way, to care and ensure adequate and quality care for these persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136266	Now it's my colleague Kirin's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136267	Dear President, Mr. Minister with Associates, the question of missing and violently taken into the Homeland War, must be the most powerful and humanitarian issue in Croatia, but Serbia plays a big role there. Do you think Serbia's lack of co-operation, related to past events when many Croats in fojbas, caves, cemeterys across the country, and no one, nor family, had to ask questions, but they had to hide the connection with the unhappy. If Serbia wants to join the EU, let it start cooperating and behave civilizedly, so the Slovenians have obstructed a few kilos of fish and several metres of sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136268	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136269	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. As regards the issue of Serbia's contribution to finding missing persons, we cannot be satisfied with our legal powers, and we must stress that, within the framework of the Croatian Defence Ministry, under the chairmanship of the assistant ministers, the government's commission to find missing persons is also acting, continuously and intensively, and we are looking for full cooperation. Unfortunately, we must conclude that today this cooperation is still not what we expect and we cannot be satisfied with their contribution to the process so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136270	Now it's time for fellow Djakic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136271	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, here's to your presentation of the law that's before us, you've made it clear what the law's objective is to find all of us missing persons. Since we are aware that their key solution is in our neighbouring Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, I believe that what is being asked today is co-operation between the two countries but also their European pathway. It clearly defined the ministry as early as 2016, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the 7th month. 5 key provisions and criteria that the European Commission has confirmed and accepted and in the first place are missing persons and then the damage caused and the compensation of those who have suffered, I believe that by monitoring the report on the achievements of the Republic of Serbia, we can conclude whether there is a shift or no shift in their progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136272	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136273	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Of course, as we have already referred to this issue earlier, so the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as well as all other ministries in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ultimately all bodies in the Republic of Croatia, in the framework of our competences, we follow their actions, or their contribution or compliance with the conditions imposed. As regards this issue and the contribution to the process of missing persons, we must conclude that this cooperation has so far been lagging behind and that they are currently not meeting these conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136274	Now it's time for your pal, Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136275	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm curious, you mentioned this number of 1900 missing, is this a figure that represents only missing persons on the Croatian side, or are they included in that figure and disappeared from the enemy side, means also Croatian citizens or people who have a residence here who have died on, say, the aggressor side? So I'm curious about exactly what this figure refers to, or should they still increase then and for those people who participated in the aggression in Croatia? So I'm curious whether this figure is complete for the Republic of Croatia or whether it applies only to Croatian defenders? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136276	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136277	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Therefore, very clearly in the law is stated the authority of the Republic of Croatia in the process of seeking the missing persons of all its citizens. We're here and in my opening work I've analyzed so that it's 1491 people who are missing, that there are 412 remains of the people we know have died but we don't know where their remains are. So we're talking about all the people, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are missing or for people we don't know where their remains are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136278	And the last replica, dear fellow Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136279	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you have said exactly what conditions Serbia must meet that are defined in the chapters, which are open during the government of Tihomir Oreskovic, with the support of the then ruling majority and Serbia must now meet these conditions. The second question that is certain today, already opened about will continue to be whether we are talking about the missing Croatian or Serbian nationality, of course that is not the question, that is where we should look at the man, so solve the fate of all the missing but where the political problem is the real problem, and that is that Belgrade did not give the information where the mass graves are. The problem is there and there is this, so this information Belgrade has, military, intelligence structures have, and they don't want to give it exactly for the reason that it is finally confirmed and proven by large-scale Serbian aggression, there is a political problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136280	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136281	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We will therefore repeat that this law regulates the competences of all authorities in the Republic of Croatia and conduct in the process of finding all missing persons of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and its jurisdiction in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And certainly continuing our search, continuously towards Serbia in order to deliver appropriate, serious and precise indicators of where the mass graves of missing persons are located.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136282	Thank you. Now let's see if the committee's reporters want to take a word for it. Yes, colleague Djakic, chairman of the Committee on War Veterans, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136283	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At its 15th session held on 3 April 2019, the Council of War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 21 March 2019. The Committee held the debate in the capacity of the home working body in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 91. The Rules of Procedure of HS. According to the proposing representatives, this law regulates the immaterial rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and their families and the process of seeking out such and deadly victims for whom the burial site is unknown. Currently, the Republic of Croatia is looking for 1903 persons, of which 1491 are missing, and 412 are being reported as mortally injured for which no place of burial is known. There is no single law in the Republic of Croatia that regulates these problems. The legal framework in this matter is the Geneva Convention for the Protection of Victims of War, their supplementary protocols and laws and other acts of the Republic of Croatia. This law will protect the fundamental rights of missing persons and their families and contribute to the preservation of the dignity of persons missing in the Homeland War and their families. All activities in the process of seeking missing and deadly victims in the Homeland War, for which no place of burial is known, records, knowledge collection, exhumation, identification, burial, care and all others require cooperation and interdisciplinary access by all competent authorities and are regulated by this law. In countries resulting from the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, this issue has been regulated by special laws. Since this law does not prescribe material rights, financial additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia will not be necessary to implement it. However, the members of the committee in the debate made the following comments on the draft law. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4 should be added to point 10, which would read, the ministry is the central body of the state administration responsible for Croatian In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 12. Behind the word of the Homeland In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 15. Behind the words of burial, word, suffering and execution should be added, and item 2 should be prescribed in Art. 15. that would read, any natural person providing credible information or documentation on the sites of mass or individual tombs will be rewarded under the Croatian Defence Ministry Regulation. It has been requested that the Committee be supplied with the structure of missing persons, i.e. how many Croatian defenders, civilians and members of the enemy army. It is positive that this bill has finally come into practice, but it has also been defeated that it has been more than 20 years to present it. It is expressed interest, given this law, to regulate the question of the missing from the Homeland War, whether it is a similar bill that would prescribe the missing persons' search procedure from II. Holy shit. War and porn. The Commission's work on monitoring the implementation of the criteria in the negotiating chapters 23 and 24 on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, which should monitor whether the Republic of Serbia participates in the discovery of fate, the identification of missing persons and has been requested by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to submit a report to the Committee on the results achieved so far and to meet the specific conditions and criteria for the Republic of Croatia in Chapters 23 and 24. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously, with 9 votes to propose to HS the following conclusions. The proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War is hereby adopted, under 2nd all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. The committee also unanimously, with nine votes in favour, reached the next conclusion. It undertakes the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to submit to the Committee on War Veterans a report to the Commission on the monitoring of the implementation of the criteria in the negotiating chapters 23 and 24 on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, with an emphasis on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the identification and detection of the fate of missing persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136284	Thank you. Just one more notice. So there's a large number of applications for this law, so after it, after we've finished discussing this law, we'll go to the Interpletion. If it's sooner, if we finish before 3:00, the impellation will be at 3:00 if this lasts after three, right after the end, we'll start with the Interpelation, and point three. The 2 we planned will be after the Interpellation. So, this is the proposal for a law implementing the delegation of the Commission Regulation... etc., etc. So, after this point goes Interpol, if we finish before 3, the impellation is in 3, and if it's going to last longer than 3, right after this point the Interpeltion begins. I'm opening a debate now. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, two MPs, Bulj and Strenja, the first is the Honored counterpart Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136285	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with their assistants. We're talking about very emotional things, things that concern families who are missing in large-serb aggression. Minister, I hope that you will accept certain remarks and that we will send a message that the negligence and reluctance of the Croatian state institutions has been 30 years since the start of the Homeland War, that there are still a large number of missing and their families, that their families do not know about them. First of all, I would suggest, since you don't mention in the law no great Serb aggression, but the law is called the Law of the Missing in the Homeland War, that this law is called the Law of the Missing in Greater Serbian Aggression, because it is the consequence of everything being a major Serbian Chetnic aggression. We must make that clear. In any article, you do not mention large-serb aggression, not even in your speech here, you did not say big-serb aggression but aggression. I think it's because of the truth that it's a big-serb, Chetnic aggression against the Republic of Croatia and that these victims are the result of this aggression. So here's if you can appreciate it until the second reading, because that's significant. I know that link, i.e. these governments, i.e. in co-operation in the European regiment, up in the European Parliament in the same party with Vukic, who was also one of the key people, who advocated here, mutilated the Serbs, and this is Chetnik Vukic, whom we had placed the red wallpaper here, from whom we expected to bring what fellow Stier was saying when he was called by the President of the Republic. I didn't, of course, because it wasn't his interest. I hope that we will change the title for the future and for all the victims, regardless of which side, the cause is large-serb, Chetnic aggression. We humiliated those victims further, opening up negotiating chapters 23, 24. The 23rd judiciary and freedom, justice and security of Serbia's EU accession. They didn't do anything they needed to do. Croatia must have the only tool, which the Republic of Croatia has, is a tool to stop and block Serbia by entering the EU, until it meets everyone, missing, has it in Belgrade, that Vucic has, every missing list where they are and exactly where they are. Until they do, and until they pay for the war damage of the Republic of Croatia, it's minimum according to the victims that were in the Homeland War. I repeat again from all sides. The government, in my opinion, humiliated the Croatian victims of Serbian aggression. So far, none of the Croatian victims or Serbian camps have paid compensation. And an example of how many states, respected ministers, fellow MPs, how many states have humiliated all these people, to e.g. In Slavonic villages, slaughter, Lovasa, Sotina, families, which you... driving in Belgrade, that a Serbian citizen must pay for legal services, not the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's a sad fact. That's how much the state has trampled these people and these families. That a Serbian citizen is paying for the processes in Belgrade for our missing persons. It is a terrible fact that the Republic of Croatia has a total of 1903 unsolved cases after 28 years of the humiliation of the victims that the Croatian government is doing, although it has done nothing for the people who gave their lives, who gave their lives for this country. And even, even the gathering of testimony from all the campers is not organized. The justice ministry has confirmed that Serbia is not cooperating with the achievement of chapters 23, 24, but the dead clans have turned their heads on the other side. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic officially admitted on Croatian television that Serbia is obstructing the trial of Serbian perpetrators, war crimes against Croatian victims. He says in meetings, Serbia attacks Croatia and does not deliver documents. The foreign ministry is a special story. It was particularly pointed out, they care so much about Croatian victims, that neither the commission in charge of this important topic met for 2.5 years. This commission is required, each year and at least once to inform the President of the Republic in writing. I asked the Office of the President of the Republic in writing, and I was told that no report had been delivered, and that was the obligation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What does Minister Pejcinović Buric do? It sits on two chairs, a little pretends that the commission will do something about it, and in fact it does great harm to the national interests of the Republic of Croatia, and in this way it looks like it is more protecting Serbia's interests, and we know it has advised a small style when Serbia enters the EU. This is what we have pointed to, these facts and I will repeat again, Croatia must block Serbia, it is the only tool in EU accession. It's gotta be a decision. Enough of the red wallpaper spread, the mockery of the Chetnik Vukic in Croatia when he was, he did not apologize for the victims, he did not apologize for the bullying of people of Serbian nationality. And I think that's the only way we can stop it. Minister, I know you have a good will, but your co-operation and coalitions don't have to oblige you not to mention the great Serb Chetnic aggression, nor the cooperation in the European Parliament, either... With Vucic's party, there doesn't have to be a brake of truth and protection about the Homeland War, you're one of the Croatian defenders, one of the prominent commanders, and I believe that we'll all finally do everything together, to stop Serbia, force her to finally deliver the missing documents and pay for the war damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136286	Comrade Sagittarius, here's your follow-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136287	I would like to thank the chairman, the representatives of the ministry, in principle, with the minister. If he had a grave, I'd come and light a candle and talk to him, and I'd tell him, my son, wait, I can't live with you in heaven. This is just one of the titles of thousands of books and articles that actually describe which despair continues to feel the families of the missing in the Homeland War. And from here I welcome them once again, and I welcome all the families of the missing who must have been eager to wait for one law to finally put some things in and explain and mutilate, but unfortunately we didn't get it through this law. First of all, you called the Law on Missing Persons in the Homeland War, I think you should have had the courage to write that they disappeared in the great-Serb aggression of both, I'm talking about the missing. One MP threw it to me at one point and told me where we were, and I said I'm always talking about everyone, because the victim is a victim. In the Homeland War that resulted from large-scale Serbian aggression, it is still wanted for 1903 people. Therefore, the aggression of the Serbian aggression against the Republic of Serbia has also caused uncertainty about the fate of 18,000 prisoners, missing and violently taken by Croatian defenders and civilians. The RH was still in '91. In accordance with the provisions of international humanitarian law, notably the Geneva Conventions for the Protection of Victims of the War of '49. and the 1977 supplementary protocols established institutional mechanisms to address the issue. To date, however, the fate of more than 80% of missing persons has been resolved, although the fate of 1,903 is still unknown, or the place of burial of the remains of 422 people killed and the fate of 1,571 is unknown. So, before us is the law on persons missing in the Homeland War, which is the result of large-serb aggression in which a special emphasis is placed on those whose place of burial is unknown. This should have been a unique legal framework in which the concepts, procedures, rules and rights should have been defined in one place, resulting from 28 years of long search for missing persons from the last war, who have been distributed according to various regulations. Families have the right to know what happened to their loved ones. Wartime events in the region of Croatia since 1995, 1991 '95. It has caused the disappearance of thousands of people, and their families and loved ones to be uncertain and their initial hope that their loved ones are alive. Unfortunately, over time, hope went out while fear and suffering were taking over, taking over, and growing in their hearts. So they're our heroes and we have a moral debt to them. Find them and bury them with dignity. In accordance with the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons From Forced Extinction, the Law should provide that all missing persons should be treated as victims of a criminal offence and, accordingly, guarantee their rights and, in particular, the right to information on the stage of the criminal proceedings and the process of seeking remains. And once again, I would like to emphasise the primary position Croatia should have taken towards Serbia, which we are asking for data. These data and records and have and one of the basic conditions therefore should be full cooperation in finding missing persons or locations of mass graves on which they have data. Unfortunately, for example, the remarks made by the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice on that hot summer of 2016 still standing on the pages of the Ministry of Justice, you can find them, did not respect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, it is expected, we expect some kind of cooperation with your colleague from the European People's Party, but we have never seen it before. Therefore, it is still clear that Serbia is reluctant to abolish the disputed provisions of the Universal Jurisdiction Quasi Act, resulting in the RS interpreting in a different way, compared to Serbia, the EU Common Position on Chapter 23, which is not intended to repeal the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. So our relationship with Serbia should have been clear. First, full truth and information on the location of mass graves, where ours have disappeared, and then the discussion of their accession to the EU. So, despite the promises that all the issues of Croatian defenders and members of their families will be resolved in a unique, comprehensive and comprehensive way, the Law on Croatian Defences shows that this proposal that you are now putting in place has not been fulfilled, and now we are trying in some way only to bring it into this assembly. The assessment of the situation as well as the reasons for the adoption of this law cites the current legal framework of the Republic of Croatia and international binding regulations, including those which have not yet been ratified, and is incorporated into this legal act, which is unusual. So, it's about the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from the forced disappearance that we just signed. What's new with the work so far on exhumed and identified or missing persons, except for a few details, is nothing else. And so far, the Law on the Announcing of Missing Persons has been applied to the Dead and Evidence of Death and the Law on Criminal Procedure. So far, all of the above bodies have been involved in the process of seeking exhumation and identification. The area that covers the missing and remains the same, so it's still the same and there's no newspaper. And it's good that Croatia takes responsibility for the missing, but I have to ask here again what you've done for campers, living people, but you leave them to the impasses of the judiciary. So, this is another dispersive law that segmentally addresses one of the issues raised by large-serb aggression. The members of the family of the missing Croatian defenders receive family pension benefits, disability in accordance with the Law on Croatian Defences, while the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War applies to civilian missing persons. However, there is no clear link between those rules that will further create difficulties implementing, in particular, compensation law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136288	We're going to Club Two, it's the Labour Party Representatives' Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club, dear colleague Rechimer Varda, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136289	President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers of colleagues and colleagues. I understand or try to understand colleagues and colleagues from the past debate of replicas, however, this is about a specific law, which can only apply to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We can't even pass laws that would apply to other countries. Other countries are covered by international declarations, conventions, etc. so that the Republic of Serbia will, I believe, and I believe already on this, work and work, relations with other countries, especially the Republic of Serbia, solve in accordance with these conventions and decisions made both by this Parliament and the Government regarding the problem of the missing in the Homeland War, and that, in that sense, there will also be a position of the Republic of Croatia, to the end, consistently related to Chapters 23 and 24. So this is all about a law that we're trying to solve what's really fundamental, which is the human rights of missing persons and their families, to learn the fate of their missing members, and the commitment of the state to solving cases of forced disappearance. I would quote here, even though I'm not used to convincing myself the text of the bill, 2. Persons missing in the Homeland War and killed dead in the Homeland War, unknown to the burial site, and members of their families within the meaning of this law, have equal rights, without any distinction to whether they were members of the armed forces or civilians, according to race, sex, language, religion, political opinion, national or social origin, property status or any other personal status. I think that, dear Minister, this Article 2 is what we actually said, what we should have said, which is why law-making is the purpose of missing persons in the Homeland War. The legal framework for the adoption of this law, I am sorry that this law did not come before the debate at the Croatian Parliament, but well, it is never too late. The legal framework in this area consists of the Geneva Convention for the Protection of Victims of War and their Additional Protocols, which the Republic of Croatia ratified in 1991 and other major instruments dealing with or related to the issue of missing, general declaration of human rights, conventions, etc. etc. However, what I would like to point out, and what you have stated in the explanation, the assessment of the situation, the draft law, you see, in countries that have been decomposed by the former Yugoslavia in respect of which the Republic of Slovenia has an open question of missing persons, this is a matter regulated by law, so in 2004, the BiH itself states that it passed a law on missing persons, which specifically regulates the question of missing persons in the period of '91-1996. As a matter of missing persons in the Republic of Serbia since '91-'96. The 2012 Migration Management Act is now missing this legal framework, which we are filling out with this bill. So it's about the area, the human rights, the missing persons and their families, and in that sense, if you let me, I would like to appeal to the debate on this law, to take care of the dignity of the families of the dead defenders, or, and the missing, missing persons in the Homeland War and the drinking to the victims themselves. What I would like to warn you, Your Honor, is that you are referring to the Law on the Declaration of Missing Persons, the Dead and the Prosperity of Death in an article, that law was passed in '74. That law should be amended. I'm not saying you're in charge of this, but let's say here, in art. 2. At least here in this law it's about immaterial rights. In this law on the declaration of missing persons, it's about property legal interests, but the public defender is mentioned, we don't have it anymore. So make a proposal to the competent Justice Department to give the motion to amend and supplement that law, when you are already referring to the law. And the second thing I'd like to warn you about, it's a violation provision, you've got it in art. 53rd item 1 with a fine of 10000-300000 kuna, that's a huge difference. I think we should think about it here, because you're giving too much discretion, to someone who judges this offense. It's a huge range, and it seems to me that it's precisely because of the importance of solving the problem of the missing, we need to reduce that range, that this punishment must be really significant. Ten thousand kn, excuse the expression, but I find it ridiculous. I think it's funny what we really want to achieve. In all, however, I am usually a short club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives will accept this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136290	Thank you. Before the 3rd debate, I would just like to ask you all to welcome together students and students of the School of Economics and Trade from Čakovec. Welcome. ... Now it is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136291	Thank you, Chairman. Today we are talking about a proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War. Before I go to the law itself and what you wrote here, I'll just look back on what's been said about the information, that Vucic has them, that they are in Serbia, absolutely, but I think it's crazy to expect Serbian President Vukic to give you that information. He may be shown outside as some kind of European, pro-European politician and everything else, but in his heart there is still that Milosevic school, so that in the old folk wolf he changes his hair, but never, I don't think we can expect him to make one such move, but we need to find other ways. I don't think it's good that after one 25 years, two and a half decades after the war, we still have so many missing persons. I'm going to look back at one segment of what didn't work and suggest how it could work. You're talking in chapter two here. The assessment of the situation, at station 2 here are listed organisations that participate, says, interdisciplinary approach and co-operation of all competent authorities, and then you list the Ministry of Defence, and his Department of Detained and Missing, so the MUP, and the MORH, and foreign affairs and justice, health care, the administration's offices in the county and ultimately the Red Cross, etc. Finally, below that, all the activities in the search process were coordinated by the Ministry of Croatian Defence, i.e. the Department of Detained and Missing, whose work is part of the work prescribed by the Internal Design Regulations of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Now I'm going to show you on one example that it's not exactly like that. It's a matter of particularity, if there are prizes for missing persons' information. Since the law stipulates that the prizes are available for missing persons, not only for those from... but generally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we contacted, among other things, your ministry to ask how things are with that. You said you didn't have that information. I see no Minister, so the Croatian Defence Ministry does not have any information on how many prizes and to whom they give are not called. You obviously don't work well with either the MUP or all the other institutions because you don't have information, and you should be a roof institution who should know everything about all the processes, because that's how it ends up writing. All activities, all activities in the search process, are coordinated by the Ministry of Defence. It's obvious they didn't. Now I'm just going to read one reply to the MUP, so besides you, we've also spoken to the MUP. And it shows that I'm the foundation of an art. 78 The Law on Police Business and Powers, the police are authorized to publically announce the award for the day of notice for the detection and arrest of a person who committed a serious crime or an act that particularly upset the public, beware now, point, the finding of a missing person and other justified cases that have informed citizens of the need to achieve police affairs. The award can be made by means or by other means, where the person who has given the notice for which the prize has been called upon if the police already have that information, which is, of course, logical. Next, in accordance with Article. 116. The rules on how police officers act, says, the amount of the prize differs from the content of the notice given, which is also logical, if the information is more valuable, then it is more, otherwise less valuable, if so, where the amount of the notice that led to the finding of the missing person is up to 40,000 kuna net. The decision to call the prize is made by the minister of the MUP on a proposal from the chief police director. You obviously didn't know anything about it or didn't want to say anything about it. You don't know what he's doing or isn't doing to the M.O.P., whether he's making a call or not, he's not, whether he's going to, which is why I'm sending a representative question to the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Bozinović, so I'm asking him. In which cases there was a reward for finding the missing defenders and civilians from the Homeland War, how many applicants were rewarded, how many reported, what funds were, who were those who were rewarded, etc., I ask him chronologically all information from 91 to today, or from when the law was valid. Apparently, the D.A. doesn't know anything or won't say anything about it either. Furthermore, police answer, resolving the fate of missing Croatian defenders and citizens from the Homeland War is a strategic priority of the MUP. At least in principle, we see that in practice it's not like that. And any information that leads to the discovery of the same, or their remains, is valuable and will be considered with maximum seriousness. It is also important to note that such a content notice may be the subject of the award calling in accordance with the positive legislation of the Republic of Croatia, as previously stated. So the police themselves confirm that it could be the subject of a reward call, so coming up with information about missing defenders and civilians in the Homeland War. But the D.A. doesn't have any information about that. And finally, this time at the MUP invites you to, if you have information that would significantly contribute to the resolution of the fate of the missing people of the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War, to contact the Police Directorate with full confidence in whose jurisdiction it is criminal research or the detection and prosecution of crimes and war crimes and their perpetrators and the resolution of the fate of missing persons during the Homeland War. We often have on televisions and in media such as movies, animations, etc., here's the last thing about pension reform again, that not everyone will be working until 67th, I don't know what, however, some kind of public call, some serious provision to know that it can be rewarded for giving information, I've never heard of it, or I've never heard of it, obviously neither did the ministry worry too much about this tool, coming to information, for information that it's precious, absolutely precious, but obviously it's not valuable enough for us to talk about it any more, to advertise it. So I invite you to release information on all the bells, along with the police and other bodies, that whoever gives the information will get some sort of equivalent. No money can compensate for information that someone finds their missing brother, sister, mother, father but who has disappeared or died in the Homeland War so as not to know where he is. Come on, let the Croatian public know it exists. You don't seem to know it exists either. Here I am waiting for the M.O.P. to give me the answers that activities have been undertaken by this, because there is a legal basis. I hope they don't tell me they've never done it, I hope at least some part of that tool has been used. Here's if, I say again, it's impossible to expect Wolf and such a team to say anything, it's almost impossible. However, there must be those who have information and need to get that information, and at all costs I will say so. Every year that goes on, it's gonna be harder and harder to get information because there's less and less living witnesses, and there's less evidence and more. So much for the awards, stress it in the law I ask you for the interest of Croatian citizens. I would just like to mention one criticism that I heard from people, children, above all Croatian defenders who were missing in the Homeland War who tried to reach them, the ministry couldn't help them very much, so they did their own research, investigations, etc., some managed to get to the remains, to the location, but some of them said they had come, even encountered obstructions at the ministry. I don't want to believe that it is, and why, because when the Ministry gave them that information, then there would be an opportunity to ask the question, so what was that man doing in that place at that time, where he was found dead, and then a series of questions would open up, so maybe he was forced or maybe he was in some context where he didn't know he was being smuggled or in a context where he was selling oil to the enemy or stuff like that. Here I hope that there are no obstructions, that no matter what happens, we must come to the truth and people who have disappeared from the family that have to get information at all costs that they must not be kept secret and that not only, not only or not, but in any case not to do any obstructions or such a situation that is not known about the prize is there, no, but it needs to be seriously approached, much more serious than it is now. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136292	Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136293	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Croatian Defence Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I have reported three things. First, I would like to present some facts on the situation of the number of missing during the wars in the former Yugoslavia and especially the war in Croatia. So, according to the February International Red Cross, the total number of missing reported to the International Red Cross was 34,999 of which RH 6,511. Of those 6,511, 4,4995 cases were closed, so almost 70% corresponding to the overall percentage of closed cases in the former Yugoslavia, so including BiH, with the largest number of reported missing and Kosovo reported. Of these 4.495, 2,882 people were either found dead, identified and handed over to their families. What's interesting is when I talk about RH 1.597 people are fortunately found alive, a very high percentage slightly less than 30%, according to the International Red Cross. So, what's left of us, according to the International Red Cross data, which, by some number, differs from the data presented by Minister Medved here and standing in the bill of law, so we're left with open cases of 2,016. Of these 2,016 cases, 395 are cases that are known to have died but are not known to be the site of death and no remains are available, for other persons there is no confirmation that they have died, nor is their location known. So, in front of us, we have a job well done, whoever did it and with whatever help it is. It's a result that hasn't been recorded in wars up to this in international contexts, such a high percentage of missing persons. But what's left is worth every attention, every one of us, anyone who has the opportunity to contribute, not to interfere and not to stand for any reason as an obstacle on the road. Since there are three approaches to this missing persons issue. First and fundamental as defined by international laws when Wednesday's search for the missing, finding them, identifying them and burying them is a humanitarian dimension. And this humanitarian dimension is in the focus of all international acts, including those that occurred during the time of last year, during the Berlin Process at meetings in London and at some meetings held at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, whether or not it is, Mr Sucic will correct me, about Podgorica and about Sarajevo, Zagreb and various places where meetings of representatives of the authorities of the former Yugoslavia's countries have been held in the areas of war, where the search for the missing is being conducted. What I'd just like to say is, I'm saying all of this because sometimes in our public it gets the impression that nothing has been done in terms of the missing, and it's been done a lot. And I will repeat once again, all those who have contributed to this should be considered to be people who are for the sake of peace, for the sake of the best feelings of families who seek their missing, societies who seek their missing, armies who seek their warmates who have disappeared, families who seek out civilians, that is for every praise. It's not for indifference, it's not for distrust as we could hear in these people, but there's a need to increase that figure. These 400 and something or 395 depending on who, whose and what data we are looking at, are therefore known to have been killed that they should be dead as soon as possible and as easily as possible to get to the place where they were killed and especially where they were killed, if that's different from where their remains are. That too should be given adequate attention. If we commit ourselves to this from a humanitarian aspect, we'll make it easier to search. The second aspect that is important for finding the missing is uninterrupted memorial practice. And it needs families, it needs units that belonged to people if they were military faces, it needs countries that remember their soldiers, have their victims as autonomous rights and unhindered to remember their deaths. And it's unquestionable, it's not something that's necessarily covered by this law, but it's something that's in tradition, the best tradition of countries. Now the third moment that burdens the whole story, which part of the tones could be heard and in today's debate, is the political dimension that, whether or not I wanted to, necessarily intertwined with humanitarian and commemorative. But if they stand out too much and she's the first one in focus then it becomes a problem, then it becomes an obstacle. And if we create assumptions that we're dealing with political issues somewhere else, on some other aspects that deserve it, then it'll certainly create assumptions that the remaining number is smaller than it is now. I'm going to say something about perception now. Here one of his colleagues asked if they covered all the missing in the Republic of Croatia in the figures presented by the minister, they did not. They could not even be covered by this criterion because there were people who under war circumstances did not regulate their citizenship or lived in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as citizens of some other republic they had a residence, they had a family, they had children, there are many of them, not much more than others, but that is something that is the weakness of this bill. Therefore, it cannot only refer to citizens he must also refer to those who are not citizens or who at that time could not regulate their civic status. This is not only true for Croatia, it is also true for BiH, and in BiH we will find people who were not citizens of BiH, who were killed there, disappeared in a war wind, either as soldiers, or as civilians. And that's why international bodies insist that we exchange data, that we have a common database. Because these people we're looking for may not be in our area, but they're in another country for one reason or another, either because the war storm took them there, or because there was a transfer, we all know that within countries and between countries. We hope that such an important thing has not been in the relationship that dominates today, which is the issue of relations between Croatia and Serbia, and this is a topic which, as far as I know, the Ministry of Defence and other competent institutions are seriously committed. And while some here are calling the SDSS Club and the SDDS Club is committed to it, we're not talking about it publicly. And what I just said is all I want to say about it and everything I can say about it, because we care that this question is closed to as large a number as possible. I would like to say, in these figures that are being presented, except for the fact that as far as it's been made, rarely when the victims of Serbian nationality are mentioned, are missing Serbian nationality. And there are almost 50% of these 1900s or these 2016s. That's how it's left. There weren't so many at first, but that's how it was done. And this law should be taken into account, so that no one is discriminated against, regardless of nationality, regardless of ethicality, as his Article 3 states. In both public notices and in public advertising about it, I was moved by some of the experiences, which I heard from the authorities and their first encounters of that kind, given the communication that we have been leading in recent weeks and months, when they were killed and gone. It creates and further strengthens the moral feeling that the missing have no ethnicity, that the deceased have no ethnicity and that for me, as a representative of the Serbs, the missing Croats, the dead Croats are equally relevant and equally... Mandatory as missing Serbs and killed Serbs, we just need to create such an atmosphere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the agreements reached at the highest level and the bodies formed at the level of the presidents of Croatia and Serbia, regardless of what the government has done and what the government has done so far, although all we know, the possibilities to achieve and create are much greater than what it seems to know right now, we just need to make assumptions about it. As far as the law itself is concerned, the part that defines missing persons should certainly be, in order for us to be able to support it should be extended to cover not only citizens, but also those who were not citizens at that time or who did not regulate Croatian citizenship, but who lived in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or who, in war circumstances, found themselves in the area of the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, it seems very important to me that the data, which exists between the differences that exist in terms of the number between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, are trying to agree, that the method of recording is also trying to agree. These are the two key things that I managed to take into account in my conversations as a problem. The same goes for art. Paragraph 2 in the case of a period of time. So there are some laws, such as the Law of Responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for damage caused by members of the Croatian Armed and Red Armed Forces during the Homeland War, passed in 2003 and related to the period from 17 August to 1990. until August 30, '96. This law, as proposed, refers to the period from '91 to '95. So the law would have to be in some sense collapsed with the provisions of another law. Furthermore, Article 4(5) of the definition of family members should be somewhat broader in accordance with Directive 2004/38 of the European Parliament and of the European Council, which lists who is a member of the family, a spouse with whom a Union citizen has a registered same-sex community, based on the legislation of the Member States, direct descendants who have not turned 21, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136294	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136295	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The war that was in our country in the '90s. For years, he's left terrible consequences. We've had great human losses, we've had enormous material damage, there's been great damage to the cultural good. But when the war is over, there are two major consequences that we still have to deal with today, which are the question of missing persons in the Homeland War and the issue of war crimes. The discovery of missing persons rests on two things, one is technology, a technique that helps us explore the cemetery, and the other is information or tip-off. After almost 30 years of technique no longer has a great opportunity, we're just left with a tip, we're left with co-operation. And that's why the results in the last three years are simply zero or I'm not mistaken, two missing persons have been found. If it hadn't brought in those 3 that were already found 10 years ago, then we could have said 5. This is the opportunity here today to mention one man who is a synonym search for the ensuing and exploration of mass graves, an exchange during the Homeland War, and this is Ivan Grujic, more famous in Croatia as Colonel Grujic and not as Colonel UDBA, according to Bishop Bogovic, but a Colonel of the Croatian Army Ivan Grujic. During his term of office, the fate of 4115 missing persons was resolved. He took part in countless exchanges. He made an incredible contribution, however, in 2016 when HDZ's power came, how did they thank him? Although he was dealing with this problem for 20 years, they thanked him in such a way, that he was simply driven away as a dog and was not in the Office of Presidents or of any distinction, but therefore met with Vukić and announced great results in search of the missing persons from which we see, that absolutely there is nothing. Colonel Ivan Grujic, of course his team, found almost 84% of the missing persons in the Homeland War. It's a fantastic and amazing amount and figure in world terms. It has been pointed out more than once in the speakers and will again, surely, be mentioned, the key to the solution is in Serbia. There is something in BiH, but the biggest key is in Serbia. To achieve such a result, we need to cooperate. The key word is to cooperate again, and only those with strong nerves can cooperate, great patience, good will, unseen perseverance, so I'd say even a strong stomach. But what we have today. We have incompetence, arrogance and ignorance, and that's why it's number two. Let's just remember the case from about a year ago when Mr. Veljko Odalovic, so the official person on the part of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Croatia is offended by the dog's car and what can a man do if he has any dignity? Get up, get up and leave that meeting. A fantastic success for those who insulted him, an amazing fiasco for those who seek for the families of those who seek. However, when it comes to politics, HDZ has managed to make a political issue out of the humanitarian issue, associations from the Homeland War that are mine, and even more to Colonel Grujic's blood on straw and I would say even rightly, because the search for the missing does not suffer any excuses why people have not been found, however, it is interesting that in the last 3 years there is no such thing. Two people were found. Is it possible that the office is open in Vukovar, so some people are employed, and in this way those who might be in trouble are amortised, as we say in the jargon? What did we do during our term of office? Our colleagues sitting here in the Parliament know that as well. We've connected the numbers. So far, by 2012, Croatia has sought 900 of those and 600 of them. We have summed it up, and thank God, this number can no longer be separated because 1491 missing Croatian citizen is wanted. 412 people who have died and who do not know the place have been buried are now added. We had international stands with the support of the Catholic and Orthodox Church, the very top of the church. Were the results spectacular? No, they're not. But in those stands, we realized that every mother pays the same. And that's the key to solving the fate of the missing. You can't look for one without looking for another. What do you do now? Now the government is no longer looking for victims of the Homeland War, they simply marginalized it and put aside, and according to the fact that it's a political issue, they're suddenly mass-exhumed, exhumed victims from II. Holy shit. The war, and you won't believe it, with the moss of the Ustasha. There's no one, of course nothing against it, no one normal has anything against it, but it's interesting. A few words about the law itself. So when there are no results, then the government for the sake of the commission, and the ministries invent some new laws to hide that nothing is done, that here they come to the Parliament and bring some new laws. I've looked at this law thoroughly, and I have to rely on one fact, so that's the speciality of HDZ. In every law, you return some dignity. And on the Law of Defendors, dignity returns, as defenders had no dignity until then, the Law of Defence restores dignity to the soldiers, as they had not until then, in the Law of Agriculture, when it comes to potatoes for cooking and roasting, and returns dignity to them, and by definition honor and gift of man to himself. So dignity is neither you nor anyone who can give it to you nor who can take it away. Here's something my colleague Pupovci said about it, I'd also say a few words. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2 talk about members of the Armed Forces, I meant Armed Forces, all the Armed Forces that participated in the war, but no, only Croatian citizens. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4th century 2rd and B. Strangers, so I think the foreigners were also the ones who attacked us, but no, only with Croatian citizenship, these failed to solve it. The minister said to make suggestions for a second reading. So here we are, making suggestions, putting, if this law is comprehensive, we must find the soldiers of the enemy side, and these are the former JNA, the Serb volunteers who came from Serbia, and we must find them too. It'd be nice to put that in the law, too. In this way we can also exert additional pressure, under quotes of pressure on the other side, to make people realize that after 30 years of war, the war ended and that the question of missing persons is a humanitarian issue and that it is very important to resolve the fates of all the missing. But, again, how important it is to the legislator. You're putting everything into our emergency procedure, and this, there's gonna be some reasons why it goes into two readings, and even when it's a second reading, it says, the rules will be passed six months after the law is passed. Which means this law, how important and how important it is, and how important it is, will not be effective until Christmas, and most likely, it would be convenient at 1.1.2020. But for the end, the SDP will support this law because of a sense of respect for the missing and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136296	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next is counterpart Josip Djakic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please welcome Mr Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136297	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives Club welcomes the adoption of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War. This is the creation of a comprehensive legal basis, a uniform law that will regulate issues related to the rights of missing and deadly victims in the Homeland War, for which the place of burial is unknown, as well as members of their families, needs to be passed for several reasons by this law. First of all, the right of the family to learn the fate of its members missing in the Homeland War is a fundamental human right regulated and protected by a series of international human rights instruments from international humanitarian law. This law regulates the process of activity and jurisdiction in the process of seeking missing and mortally injured persons in the Homeland War. The law will contribute to the country's benefits in solving cases of forced disappearances. The law will prevent the relativisation and manipulation of data on missing persons and historical facts while creating a framework for co-operation in the area of the rights of missing and mortally injured persons and their families and improving relations with countries resulting from the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. The law will also contribute to efforts to develop a partnership with citizens' associations that have so far acted as a corrective action in the area of the protection of the rights of missing and deadly victims in the Homeland War and members of their families. The law will ultimately allow the creation and keeping of records of missing persons on designated sites of mass and individual graves and all identified victims. When we talk about rights, it should be stressed that this law regulates immaterial rights, the right for families to know the fate of their missing members while the material rights of family members of the missing and mortally injured persons in the Homeland War are regulated by the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War. The text of this proposed law also sets out certain ambiguities and indeterminates that need to be corrected, for example, by the draft law in different places, the concept of the ministry is cited and that it is not explained which central government is referring to. We know it is the Ministry of Croatian Defence, but it should be detailed and written. The term appears in the provisions governing the protection of the rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and the deaths of persons in the Homeland War who are unknown to the place of burial and members of their families in Article 7(2) and the provisions governing the initiation of missing persons' search procedures in the Homeland War. The term ministry was only explained in Article 11 as the central body of the state administration responsible for Croatian defenders. In order to avoid the possibility of confusion of wrong interpretation or any other ambiguity as to which the central authority of the state administration is competent to act on those facts, it is necessary to provide an explanation of the concept of the ministry in Article 4 which determines the meaning of certain concepts within the meaning of this law. Furthermore, the provisions of Article 12 are unscheduled, namely the provision lacks words which would clearly determine what the Ministry of Justice is issuing a certificate concerning the records of persons missing from the Homeland War, and in addition Article 12 should be completed with the appropriate wording in a way that should be placed in the corresponding decline before the words of the records. Finally, the reference to the provision of Article 15 of the Law provides that every natural person is obliged to provide the Ministry with all information and documentation available to solve cases of persons missing in the Homeland War and of persons killed in the Homeland War who are unknown to the place of burial. Taking into account the power of the ministry referred to in Article 14 as well as the provisions of Article 16, Article 15 should be complemented by a new sentence, which should read any natural person providing credible information and documentation on the sites of mass and individual graves, will be awarded under a rule governed by the Croatian Defence Ministry. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Croatian Defence Ministry is authorised to require the central authorities of the state administration, organisation, institution and other legal persons to undertake activities under their jurisdiction and those bodies are obliged to comply with this requirement and the law also prescribes fines for both bodies and leaders unless they comply with the request of the Croatian Defence Ministry. The Ministry shall also, in accordance with the provisions of Article 16, process the collected data, knowledge and construction of persons missing in the Homeland War and the deadly victims of the Homeland War for which there is no known place of burial and places of mass and individual tombs, and shall carry out the activities of field reconnaissances and research as well as other activities of its jurisdiction. In this sense, the Croatian Defence Ministry cannot be considered as a data user owned by other central authorities of the state administration, but the ministry collects and processes data, knowledge and construction, which is why it is necessary to enable the Croatian Defence Ministry to ensure greater efficiency through the Institute in finding mass and individual tombs, it is necessary once again to stress that the Republic of Croatia is still searching for 1903 persons and that their families still do not know where their loved ones are and what happened with them. By passing this law, we put ourselves in the same position that the Republic of Serbia already has, by the Law on Migration which defines and prevents us from using the data but also BiH which has rightly regulated this by its Missing Persons Act, I believe that this law will take a new step in finding as many of our missing persons as possible regardless of which nationality and belonging to which army in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that all institutions understand the importance of this law, which is passed as well as those provisions that are infringing so that they cannot be seen to be applied to them because of lack of co-operation, irresponsibility. We can only conclude as the HDZ Representatives' Club that the ministry in the current composition has made significant steps in modernising and making progress and ways of finding people but there are things that we must stress and say that the special criteria and rules in the pre-accession negotiations of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU set up by the Croatian Foreign Ministry, the EU Commission has confirmed, in the first place, that there are very missing persons and, when respected, I think that the key to the solution exists in the ministries and bodies of the Republic of Serbia which have records of mass graves or individual strategists of Croatian soldiers, prisoners or police officers who ended up somewhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It would also mean a lot, and I believe it would also open up new opportunities to discover in the Republic of Croatia all those who are missing, and they were members of an aggressor army or volunteers who came to the ground of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that all together we must look with human eyes, with humanitarian rights and with the prospect that every family or every victim has the right to a dignified funeral, and so does this law that goes to that end. I believe it will be brought unanimously to this home, to be functional and to contribute to further development of the situation of the disappearance of persons in the Homeland War. We believe that all well-intentioned people understand what this law means, as well as all institutions that will be included in the joint cooperation, and today they are through the Government's commission, which is headed by the assistant who is here today, as well as the Minister and Secretary of State who are working together in the ministry on the problem of missing persons, we believe and it is good that in the next presentation is actually presented, no matter how many members of the JNA or members of the militia units that have been killed in the Republic of Croatia. Why wouldn't they know that? I really don't know, it's not a count of blood cells, but it's the truth that we have to face and find these people, decently bury them regardless of whose nationality they were and whose members they were. We believe that every normal understands this need, and even the passing of this law, this is no HDZ manipulation, but a real need... A legal act that will benefit all families who are still searching for their missing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's clear that the Association of Detained and Missing is also headed by the lady. Alvir, who participated in the creation of this law and was as potent as the date defined in this law, on the day of the missing and imprisoned persons in the Republic of Croatia, is one of the things precisely defined in this law, and here, I thank all those who contributed to the creation of this law. The HDZ Club will unreservedly support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136298	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next up is counterpart Goran Beus, in front of the club representing GLAS and HSU. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136299	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Ministry and Government, colleagues and colleagues. One of the worst traumas that arises as a result of war is the unsolved fate of missing persons. Traumas are actually passed on to those who remain behind. They're looking for them. As someone already said, quoting someone who lost their loved ones, but could never find them, it's for close relatives and friends never finished the story. The inability to pay tribute in a specific place and to show a pite, to lay flowers, to pray, or to imagine ourselves in meditation over the fate of ourselves who have remained alive, a terrible, terrible burden, and to give God to no one to seek the nearest without success. The claim found in the text of the proposal of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, resonates ominously. She's kind of defeated. And he says, quote, there is no single law in the Republic of Croatia that regulates the immaterial rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and their families to learn the fate of their missing members and the process of searching for persons missing in the Homeland War and the mortally injured persons unknown to the place of burial. This is a claim that has been made 24 years since the end of the Homeland War or, if we look at it in a broader sense, because of the availability of data, slightly less since the end of the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube. The question is, how aware, aware and moral, if we haven't felt the need for legal provisions for 20 or more years, regardless of whether it's a special law or other laws, we determine a framework in which rights are defined primarily by those who seek their loved ones and who are being led as missing. What's kind of hitting us is that discretion in numbers. We've heard today that the international Red Cross is talking about about the missing person who is well-known from witnesses' testimony that they died, but they don't know where to bury the remains. So the Red Cross is talking about 1621 persons, a national missing persons record of about 1700 persons, and the ministry uses 1491 in the bill. We don't understand how that difference in numbers is because these things are very exact, they relate to specific fates and specific names. There's more to this law than that. I'll say it, but one of them is that the law only limits itself to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is not good, and we think it is pointless, unnecessary because if a general definition is put in place that applies to all persons who are unstable in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it will not dramatically change the situation but it can also include those people who found themselves in the Republic of Croatia and who have simply disappeared. They may be in charge primarily of their home countries but the Republic of Croatia must have the duty to participate actively in all these cases, to take care of them equally as if they were their own citizens because they were missing in its area. Consequences of the results of finding such persons will, of course, regulate and meet likely home countries and it will not be a great burden for us but there is no need to let them out of this circle too because theoretically it could have happened and that someone who does not have citizenship was staying in the territory of the Republic of Croatia at the time of the war and simply disappeared. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't start that kind of pie. Furthermore, after 20 years and more, it is difficult to believe in a higher level of success in finding missing persons, as someone said, but because of the flow of time, because the material evidence has disappeared, disappeared or is somehow less available, among other things, and because the guilty, the participants, many of them are no longer alive. In this sense, we understand that at this stage the level of success cannot be the same as immediately after the person has been reported missing. But also returning to that original thesis that we saw in this bill's proposal that we didn't have the law so far, we can be satisfied with the fact that by 2016 more than 4,000 missing persons were found or defined and that in this sense we had a very high level of success. Why in the last 3 years the extremely thin results should be answered by the legislator himself, that is, the obligation and, in some way, the responsibility of the Government itself. This is not and must not be a question for political parties to conflict on, this is not and must not be a question for us to politicise on. This is a question where the highest level of consensus must be achieved because this is a human, explicitly human law in which we look at the fates of the missing, regardless of who their father was, who their mother was, where they were, whether they were civilians or were armed, it's simply our moral obligation. Even more so, not only must there be no conflict and that the highest possible consensus must be reached, because that is what the people involved are asking us to do. In that sense, we are not for new conflicts. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU club, I warn that it's not a good idea to think that we're going to fight, with those with at least a canvas if not scissors, that we're going to get any results. The fact is that resolving the fate of missing persons in the Homeland War is included in the criteria in the negotiations of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU. It's a very important thing. This will be insisted, but it is not a matter of scandals, but of proactive approach and cooperation, so if you will, and by helping the Republic of Serbia meet this criterion because it is in our interest. So we prefer that everything that has been agreed on, what has been determined as an obligation of proactive approach, constant communication, constant suggestion, initiative and, of course, by participating in what is important to them, in finding the people they are looking for, to achieve an atmosphere that will move away from the day-to-day political issues, from our own or their need to raise tensions before the election of these or those, to see if the chocolates have a blood group or a blood count and other more or less foolish things. It is good that the law opens up the possibility that more NGOs might be involved in the process of finding. It must provide a framework in which the highest level of protection will be provided if you want, privacy data of persons who can help, including those who can and want to testify and help, but provided that they are completely anonymous, we need to find ways to enable, without fear, some who were witnesses or who know from the first, second or third hands something that can help us also include and participate in this by providing useful information. It is definitely clear that this is a serious issue that may even require the formation of inventive teams, i.e. Forensics, it's not just a political issue, it's not just a matter of determining criminal responsibility. This is primarily a question of the search for those who have disappeared and for whom we know or found ourselves doubting that the reason for their disappearance was a war effort. In that sense, I think that there would have to be a literal research team in the ministry that would have in place everything the commission had while it was run by Colonel Grujic with a very high level of success. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, I announce that we will support this law in our first reading, we ask that its hips and width be opened to be as comprehensive as possible and in this sense as useful as possible and we call for us not to share on these issues but to express the highest level of responsibility to these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136300	Thank you, too, for continuing the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, next fellow member of the team, Stjepan Curaj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Here you go, Comrade Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136301	I thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, very briefly I do not want to repeat everything that has been said and what is in the law I just, of course, want to give support on behalf of the club to this law. Given the figures mentioned above and the absence of in Croatia, there has been no single law that regulates non-real rights, it should be pointed out that this law does not regulate any material rights of the families of missing persons, but is currently trying, given that the whole process and activities in the process of seeking a person require that the proposal also interdisciplinary, interdisciplinary approach and cooperation of all competent authorities so that they all work under the same law, so far it has been the most in the administration, jurisdiction in the Department of Detained and Missing in the Ministry of Defence. So I'm not going to list all the ministries right now, I think that's a good step. What amazes me here is when I looked at this material and the basics on which they are called, so these are UN Resolutions from the premise of 1949, then some '63, then '86. and only now are we coming up with a declaration about the role of the state in the 2014 missing persons, and today in 2019 it is obvious that some things have been possible long before. Why they didn't, it might not even matter now, it's what's going to be further. But here I can say that more than half of those resolutions that are called upon in this law are more than half a century old. What is important and the areas that are governed by these laws will certainly not now be listed by the collection and keeping records of research, exhumation, all established places, but in the law, I would even ask it to be established on 30.8th as the Day of Remembrance of Missing Persons, even though the UN resolution or decision was declared on 30 August and we each year mark it as the day of the missing persons, the International Day of Missing Persons. We, such a world-renowned man, are now putting a little bit in the context of this law, I don't think I know what that is exactly the point, but now that we need to change that name and put in particular I don't know what it is that we want to do, maybe a little bit to embezzle that international day, and I don't think it's necessary to give some of our pain to it, I think that's where we should mention it, and we should certainly say that it is a day and that it is legally introduced even though it is already by other acts already, the decisions of this country recognised as an international day in the final line we are members of the UN. A total of over 2,500 people have disappeared, of which we are speaking specifically here today for 1,903 unsolved cases from the Homeland War. How much in preparation I am, even the oldest, still not found in 1961, so we are not talking about the consequences of the Homeland War, but in general. So there's one broader, wider context and now I'm just curious why we have now in the last three years so weak progress, where there are problems, whether or not there is or not, I haven't encountered in researching a certain reward that will lead to finding a place, whether or not she'd like to hear it, any reward that will lead to finding tombs of mass, individual, any or any missing person in this record. It's the first, it's something that's been done in the world and for people who have disappeared and for people who are wanted as fugitives, whatever model. So that's one maybe extra stimulant. Of course, I'm in touch, and with one of the presidents of the Missing Persons Association, he's from Osijek who hasn't found his son yet, and they always have some information to know someone who's something, but that's not being processed. Of course, if that disappearance is dependent on some war crime, then people very little come out with that data, because they're not subject to that law in the '90s, even though the late President Tudjman brought about general forgiveness, because it's a special, special act of war crime. And maybe there's a problem, of course, one of the bigger ones why it's no longer there, why we don't come up with more information, and that way we need to look at it so that under quotes we can jump into someone, keep secrets, not show people who are potentially war criminals. And maybe it's not the goal of finding the criminal himself now and finding out at all that crime was committed, as far as finding that person, but let's first focus on the first part of it, offer maybe certain rewards to all who bring it, contribute to finding any of these missing persons because while one person is missing, we'll always unfortunately have this story that we're not going to be able to close that book and 1903 is that number and progress that's the last few years of the alarm of all the alarms and the question is that something dramatic is going to happen, and that's what I think we're all clear about. I'm not saying that there's neither a guilty assistant nor a guilty minister nor a guilty government, maybe everyone has a part of the guilt, maybe not, but obviously we can all be together guilty of doing nothing more than on the one hand, and so on the other, there's no side. Victim has no side, victim has no nationality, no color, no nothing. She's a victim and they're all the same. And on that side, it's always smart and good to do what you can and clean up at your door and then finger someone else and we can't forget that. So I say, constructive proposals I don't know if there is, there isn't, this law requires additional funding, I say, and I think it's good, of course we'll also support the adoption of this law, and everything that makes it easier for all actors, all the stakeholders who need all the ministries and state bodies involved in these foreign affairs ministries, judicial bodies, defenders, defenses, everything, the police, to have a easier way, that but we have to be stronger and more proactive because only formal legal explanations won't bring us much if we don't put on some agenda that's not just 38th, or when these laws are on the agenda, but it's something that's constantly done, I believe it's working, but it's also being spoken and spoken because in public it's when there's an interstate meeting, and then someone moves the question of the missing, and then someone passes it's 2th and 3th. Nothing, a month and someone's back a little bit, and in the meantime, we don't have any results. So the concrete proposal here from this pay phone is to try to find a reward fund that will contribute, for a reward to the person who contributes to finding any missing person so let it be an additional motive for those who know about at least where these people are, I won't say buried because I don't think it's a proper name, mostly just buried because when we find the last victim and the last person missing, then we can close that book and we can go forward and as a society, because until then unfortunately, so I'm not saying it's always going to be that history that needs to be in history and not living in today and these families can't close that book and they're going through that history all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136302	Thank you. Following on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Club of Independent Representatives is a colleague of Tomislav Žagar, please welcome colleague Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136303	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Right away at the start, I'm going to say that the Independent Representatives' Club is going to be very supportive of this bill. Of course it's not smart to say that this law should have been passed before, so we're all politically responsible should have brought in a long time ago and I'm going to read a part that seems most important to me in this part of the reasoning of the law, says the following. Since there is no law in the Republic of Croatia that regulates the immaterial rights of persons missing in the Homeland War and their families to learn the fate of their missing members, legal regulation of these issues by means of a single law will protect the fundamental rights of missing persons and their families at a higher level. It will also contribute to the preservation of the dignity of missing persons in the Homeland War, members of their families, and the preservation of the dignity of the victims of the Homeland War as a whole. This is certainly true, however, but it should be added here that such a legislative proposal will contribute to the dignity of the state of the Republic of Croatia, here is a matter of state dignity because all those who have disappeared in the Homeland War, which is the basis of the creation of this state, deserve to be taken care of. And what is a constant problem in the Republic of Croatia and this law paints it, so there is a series as stated in the law, organisation, institution in the Republic of Croatia which deals with the issue, but there is no systematic approach and this law wants to make it a systematic approach that will allow this difficult work to be done more effectively and better. So once again, I would like to stress that we will support this legislative proposal but allow one comment. Article 42 states who makes all commissions, writes that it is made by the ministries, the central body of the state administration responsible for internal affairs that I do not read further. It seems to me that it is the 21st century and that this could very much help in this job for which the law is intended, that the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society should include here, because in Article 37, when we talk about the records, it says that the way in which the content is kept and the rest... and keeping records of persons missing in the Homeland War and the records of people killed in the Homeland War who are unknown to the place of burial, is governed by the rules adopted by the Croatian Defence Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With all due respect and the minister of Croatian defenders and all the knowledge and competences he has, I think it is also necessary to include the central state office in these days because all of the opportunities provided today by the Internet in general, in the broadest sense of the words that social networks can also include are certainly data that can then be served by intelligence institutions to make it easier for those persons to be found and that these data can then be recorded in such records. We have no other major objections to this law and we will support it in the vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136304	Thank you, too. So we're done with the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs, and now we're starting an individual debate, first colleague, Miro Bulj, here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136305	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, it's a very important law and as I said, and in the name of the club, it's a very important name of this law. This law, we have proposed to the Minister and to you that, when it comes to the 1903 law of the missing person, that the law be called the name that will point to the real one, what was and what was true, which is that this law, instead of the Law on the Missing in the Homeland War, is called the Law on the Missing in Greater Serbian Aggression, because large- Serbian aggression is both the cause and the consequences of all victims, was of Serbian nationality, Croatian nationality, is irrelevant. Great Serbian aggression is the cause and effect, and the consequences are unfortunately, what we have now. And so we're talking about terrible data here, that the Republic of Croatia still has 193 people who have disappeared, and that is, here, since the beginning of the war, 28 years, means that we've simply witnessed that there are archives in Belgrade that are mainly in the services of the former KOS and those lists of all the missing, but we expected that the minimum of what will be done on the side, Serbia will deliver you here, that our missing and dead persons will be delivered to the Croatian side because of their families. However, as the government has done nothing, it is a sad fact that for victims, I repeat, for victims in Sotina, found, their families, in Lovas, Ovcara, their families, their families for the protection of their rights and claims, the Serbian citizen pays legal services, and the state does not pay them in Belgrade in court disputes. That's as much as the state did to our people, to humiliate them. I don't think we should allow it as a state towards people and families who have given their lives and we need to be there a lot, we just have to be there for these people. We have further humiliated by opening chapters 23 and 24 of Serbia because simply our minimum terms, but if the president of the Republic of Serbia was coming here, Alexander Vukic, then he should have been told we will not open chapters 23 and 4 because the only tool Croatia has to get to this point is to block itself right now, until you can resolve it, and of course, the relationship with the Croats in Serbia as a national minority because we have a Croatian national minority who does not have the same rights as the Serb community in us, I would be happy that the Croatian national minorities have approximately the rights in Serbia as it has here, so I would be too happy to have. That's a fact. The only thing we can do is block Serbia in the EU and open chapters 23 and 24 where legal jurisdiction is in the entire area of the former Yugoslavia. We cannot allow defenders to remain on the hunting ground and be persecuted by the Serbian state, and at the head of that state is a Chetnik who called on people of Serbian nationality to attack their neighbours. I will now highlight a very important role, so that people of Serbian nationality do not turn out to be in the Homeland War. I live with these people, who were in the Homeland War, who are honorable people, who contribute to the Croatian people, who are political Croats of Serbian nationality, but who work in these communities in the best possible way, and I am proud of people from my place and all the people I know of Serbian nationality who were as many as 9,000 people of Serbian nationality in HV, HOS and police units. So this is not what I'm talking about victims or want to share blood cells, but we don't have any other tools right now, gentlemen. As long as they don't meet this minimum, not let us have the Wolf mocking loyally and drag us away. So the minimum courtesy of it was to go to the place where he called and hogged, to apologize to Croatia. These people, first those people of Serbian nationality, then the Croats. Therefore, I believe that the blockade of Serbia by the time it meets that part, means number 1 all missing, a list of all missing. The second is to pay war damage because the cause and effect of these victims is large-scale Serbian aggression. I know that you, as the majority of the Parliament, have a link in the European People's Party, that you and Chetnik Vukic are in the coalition and his party, but here, above all, there must be people who have given their lives and their families. I'm not against cooperating with anyone. But there must be a minimum of dignity. Minimum. I know that Colonel Sucic and you all at the Ministry of Defence are working, doing your utmost and a good desire to find our missing, but it cannot be allowed for the foreign minister not to call any commission appointed by the Government to accompany Serbia in chapters 23 and 24. To be informed by the President of the Republic, report once a year. It has not notified it once in 2017 and 2018. Well, that's a minimum of decency. So whose truth does she work for? The fact that she was a little of Slobin's advisor, and now she's Mr. Dacic's minister, to be clear. She's a foreign minister now. Well, I have to work in the interest of what the government has made a decision, Commissioner. In the interest of finding our missing victims, not that Natasa Kandic, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, pays lawyers to our families who seek their right in Belgrade. And the state nothing. And what is more important to them than lobbying, that they be in the EU, our minister, with Wolf and them? So we have to protect, our campers have to do it on their own, their testimony isn't gathered in one place. Our campers must seek their own rights. Most of them. So where's the system? Again, I repeat, do not share the victims by, repeat, share the victims by blood grains, but the cause and the triba written in the law is that the great Serbian Chetnic aggression emphasized, whether the Croatian people did not strike against Nis, not towards Belgrade, but they slaughtered not far from Zagreb di Vukic called on people never to, that the borders of the great Serbia, that is true and that the triba will not, you will not, you will not, you will not, until the moment our national minority is protected, so at least nearly as Serbian in the Republic, and not part of the government to go to the Chetnik parties when the day of the Storm is 10 days ago compares our operation of Storm, a legitimate operation, to compare with the Jessenian and I do not know what concentration camps from World War II. So minimum courtesy for the people who gave everything for this Republic, for the people who stayed behind. The Minister of Foreign Affairs doesn't do anything. I suggested that our children know about the peacemaker for the future. Shrecker, to be a peacemaker's day and Dr. The shretcher that Milorad Pupovac could talk a lot about is the testimony saying that he knows a lot about it, we would solve that problem. Which is why there's no dr. Schreter? Which is why the HDZ, HNS and SDSS coalition did not support this proposal, but you removed Dr. Schreter, who invited Serbs to his brothers, who did not keep the country's war, to be with the rifle, but he said that the Croatian state was separated in a decent way, civilised way, not like that of Chessel's Chechnya brush who carried beer behind his blood attacks on our people. Well, minimally, I know that you're the defender, Brigadier Vukic, Sucic, I know that Minister Medved has, but we have to rise up all together, so say it to Minister and Andrej Plenkovic, it's time to protect these people and stand behind these people, so they're more important than Vucic and lobbying the European People's Army and coalitions with HDZ, it's a minimum of what we're gonna do for our missing, minimum, we don't have more obligations than that obligation, find our missing. But the only tool we have right now is to force and block Serbia until it's resolved, the only one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136306	We have five replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136307	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bulj, as you comment and in light of what you were saying, a diplomatic scandal since last year when the prime minister, President Vukic, was admitted here with the greatest honours, so our diplomacy and the president of the Republic of Croatia and the prime minister did not ask President Vukic for information on our missing persons, so he came with some papers, how much information you have that he brought information about the missing, so I think it is a first-rate diplomatic scandal, such as the scandal when HDZ's representatives in the Europarlament did not ask for the Secrets to be told and replaced by scandalous statements, so we have a diplomatic subsidistic policy towards Serbia and the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136308	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136309	Thank you very much. Well, the minimum of what was supposed to be when, I remember when those files were in the president's office, in the president's office, we expected it to be a list of our missing. These were the parent books from the Court area of the Union from that area of people of Serbian nationality who, of course, went out to be able to return, so they could have their books, and then they announced that they were going to come here to Vukic. He was not worthy to go to Croatian Clay to apologize because he spoke there would be Serbian Clay and invited those people who made them from him above all criminals, butchers and great victims of the Serb people in the area. He had to first go to Serbia's Glina to apologize to the Serbian people if he was hoarding them, and then to the Croatian people, and only then can we lead the talks in a way that brings him to one signature, score all the missing. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136310	Thank you. The next replica of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136311	Thank you. So today we did not mention the Declaration on the role and responsibility of the state in resolving the issue of persons missing due to war conflicts and human rights violations from 2014 signed by the Republic of Croatia together with Serbia and BiH, and Montenegro in 2014. in Mostar. And they didn't fully integrate her into this list. There are several important points, one of them is the determination to fully support the commitment to respecting the rights of survivors, including family rights due to armed conflicts. And point 4, our belief that cooperation between governments is necessary and that the exchange of information is supported, which is rarely a binding condition for the launch of effective, reliable and transparent processes that will enable the discovery and identification of the missing, and that such cooperation should be based on the relevant agreements that build up and the principles of this Declaration. So, in that sense, it was desirable to cooperate and build into all other legal regulations, and that didn't happen here. How do you interpret that? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136312	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136313	Nor do we have any agreements, nor have agreements been agreed on the basis of good cooperation. We simply have pressure on the government at that moment, I don't know from whom, which, when ordered, must receive Vukic, if he said I don't know who Brussels, Paris who orders to come to the Republic of Croatia and make fun of the Croatian people, so he mocked Pupovac, he called the man Pupi, that I told you I wouldn't vote for the Croatian Defence Act, so I let you go, so fall, but that's part of today's government. We have to do everything we can to find it, to find it up to one victim, and to dig it up with dignity, and to make these people die to light a candle. Here are the political games, interests, lobbying is obviously more important to the present government to figure out a place for the minister of justice than to get rid of this foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136314	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136315	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bulj, I have already pointed out in that opening replica, so that this government violates its valid decision and that Minister Pejcinović Buric is not calling on a committee that should systematically monitor Serbia's implementation of these criteria in Chapter 23. It's all about the relationship of this government and what you've come to us here today, you've brought this law as some kind of pyr, and you're not solving anything. On Tuesday, in Belgrade, counterpart Bacic, who you are talking on the phone while talking about this important topic, was supposed to be the first hearing for 16 families of Sotina victims, counterpart Bulj said. Serbian civil society is paying them a lawyer. What are you doing? What are you doing with the Department of Defense and you from the Department of Foreign Affairs? You're violating the government's decision. That's what you do. You can be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136316	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136317	Nothing more painful than forgetting your victims and mostly missing. And indeed that one ministry and government do not respect the government's decision on such an important issue on the implementation of Chapters 23 and 24. What does that mean? That the state, here are the two brigades and Mr. Assistants, that the state of Croatia allows private persons, physically, citizens of the Republic of Serbia to pay our families missing from the Homeland War to pay them fines, to pay them lawyers, pardon them, and the state is nothing, so it is about campers. So there was no protest in Vukovar, he was calm, he was not against anyone, which was then emphasized.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136318	Thank you. Next replica, Col. Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136319	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, here by reading this law, I must admit that I was surprised not to notice that anywhere is the true character and the outcome of the war, it is well stated that at least the Homeland War, therefore, great Serb aggression or politics, is the aggressor one that has initiated all these evils. When we say that, we do not intend to generalise the responsibility of all Serbs, and you have repeatedly pointed out that the Serbs in your area, that you have seen them as brothers, as people who experience the same terror, therefore, and great Serb politics, as the rest of us do. Do you think abandoning this fact helps solve this problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136320	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136321	The first thing that needs to be changed in law is just a name. So, instead of the Homeland War, the Serbian aggression should be placed here, is simply the cause of all the missing Serbian aggression and the victims from the Serbian side and the victims from the Croatian side, and the triba emphasized and this triba emphasized whether the Homeland War was not initiated by the Croatian state, but by the Serbian state and it was a Serbian Chetnic rebellion for the borders of Serbia and, of course, it's strange why there is no financial means, and that's odd, but it will explain it from the ministry, but it's embarrassing that our victims, families of victims, must pay natural persons from Serbia, legal services, that the Croatian state was neither willing to do it for these people with disrespect, so this, [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136322	Thank you. The next last replica of your presentation of counterpart Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Bull, any politicization and this kind of debate on this important issue is too high. The missing don't deserve this, not from you, not from your club. It is clear and unequivocal that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in the 7th month. 2016 set clear criteria and criteria that have been submitted to the European Commission and the European Commission. Among these special criteria and criteria, the first criterion was the problem of missing and imprisoned, the issue is too important not to be put into Serbia's EU accession negotiations. Therefore, the second question is compensation to the victims on that same list, so you cannot say that the government has done nothing, there is no closure of Chapter 23, 24 until Specific criteria and criteria [[Intruder: Thank you]] They don't meet. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136324	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136325	My colleague Djakic, I was at a protest in Vukovar, he wasn't politicized by what you were saying, he wasn't politicized, I wasn't even going against the government, I was going to hear the cry of werewolf victims who had nowhere to say their problem. Rapes, clans, burned, killed in the most morbid way, while these same rapists are now living in Vukovar, that's what they're saying. I'm sorry you weren't, I wish you'd been, he wasn't politicized, he was crying and a message from Vukovar. Listen to these people, you've been trying to come, not sending that someone wants political messages there, go, listen to these people, and you'll see that we have no bad intentions towards these people of Serbian nationality, dadaco. rather than cause major Serbian aggression [[Intruder: Thank you]] which you [[Intruder: Thank you]] You must not say anything because of your cooperation with the Wolf. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136326	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is my colleague Branimir Bunjac, here's your colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136327	Thank you, Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so today we are talking about missing persons trying to pass some special law, there are few and passionate speakers here, but in fact this matter needs to be seen by cold heads, analyticalally, objectively, scientifically, and in fact we don't need to invent some, say, hot water because this whole problem is actually resting on international law. So, international law, it's pretty clear since the 19th century, we've had The Hague Geneva Convention, so when enemy soldiers are captured and they need to be cared for, they should also be taken care of by hostile, therefore, wounded and all graves should be guarded. So, regardless of who fought on which side, we simply have to record all graves and give them due respect and dignity. Every person has to have his name and last name and, in fact, once the war is over, then the whole thing needs to be accessed from a peaceful point of view. Unfortunately, we have a situation today that in fact the state doesn't seem to care about its own graves, let alone for others, we have an inheritance very unfortunate yet from past states where it was absolutely nothing to worry about, where the graves were destroyed, I don't even know the Austro-Hungarian soldiers, Croats of course who fought in the Austro-Hungarian army, not to mention foreign armies now, etc. And that's where it seems to be happening because of two key elements. The first key element is the incompetence of the state administration. So it's really hard for me to understand that we're not even 29 years old. We haven't been able to find 2,000 people, it's really hard for me to understand. It's hard for me to understand not because of some kind of private structure of mine, but simply because I got 15 years old. dealt with war victims as a scientist and I admit that sometimes it's very difficult to find a missing person, but also my experience teaches that it's generally possible, as a rule it's possible, it's usually possible, it just needs to be systematic, it just needs to be persistent and it just needs to, therefore, use a wide diapazone method in search of the missing teams. So, on that side, it seems to me that the authorities themselves may not be sufficiently involved in the search for the missing. And the other reason why I think it is is that the authorities themselves are obstructing the search for the missing because of the reasons for politicization. Of course, the main burden falls on the aggressor side, so, on the side of Serbia, because as far as I understand from all the available public data, they actually know where these graves are, so they know where these graves are, they know where these mass graves are, and then they should actually achieve that they simply tell everyone where these graves are and that these graves are exhumed and that people are properly buried. So these are two sides of this story that should be improved and I'm sure there would be results in that case. Society cannot, unfortunately, move forward until this issue is resolved, until some catharsis is made, until the families find out where the graves of their loved ones are, it is simply very difficult to heal the old wounds. It's not just old Homeland War wounds, there's someone mentioning, I agree here that we're generally a society where there are missing persons. We have missing persons from World War II, we have missing persons after World War II, it's literally about tens of thousands of people who have never been found out how they ended up, and it's not even trying to find out because it's more relevant to someone again that this question is politicized. For example, Slovenians recorded absolutely all the cemetery from World War II, although in most of these cemeterys they are not Slovenians. They recorded it all, so if they could record the cemetery that was created 70 and over years ago, how we couldn't record the cemetery that was created less than 30 years ago.? So that's some questions. We actually just like to come to some places, raise flags, maintain mass, and then our story with the missing and killed is more or less over and that's not good. There are also, of course, manipulations with the number of victims that are just sometimes tragic starting, I don't know, from some camps in World War II that were where you have and who is not and who was alive and who died, etc., and then I say all the way to that Homeland War where it's supposed to not know who did it, and murderers often walk the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's what we should be worried about. Our neighbors are rarely murderers. People who have bloody hands, who no one has ever prosecuted to be in prison one day. I personally met them during my research and even laughed at them when I asked them if they had any remorse or anything. So in fact, this problem needs to be seen with a much broader aspect. What I would like to propose is to pass a general law on missing persons, the whole Act on making a list of victims, the 20th century above all, to target some means, what were you giving, this HS gave 11 million kuna to Vici Vukojevic for what? What did HS give 11 million Mr. Vukojevic for? To find out in the end that he embarrassed, I don't know, both HS and the Croatian state, he was doing some of those lists of victims, etc., there was never any of it, and at least some of the benefits. If you can already give 11 million kunas, therefore, to some useless commission that has done nothing but embarrass its country, then you could give, I don't know, 11 million kunas to some team that would adequately and professionally and as quickly and more concretely solve this issue. It would certainly contribute, I repeat once again, not only to the healing of society, but to the healing of the relationship between the two states. And it is right that those who say that the proponents of large Serbian politics should not have come to Zagreb before they paid their respects to the victims in the Homeland War, it should not have happened. I don't mind that, I don't know, Croats and Serbs, friends, to visit, to have economic relations, but the path of the Serbian president, even the Serbian president who, therefore, is an exponent of a large Serb policy open, must lead across the Ovcara and other sides of this Homeland War. You can't come to Zagreb without it, you've made a huge failure, and it really doesn't work for you, Mr. HDZ. You were ashamed of yourself the same way you were embarrassed when you went to Banja Luka for the award of honor to a convicted war criminal and that's what your mistake was and I ask you to look at your responsibility about the whole picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136328	Three replicas. He's my first colleague, Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136329	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Bunjac, in your presentation, you said that Slovenians discovered, examined and found all the caves from World War II and what is the problem in your opinion, why did we not do the same in the Croatian state today, and why are the postwar victims of the 1990s not being investigated as we should? Which is why and what is the relationship to victims in the Republic of Croatia since World War II, so until today and why, it is the question, you are a historian, you have investigated and asked you now why it is not made in the Republic of Croatia in your opinion, I know why it is not, but to see what you will say to this question of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136330	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Misic, I just answered your question, one reason is certainly not to invest enough funds. And the other reason is because this topic is terribly politicized. So, let's say, when a historian or yet an expert in another profession wants to deal with this problem, he is asked to pre-prove the research results. So he doesn't have the freedom objectively, he's free to deal with the subject, but he's got to root for one ideology, he's got to root for one policy, and then people just ignore it, he knows that if he's gonna deal with it, he's just gonna put problems on his neck, and he's not gonna get any social recognition. I already mentioned it once, let's just say in Stalin's day, everyone studied ancient history and ancient man because no one dared study this modern age because they knew they'd end up in a gulag or a gulag. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136331	The next replica of my colleague Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136332	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, I think we agree, therefore, that this law is necessary for several reasons that are mentioned, therefore, and in an explanation, the more the neighbouring states have long passed such a law. However, I absolutely agree with the part of your debate that speaks of the need in a systematic and legal way to solve research into the cemetery and the sites of World War II. Even here they have in BiH within the Croatian National Assembly since at the state level we have nothing arranged we have formed that the Department of Research of Strategics and Cemeteries of World and Homeland War II. Therefore, I believe that this issue is well regulated by this law, that is, in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Defence Ministry, but we must therefore also legally regulate, therefore, one system law, regulation and infrastructure both legal and financial. I'm not sure this law will also need financial resources if we make progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136333	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136334	Your Honor, counsel, so you're right, it's necessary by law to resolve fully. I know as a historian from Međimurje that almost on a daily basis in Chakovec the Russians, Bulgarians, Germans, Americans, came looking for their deaths. So it's just that you can't forget it, you never forget it. I was personally called dozens and dozens of people, some of whom were already very old who simply begged that someone tell them before they died where their fathers, their mothers, their brothers ended up. And what's worst of all, there are often data about it, but simply state structures don't want to put them in public. Let's say I know that police files are stamped and you can't get to police files even though they, therefore, stand in HS and that's the thing for which work is to be done [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder:...you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136335	And the last replica of your presentation, my colleague Jelkovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136336	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Bunjac, so I cannot agree with some of the allegations in your debate, such as That the people who are sitting here today and all those who are in the last 25 years. We've done a lot to identify the missing, in terms of mass graves in the Republic of Croatia, to say that we've only done that we're only ready to come, maintain mass and pray and that's it. So that's how you demean all the work that these people have done and I can't believe that's how you want to send a message. Who and what? Of course, all those who are still missing today, for them and their families, are not done enough, but it doesn't mean that it's not working, there are some objective circumstances that didn't achieve the results that everyone would want, but in such flat-rate reviews we won't get better results. That's why today's law is to try as much institutional integration as possible. Enhancing Action [[Intruder: Thank you...]] in that segment. [[Intruder:...you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136337	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136338	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Jelkovac. As far as I've noticed, thousands of mass have been held, say, for war victims, but you tell me, aproximately, how many people have been killed since World War II? Round to 10,000, here, do you have any numbers? You don't even know about it, you don't know anything about it. Who is responsible if people from the Ministry and people from the Croatian Government are not responsible, etc. So we just don't have any data. Even I personally don't know what those numbers would be. So he's very fond of politicizing, and maybe even this law today is in that function, but basically what he needs is concrete results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136339	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Miro Kovac, please welcome colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Minister Bear, Secretary of State and all of Mr. Bear's associates on this bill. This bill is of quality and this is a strong step towards the necessary resolution of missing issues in the Republic of Croatia. So, by this law, when we bring it here in the Republic of Croatia to HS, it will be the competent Ministry of Croatian Defence for all those missing from the Republic of Croatia, for Croatian citizens, whether they are Croatian defenders or not, whether they are civilians or even members of rebel formations that have destroyed the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to congratulate Mr. Medvedo and his associates for that. The question of the missing is of course for our political community, how we treat the missing, how we treat our citizens, how we treat families who seek their loved ones, those with whom they are connected, but it is also a matter of cooperation with the countries with which we were attacked in the Homeland War and I want to recite only one instrument mentioned in this bill, that is the Council resolution, the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Council of 2013. In which it is said, and as regards missing persons from European wars, in which I quote, solving the problem of missing persons due to armed conflicts in Europe is vital for the establishment of reconciliation between wars by the war of broken societies and former warring parties, and for ensuring peace on the European continent. That is why it is important to address the missing and, as the main causes, that there are still so many missing persons, two main reasons are listed. The first is that there is not enough political will and that some individuals fear revenge if they seek their loved ones. As we know, the Croatian government has concluded two co-operation protocols on the plan with two neighbouring countries, with Montenegro and with BiH, which is commendable, but with that country with which we have the most challenges, with the Republic of Serbia, there is no legal mechanism on the plan. There is no co-operation with Serbia that is satisfactory on the plan of finding missing persons and therefore we are almost 3 years ago. had the power, the vision, as the Croatian government, to stop the negotiations on Chapter 23, and nothing had previously been made in that previous government, although there were individuals in that government who wanted to resolve it, the minister of justice was among them, but the government as such decided not to step forward, we stopped negotiations and put several conditions in this famous Chapter 23, negotiations between Serbia and the EU, on Serbia's membership in the EU. And very clearly here we have installed a criterion regarding the missing and Serbia has an obligation to co-operate with the Republic of Croatia when it comes to finding the missing. Without meeting that criterion, Serbia will not meet the criteria for EU accession, only one sentence of all outstanding issues about this is clearly stated here, must be fully resolved, fully resolved when it comes to missing persons. So if we'd done it then, we'd have what we'd say in the modern dictionary... We went against some major current with colleagues in the EU, but we did it smartly and well and today's law that is in the Republic of Croatia we want to adopt where the result is and that act before 3.g. That we now have a Croatian government that continues on this plan and a missing persons law is passed, thank God. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wish we could deal with it with some protocol with our colleagues in Serbia, but as we can see and hear there is no cooperation, with BiH, Montenegro we have co-operation and we do not have to introduce some criteria. Here we now have a built-in criterion, a negotiating criterion, and until it is met, there is no way in the EU. I expect colleagues in the Republic of Serbia to see through, realize that it is a humanitarian issue and the issue of reconciliation between the Republic of Serbia and the Croats. However, my dear friends, we will not stop there, I at least expect it from the Croatian government, from our colleagues in HS, this is the first step, the next step must be the law that we will pass, which, on the rights of Croatian campers, and we have to deal with it by law because unfortunately we cannot do otherwise, obviously we can't do some protocols, with our colleagues of Montenegrins and we have solved it, the question of the campers, with our colleagues in Serbia, but when we have already done this law or we want to bring it to HS about the missing, then the next step is logical, I expect it, I don't doubt it at all when it comes to the Croatian government and the Croatian Ministry of Defence headed by the Medveda that we will make a step on this plan. So, in the second phase of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Campers, we need it. The campers, Croatian citizens who were in camps during the Homeland War and there we have again a foothold in Chapter 23 where neighbouring Serbia must ensure access to justice to all victims of war and of course we must not leave it to individuals to collect lawyers, finance their defenses, but here and as we do now here with this Law of the Missing, all as a political community must engage. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not only an obligation by the Republic of Croatia to its citizens, according to its defenders, according to my own, to express myself patheticly, to my martyrs, but that they are... in the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, this is the right step, the necessary step to address the issue of the legacy of war against the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, reconciliation in this case with Serbia or with the Serbian people can only be achieved in a way that can solve open issues, there is nothing there, there is no hatred, there is no anger, it is a question of cold-blooded accession in the interests of Croats in the Republic of Croatia, all citizens in the Republic of Croatia and cooperation with Serbia, that is crucial. If some other countries were able to solve this, they were numerous processes, to mention again one example which was called out, but which is important between Germany and France, if it was possible between Germany and Poland, then it is necessary to achieve it between the Republic of Serbia and Serbia and I am therefore convinced, so for the third time I will commend this bill, I am convinced that this law on the missing step is in the right direction to continue the new bill that we expect in this meeting of HS, which is my wish, on the rights of Croatian campers in the concentration camps in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during the Homeland War, these people deserve compensation, and the Croatian state has a duty to take care of their citizens, of their defenders and to achieve a quality relationship with their neighbours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136341	Thank you. At your presentation we have two replicas, but before the replica we welcome the delegation of the Croatian Military School Franjo Tudjman and the students of the Ban Josip Jelačić War School who joined us. Good afternoon and welcome! ... Replica number one, colleague Felak, come in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136342	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with Associates, colleague Kovac, you, I think, have very well cut this law and I join your praises to this bill, I am surprised that this law has not been passed before in HS, but it is never too late for those who seek their loved ones to be very late even without this law, but we have heard the numbers as many others are being asked. My particular question to you is do you think that this Government of the Republic of Serbia, you yourself mentioned that the biggest problem is essentially in Serbia's leadership, is this Government of the Republic of Serbia and these people who are leading today, and we know what they did during the war, at all, have any intention of helping find missing persons or all they do is just selling fog to a little bit of EU support? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Felak, unfortunately, does not seem to me to know, unfortunately, I must say, that there is no consciousness, perhaps with some of these consciousnesss is beginning to form. It is our job to bring Serbia's colleagues to the conclusion of the issue. Personally, I was the subject of heavy attacks and campaigns when we started this almost 3 years ago, terrible attacks, terrible insults in the press in the Republic of Serbia, I'm proud of that because we did the right thing and today we see, we have a consensus in HS and finally we have what, a draft law on the missing. So, unfortunately, we have to pressure our colleagues to start solving the missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136345	Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136346	Thank you, Vice President HS. Comrade Kovac, of course you've been in foreign affairs, you know a lot, you've been in Serbia, you've said everything in your presentation, this is a people's human question to get rid of missing people. Have you noticed through your actions that the Serbs are trying to apologize to us for this war that happened? I don't think they are yet and then if they don't, we don't have a chance to solve... It's nice that this law was passed, of course, and long ago I asked you why the truth was stopped in the Republic of Croatia from 45 to 95 years ago. And that's one question. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can write laws, we can talk in HS as long as we want, and if we don't do something drastic or say a lot of gentlemen, the time has been long ago, and we still haven't achieved that time today. So this is the story in HS, the truth is quite different, mothers cry today. They don't know where the graves are. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Answer, please...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136347	...college Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Music, my colleague, I understand you, I understand your skepticism, but we must admit that we have begun to move on this plan. We started to move, I also mentioned to our predecessors that there were individuals who wanted to solve it, I'm sorry that they failed to impose on the previous government, I mean the one before Oreshkovic's government, the government of the SDP, we started to compensate, and today we have a culmination temporary in this proposal of the Missing Persons Act. I am convinced that every Croatian government must be committed and will be committed to resolving this issue, without this issue there is no peace in the Republic of Croatia, there is no reconciliation between the Republic of Serbia and there is no membership of Serbia in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136349	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Stevo Culey, here's your colleague, Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136350	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to start this debate in a way to say that true water is deep from the song of one of us known. Why am I going that way? Well, because in this HS, I've staged more exhibitions about what happened in Borov Sele 2.5 and the war crime that was committed there. I've also set up exhibitions in connection with the fall of Vukovar and, of course, at the same time in the exhibitions, and I can see now that there's not a majority that even this topic isn't interested in, and that's why the truth is deep. The controllers of the past control the present, and through their actions they plan to control our future. Those who controlled the past in a way that in the 46th, 50th and 64th were investigating the victims of war and porn, but only one, and these are the winners of the second war, the victims of those who killed were not at all interested. We're doing a big step, we're making a step forward that all victims are equally interested in us and to determine the facts about these victims that are missing. The missing victims, when you open this M.O.P. search engine missing, then you may find yourself there dropped out of the train, strayed from the house, disappeared in an unknown direction and disappeared Mirko Gombić, gone Martinović Zlatko. But you know what the difference between all these missing people is? Those who have disappeared and say strayed from the house are as valuable as Mirko and Zlatko. And you know what the difference is in their disappearance? Those who have disappeared have disappeared in peacetime and under the control of Mr. Bauk, and these Zlatko and Mirko that I am talking about, they have disappeared in the manner of the unit command of the Negoslavs, a confirmation confirming that the crevar Nikola Marko is authorized by that command to take over the prisoners and that Gombović Mirka and Martinović Zlatka of the cost of Velepromet Vukovar, the authority was given by Major Veselin Sljivancanin. That's the difference when we talk about missing people. Whoever controls our past, our present, this way, disappears, will control our future? Because when I type in the missing, I want to see why who's who and where's gone, so it can be seen that he's dr. Schretter disappeared in Camp Butje, to see who was hired there to save him, to see the role of those same people who here in HS with such a pathetic attitude towards all the victims and moved me, tears came to me, speaking anxiously, quietly, fondly. For what? Is this their truth and their conversion to working together to find those who have disappeared? They say the Croatian and Serbian judiciary co-operates. Well, of course he's cooperating. But how do they cooperate? So, a confirmation of Mirko and Zlatko's performance from Velepromet made by Crevar Marko. And Crevar Marko is surprisingly accused of both us and Serbia, of their judiciary, but in what way? The indictment charged Crevar with being an ex-member of TO Vukovar in the Sremska Mitrovica Acceptant Centre during the trial tortured the war prisoners of two defenders in Sremska Mitrovica in the camp, and they did not recognise the camps but the collection centres. He's been charged with torture, and for taking these two away, someone wasn't doing their job. But I happened to get that information. And I'll have to speed it up, it's a short minute. Look at it this way. Dead cops in Borovo Selo, 12 cops. Name, last name, address. They're 12. Deadly locals in Borovo Selo of non-Serb nationality, 20 of them. Among them, Štefanić Bernardica and Štefanić Martina, grandmother and grandson of 5 years old. They were killed in '92 in their home. At the time of 92, the commander of the territorial defense headquarters was Radenko Allavanja, who probably had some control or didn't, but he was freed from our judiciary, and I was because of the mention and the press that I had laid down even a little stiff. Nor have I been transferred by the media, and some have said, "Don't accuse the defendant of being legally released," as you say, a war criminal in a public place so he doesn't sue you. Just so he sues me, I miss it. Chief of Staff of that Borov Sela defense. Dead prisoners in Borovo Village after the fall of Vukovar, 21 of them. 43 with the other side. Dead prisoners brought to Borovo Village from other regions of the Republic of Croatia. ... The three of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dead prisoners brought to Borovo Selo from other Erdut and Serbia areas. Imagine, those from Serbia bring people arrested in Serbia and kill them in our territory. Even your own. And then what happened was that the Croatian judiciary said, Mr. Pucelj of Vukovar, prisoner of war on 18.11., the police asked me for evidence against Mercep. They're not questioning him about what he found out in the camp while he was in Sremska Mitrovica with... than he knows about Merchep. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why didn't you ask him what he knew from the camp? What did he hear, what did he see? It doesn't matter to anyone. It's important that Mercep can be wrong. And that's what he says, on 18.11.1970, he was born, on 18.11., and he celebrated his birthday on the fall of Vukovar. Imagine how nice he was. Itd., etc. For all of this in Borovo Selo, he said, tortured wounded Croatian police officers in Borovo Selo, sentenced to 3.5 years, down to 3 because of the old mother, a difficult financial situation. We've found all the modes of Mercep to mistake the command responsibility. For incendiary. He hasn't stopped his comrades in weeks. And for this, we found no severe circumstance for 83 killed in the school of the elementary school of Bozidar Maslaric in the center of the village. Not one. And for the one who was released, there was an excuse, that in the incriminating time JNA had control over that area, forgetting that Štefanićka and her grandson were killed in 92, and those who were killed from 91 to the fall of Vukovar and in peaceful reintegration. And why did I tell the controllers of the past, the present and the future? Because I'm looking at him right now and I know what he's gonna say in his show. One of the controllers of the past who moved at the time of the Ivica Racan suspension of the Commission for the Research of Victims of War and Porage II. Holy shit. The war. So as not to find out what Roman Lejak writes in his book about which research took place by drilling the terrain in 64. What are the results in Jasenovac and Gradina? Controlling the past for one reason only. So we can still have today's mantra, lie, cheat and keep us on a short chain. Unwarranted. For what purpose, it's clear to me, I don't know if you understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136351	We have two replicas on your exhibit, first mate Pernar, here's a colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136352	Honorable MPs, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Culey, you quoted at the beginning of your speech the song of Miroslav Skora, the truth is the water deep, these verses, however, just returned Miroslav Skoro's recent ID to the HDZ member, saying that simply that HDZ's policy cannot be supported. He says like this, I saw that the policy of caring for the common good has become a concern for its own breakthrough and the care of political like-mindeds. Next, people move out of Zagora, like and Zagreb. People got their hands on apathy, and that's terrible. It's not normal for me, and I think anyone who's normal has some problems. He said Skoro, alluding to Prime Minister Plenkovic, who insists that it is a normal process and that that is why we have joined the EU. Mr. Culey, more people have left Croatia because of HDZ politics than because of Serbian aggression Intruder Hajdash Doncic, weather. [[Thank you. and then you wonder what the problem is for the Croatian people. .../]] Answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136354	Comrade Pernar, I will commend you, you and my son went to Germany last year. You know why? Because the past could not be controlled in a true way, but because those who controlled the past managed to catch all their families and descendants in Croatia. That's why all of ours are gone, because of those economic and political creators, and HDZ's book, I think you did, too. And I, wherever I sit and with which book I'm going to try to control the situation the way I know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136355	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136356	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culey, you mentioned the missing in Boro's Village, 83 of them were never tried to find. Let's think of the murdered Rabbit, of course, that no one can justify it, but everyone's up to find it. These 83 weren't co-workers. He was their associate, and that's why they looked for him and found him. Why in Croatia the judiciary didn't do some things, we can only assume that. I don't think they didn't know, I don't think they didn't want to, I don't think they weren't professional, but they didn't want to, of course. The truth comes from 45 to 95 goes in a very, very difficult way. Of course, if all the truth were to be cast out, this country, Croatia would be quite different. She'd be both legal and fair, and polite and never our children would go out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136357	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136358	A little correction. In 83, they were killed in Borovo Selo, and among them are those who have disappeared. But why is the truth not determined? Consider just one example of cooperation and how the truth is twisted. So Veljko Malic is wanted by Gojko, Gornja Obrežje, Pakrac, a Serb war victim and porno in the territory of Croatia and the former Republika Srpska Krajina in the period from 90th to 98th, a questionnaire on the victim and says this: "And indeed Malić Veljko 57th from Gornji Obrežje, a member of the SAO Krajina Special Militia, committed suicide. Selection 17. 1. 94. Event log in SM Okucani, page 272, page 281. Stored in the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War of the Republic of Croatia." This is the truth of the Sava Strbec in which they falsify history.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136359	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Zeljko Raguž. Here you go, Comrade Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136360	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law ahead of us is a major step in this area in the Republic of Croatia which has sublimed all the experiences that have so far been gained through the work of the Administration for Detained and Missing in the Republic of Croatia, but also the experience of neighbouring countries that regulated this area by the laws, Bosnia and Herzegovina 2004 and Serbia 2012. They also had bodies similar to the Republic of Croatia that acted before the law was passed. Today we could hear that we are dissatisfied with the results of the work of the Department for Detained and Missing in the Republic of Croatia, as we could hear that we are dissatisfied with the effects of the work of various commissions that have dealt with research and World War II in the Republic of Croatia. These are non-serious assessments which do not respect scientific research in this area and which do not appreciate very complex, complex work in this area and in the Republic of Croatia and in neighbouring countries. In fact, it would be worth the story of this area in a way that takes into account the fact that peace in war-affected areas is the greatest value to be maintained, nurtured, developed with the peoples and states with which the conflict occurred. If we have heard more than once today that examples of France and Germany are good examples for European Union countries, then the consequences of war in the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries should also be approached with that principle. Of course, this will certainly not produce the results some expect, but compared to the facts of the number of missing after World War II and in similar wars, it can certainly be concluded that the results of the work of the Directorate for Detained and Missing Republic of Croatia are impregnable and that it should continue in this direction. The key assumption of greater effects in this area is that cooperation with competent institutions is not only in the Republic of Croatia, but also in neighbouring countries, of course, by encouraging and using tools that are otherwise used in international relations so popularly referred to as "the carrot tool", "the beating tool", so I will not repeat myself because there has been enough talk about it. But the key criterion that needs to be taken into account is equal access to all war victims in both the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries, but also equal access in another important area that is also crucial to the consequences of the war and which contributes to bringing reconciliation to the processing of war crimes. We were able to hear in the Croatian Parliament yesterday a one-sided approach that led to one lecture, so where the victims stand out on one side, the Bosniak side is at the same time out of sight, referring to Serbian victims, whether it was BiH or the Republic of Croatia, and also not to Croatian victims at exactly the locations used in yesterday's presentation of counterpart Mrsic. In fact, we Croats in BiH have compassion for all victims regardless of whether they were on the Croatian, Serbian and Bosniak sides, but we consider it inappropriate to highlight Ahmic's victims, 116 victims with whom we sympathise, and not to have in mind and not to know the fact that in the municipality, in Vitez, in central Bosnia, in the war of 1993. 653 persons of Croatian nationality also died. So without that equal access to the victims, he has no trust, he has no reconciliation, nor is it worth speaking on public occasions as well as here in HS because it only contributes to further escalation of mistrust, or even to the development of hatred. If access to this area in a political way, as it was done yesterday in HS, then we cannot expect results in collaboration with neighbouring countries. Our friends, therefore, are those in BiH who view the effects of the war in BiH in the same way as those who approach the victims. I appreciate that it is also needed in the Republic of Croatia. The institutions of the Republic of Croatia dealing with the issues of war in the Republic of Croatia have certainly done a lot and can also be examples to neighbouring countries. I am optimistic that in the next period there will be more results in the area of missing people, if some of the principles I mentioned were applied in practice, in the work of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia because this issue is interdisciplinary and implies the cooperation of several ministries and more state institutions. I also believe that the political public in the Republic of Croatia recognises the politicisation and that we have listened to today in HS where a number of colleagues are working on this complex issue, a difficult issue, so the question of missing persons, is being passed down to some imagined body of their own. This is not necessary in this regard, but I also appreciate and welcome all those assessments that have been made in the direction that this law needs to be reached by consensus and that this issue exceeds politicising and political debate among parties in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. In this direction, it is certainly necessary to stress that it is good that the law introduces sanctions and infringements for persons who show no elemental cooperation, not only in the direction of seeking the missing, but also in the sense of respecting the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. It would also be good to consider a second reading with a concrete proposal for measures to encourage people to cooperate in terms of rewards that contribute to the search for missing in the Republic of Croatia and to develop cooperation with countries and institutions of other neighbouring countries that can also contribute to the resolution of missing issues in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136361	Thank you. We have two replicas, first colleague Bozo Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136362	Thank you. So, colleague Raguž, you have, therefore, in a very good way pointed out the importance, therefore, of respecting all the victims, therefore, which in the Republic of Croatia according to all the missing, but also of cooperating with neighbouring countries in a way that all the victims, so to speak, and all the missing are known to their families. On the other hand, the Homeland War, therefore, Croats in these areas are inseparable both when it comes to the Republic of Croatia and when it comes to BiH and, therefore, it pains the fact that it is here in HS, which due to ignorance, which, due to bad intentions, is actually being evaluated in different ways or evaluated by the victims of Croats in BiH. I'll just remind here of 21 prisoners from the Camp in Bugojn who's known who took them, but it's not known where, or how they ended up. The fate of General Shantic is unknown, so everything are those things here [[Intruder: Time]] They're a little familiar. [[Intruder: Thank you]] On the other hand, other things stand out. [[Aggression: A colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136363	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136364	I will repeat what I have said, therefore, by estimating both Serbian and Bosniak and Croatian victims' contributions to peace in BiH, but the same way can be approached by the question of victims and missing in the public of the Republic of Croatia. So all those who call on the principles of humanism when they highlight the victims on one side must be prepared and familiar with the victims on other sides, and then we will contribute to peace and cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136365	Here you go, pal Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Comrade Raguž, you have well pointed out a whole series of elements related to it and I agree with you that the criticism that it has not been done is not really standing. It's a very complex task and it seems to me that he's going in the right direction, it'll probably take a long time and require the cooperation of the other side. But what I would point out is that in this area it was made incomparably more than in another area that would also be very important for peace, stability in the Republic, which is the area of the victims of World War II and right after World War II where there is an incredible imbalance in where science is not left at all to assess the objective number of victims of one, the other, the third, whatever sides It's what myths are created about. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] To this day. [[I'm a friend of mine, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136367	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136368	... Missing in Victims II. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Holy shit. The war, it's also done a lot. There was no talk about it today, but certainly this dimension of the success of the Office's work on prisoners and the missing fact to be highlighted in HS and not to be made in the political public of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to victims II. Holy shit. The war mentioned in public and in the work of the Department of Detained and Missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136369	Thank you. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136370	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Raguž, you have described well and called that this law really should not be politicized, but should be adopted unanimously in this HS to contribute to the further discovery of missing persons, the satisfaction of those victims, but also, you have mentioned the breaking provisions that are... apply to both natural and legal persons and natural persons in legal persons who will not supply data or hide data, so I believe that those who were camp organisers, enemy organizers, rebel organizers, and know and have information and do not want to go out with them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like, in the case of Dr. Schreter, the camp in... As well as a number of other sites where terrible sacrifices occurred, it is necessary to consider before this law is passed and clearly show where they were buried or where they were buried. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The ones they executed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136371	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136372	So I consider these infringements to be the most valuable part, therefore in the bill, which will certainly encourage other institutions in the Republic of Croatia that are interdisciplinaryly involved in resolving the issues of missing and the application of these infringements, will also encourage individuals in the Republic of Croatia to show a greater degree of co-operation with the competent state institutions in seeking the missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136373	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136374	We will now return to the point, and this is the Proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War for an individual debate, and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136375	Thank you, dear Vice President. I think this law interferes with two things that actually have nothing to do with each other. The question of the missing is the humanitarian issue, and it certainly needs to be addressed. That's primarily a diplomatic question. It's a question for the foreign minister, not for the defence minister, because I doubt the defence minister can do much about it. It's a matter of diplomacy, it's a matter of the President of the Republic, it's a matter of the Prime Minister and it's a matter of foreign ministers to contact another country next door with which we were at war to resolve the issue of missing persons. It can, it requires the other side. So it is not true that only Croatia is asking Serbia to resolve the missing, but also Serbia is asking Croatia to resolve the issue because the fate of around 700 Serbs killed in the Homeland War is unknown. I do not believe that Croatia has any interest in the truth about these 700 missing persons. I just can't believe it. I believe he doesn't know about their fate, that he can't trace their deaths, or where their bodies ended, because it's obvious that all these missing people are long dead on either side. Therefore, it is a humanitarian and diplomatic issue. Secreting the fate of the missing is a barbaric act completely incomprehensible. That's proof of the lack of any kind of pie. So I'm going to answer right now, and I'm going to talk to my colleagues, Ragujo, who attacked me here. You know that any of those criminals from Knights and other places who killed Croatian children came here to give a lecture, I would speak the same thing about this pay phone. So, killing someone, now in a soldier war or killing a civilian is a different thing. But those missing, those dead people, I'm saying that their fate is revealed as far as possible and that these data are exchanged as possible. So, according to the rule of this law, given that Serbs also demand 700 of their Croatia could never enter the European Union, ever, until it resolves the issue of all these missing. It has entered because it is not a criterion for entering the European Union. The interest of Croatia is to move the borders of the European Union to the east, to enter both Bosnia and Herzegovina, to enter Serbia, to enter Macedonia, that is also an interest, Kosovo to enter it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Well, because the market would expand, at least to the area of the former Yugoslavia. Otherwise, we will remain among the worst in Europe, and only two countries are worse than Croatia in the European Union per GDP. We are at the bottom, rather than being guided by our own interest that this, that the European Union is expanding to the east to increase its market, that we have where to export our products we are threatening not to allow them to enter. We're working against our own interests. What does the genius Dežulovic say about it? How does he describe Croatia? The country with the most beautiful coast in Europe earns from tourism as much as Austria does from Mozart balls. A country with the most fertile country east of the Danube that imports food from Republika Srpska. The land with a centuries-old tradition of shipbuilding and maritime development has long passed states that have not even been discovered when the Dubrovnik galleys sailed the oceans. The country whose wines were drank by Julius Caesar and Francis Joseph, and today he buys good wines in Slovenia. The country whose fishermen covered half of the world’s Sardine market, today the imports from Morocco shone. After all, the country with the first mass anti-fascist movement in the world is just an impeccable half-fascist country like... ... froma standoffininLeipzig. [[You don't understand.]] So, what are we talking about today? How to prevent a neighbor from entering the European Union? What's in our national, national interest? We give 4 million kuna to the Bridge Hospital and a billion kuna to the Catholic Church, and citizens must raise money for the treatment of sick children. I wonder how much Kaptol gave for this sick little Mile for which the citizens were raising money. Have you ever heard of money being collected in socialism to treat sick children? No, I don't. They were being treated. One who could not be treated in Croatia was treated for state costs, for HZZO costs abroad. But that shame, that shame of socialism did not allow. Four million for a bridge hospital there is, a billion for the Catholic Church is to organize lectures of war criminals, for that it is, but for sick Mila is not. This citizens must collect 10 or 20 kuna as much as they can, it is Croatia today. That's what this law is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136376	Thank you. We've got more replicas. The first is the respected MPs Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136377	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, I do not agree that the issue of the missing in the Homeland War is just a humanitarian issue because we were not at war as you say, but Croatia was attacked by Serbia and the JNA and we all know it well and we can't speak so casually. It's not just a humanitarian and diplomatic question, as you say. This is, among other things, a humanitarian and diplomatic issue, but at this point it's less important. And I don't support a speech that undermines aggression on the Republic of Croatia and reduces victims. Why? Well, because by verifying these traits of the country and all of this, we're actually earning ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136378	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136379	It is a humanitarian question and it is a civilization issue because, as I said only barbarians, only barbarians don't respect the dead and even when they were on the opposing side and even when they were aggressors. Go to Miroga. You have a cemetery arranged for a Wehrmacht soldier a large cemetery with marked names. It wasn't made. It was built before the '90s. It was made during socialism. Why? Because it's understood as a humanitarian question. They were aggressors. They died here but were properly buried with marked graves. Why? Because we were acting civilized.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136380	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Raguža.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136381	You don't have the same criteria. There's a lecture that bothers you. The public matter is, you could have known this after two commanders of the Bosniak army of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army were sentenced at The Hague Criminal Court as war criminals one of them commander of the 7th Muslim brigade was appointed in 2012 as president of the Faculty of Political Sciences of Sarajevo and the Faculty of Natural-Mathematic Sciences. At the time, you and your party supported those in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political life against the legitimate representatives of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136382	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136383	I don't live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't come from there like you do. You were sent here to the Croatian Parliament from Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a return prize for how much Croatia gives Bosnia and Herzegovina in money it is you. If I lived there, I would rebel against it if any war criminal were to take any role in the country where I live. But it bothers me here that this is happening here in Croatia which is my country, that the popes are smitten when the Hague convict comes to Zagreb, they are smitten with it, because the shames of both the Catholic Church and me and my country. And you were supposed to rebel there against it, but you kept quiet, you kept quiet. You were probably looking at your own personal interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136384	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136385	Dear colleague Stazic, why did you propose to suspend the Commission for the Determination of War and Porec Victims that is issue number one? And are you familiar with the story of a public conversation from Podvinj at Slavonski Brod about the late priest Zivkovic who also disappeared in Podvinj after World War II, that's number two? And thirdly, the conclusion is that Tito was a great humanitarian especially towards the Germans he had driven out of Croatia to build Wermacht's soldiers a cemetery but with the money he received multiple times for war damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136386	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136387	Yeah, it's true. I was the legislator of the law to abolish the famous Vukojevic commission and that law was passed. Do you know why I suggested that this committee be abolished? Because she filed a report to the Parliament saying that 112 people died in Jasenovac, that was the conclusion of the commission. Such auditism as that Vukojevic's commission worked unheard, unseen, it wasn't any commission, none and she didn't investigate anything, she wrote a report full of lies, this report was insolent and this HS report did not accept, but accepted my bill that such a commission, the famous Vukojevic's commission, should be abolished. And I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136388	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of Stevo Culej. What's he hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136389	Art. The 238th insult of a respected commission to determine the victims of war and porn, and the commission came to the conclusion, as was the case in 46th, 50th and 64th. What's important is that I said [[Intruder: Art. In 238, don't talk about it, about insulting the commission, so...]] And you haven't explained the question to me. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136390	Please, like this, go on, just me asking you nicely, stick strictly to the subject and the proposal of the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War. It was beginning to talk about everything and everything, unfortunately, and insults etc., I pray you let's stick to the subject. ... Please, don't paint. [[The incursion from the Assembly is unheard of.]] Next replica of respected representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136391	Thank you. A respected colleague in this bill is two truths and two levels of truth. The first is individual truth and the second is historical. Individual truth mostly about every man stands in two sentences and two key concepts, which is that he was born and died and where he was born and where he died. This law gives each individual existence this very individual truth, and the historical truth is the truth about the Homeland War. The Homeland War is one of the valid acts of the Republic of Serbia and therefore it would be wrong for this law, as some have suggested, to be called upon by persons who have disappeared in the great Serbian aggression, would it mean that large- Serbian aggression is just an act of the Republic of Serbia or that it has some historical significance. There isn't. What is positive in the Republic of Croatia is the modern-day Homeland War, and the truth about individual victims, regardless of which side comes is in favor of the truth about the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136392	Dear Representative Stazic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136393	Well, I can't, but I totally agree with you, there's really an individual truth and there's a historical truth. The historical truth of aggression against the Republic of Croatia has undoubtedly been established, here we have nothing further to discuss, but the issue of individual truths must not be an obstacle, the weight of the Republic of Croatia to work against its own interests, which is why I think it is harmful. Individual truths about the missing will never be found out until the end, not because someone won't find out, but because it's impossible to determine, impossible, it's impossible to find every victim. Unfortunately, it is so, I wish it were possible, but because of the inability to determine these individual truths no harm should be given to the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136394	The next replica of the respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136395	My fellow Stazic, after your toxic speech, it would take me a lot more time than I can afford to detoxify the public space. But I'll only say two things. First, the historical truth is that the Republic of Serbia has been a victim of large-scale aggression, so it is inappropriate to place it in the same plane when it comes to the EU, the Republic of Serbia as regards the missing, but all missing, regardless of religion and nation, should be treated in the same way. On the other hand, Mr. Stazić, the Mostar hospital also treats Croatian children, including those from the Republic of Croatia. A colleague of Stazic, Mostar University is also educated by Croatian children, including more than 20% of Croatian citizens. And as for, therefore, the crimes in Central Bosnia, therefore, one legitimate action has depraved into one of the crimes in Ahmics for which both direct perpetrators and under command responsibility have been convicted. But for the crimes in Križancev village, Buha's houses, the Knight where the children were killed on the playground, people were not convicted, and that thing should also be mentioned here, not forgotten and ignored.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136396	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136397	So what do I have to do with these criminals not being convicted? Well, they should have been tried in BiH where you came from. Did you file criminal charges against them, there in the Bosnian-Herzegovina court, did you or did you not? You didn't, because it's one thing to be elected to BiH, to come here to HS and salt my mind, and the other to act where you don't act, and where you should act because every criminal, regardless of which side he deserves to be tried and punished, and don't do it to me, don't insinuate me that I'm defending someone's crimes, is repugnant to me, and every criminal should be convicted, but that's your thing, your lover, not mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136398	The next replicas, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136399	Dear counterpart Stazic, I cannot agree with your estimates that the Republic of Croatia is interested in extending the EU to Serbia, i.e. Croatian interest if Serbia democratisations, if it establishes European rule of law, if it brings criminals to justice, if it deprives victims, then Croatian interest can be the accession of Serbia to the EU, in no other case. If you believe that this is not the case with Vucic, that no European legal norms should be established, that criminals should not be brought to justice, that there should be no damage to the victims and that this is why I should applaud them and wish that such a Serbia enters the EU, you will not get it from me, Mr Stazic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136400	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136401	When and what kind of Serbia will join the EU, EU members will decide and must make a unanimous decision, and I assure you that you overestimate yourself. If Croatia is the only country that opposes it will not be, it will not be, because Croatia has learned to worship the EU, Croatia has passed laws under EU directives, Croatia has not been an independent country since its entry into the EU, Croatia is working on the EU dictatorship, and it will work on the dictatorship in this matter. And you, if you think your voice is going to mean something to you, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136402	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, Secretary of State, Assistant, Associates, here in this individual debate I would like to stress that so far there is no unique and comprehensive legal framework that this definition, colleague Stazic, could have stayed with you and something in an individual debate. Searching for missing persons, going to which cemetery may have been preorated, means searching for missing persons so far has been done and a good and big job has been done, but it is important and should be regulated by the legal framework so that our neighbours and neighbors know that there is a legal framework in the Republic of Croatia that draws on the possibilities of cooperation, detection and dignity of persons who have disappeared in the Homeland War, whether soldiers, civilians, aggressors or anyone else. I believe that with the legal framework proposed by this House, we will certainly establish cooperation that has been defined through specific criteria and criteria that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have put before the European Commission in the 7th month for the opening of Chapter 23, 24 for negotiations with the Republic of Serbia. And the Republic of Serbia will not close negotiations in those chapters until these defined, special rules and criteria are met. This is clear to every one of the normal representatives, representatives of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers or Ministers, Prime Minister, State and all others. Yes, we allowed it because only negotiations, talks and cooperation can solve this humanitarian and human issue. This tragedy of people who have experienced suffering in this war can certainly be solved and the key to the solution lies in most parts in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. We communicate clearly and loudly. They haven't shown up until now, they haven't shown enough hearing, that this issue opens up more intensively, solves, they've been subject to fraud and deception many times, which we can't allow and we can't shut up. The necessity and need requires that parents who are still alive and relatives of their missing and dead are buried with dignity. This law allows this, which provides for all the authorities of the state administration to work on the issue, are equally defined and the areas to be covered, through these areas it is clear that the collection and processing of data and archive construction of missing persons is an integral part of this law. Keeping records of missing persons, gathering knowledge of the fates of missing persons and possible grave sites, exploring hidden mass and individual tombs, and exhumation of post-mortem remains and hidden and registered graves in cooperation with relevant entities. Keeping records of all designated sites of mass and individual graves, processing of the identification of postmortem remains and funerals and permanent dignified care, keeping records of all identified victims, cooperation with the competent authorities of other countries and international organisations, competent authorities for the implementation of the law and their work. These are the activities that are defined by this law. Equally, 11 state bodies and ministries are covered by this law that must be involved in and for them there are provisions that are infringing. I must also point out that today there is a signed cooperation between judicial authorities, state-level law enforcement authorities, as well as police services that should be, as well as our secret services that should be able to access data through cooperation, but this delivery is unsuccessful. Given that fact, this law is a necessity and a need and comes, I mean at the right time, even though it may have been before. But what's there is. I would like to stress that the cooperation of our judicial bodies so far has not yielded sufficient fruit to account for the missing and imprisoned. As well as the victims. We domestics who swear today that it's a humanitarian right, that it's human, etc., are many times witnesses and know of certain victims, alluding here to Dr. Šretera, Camp Bučevnik is not understood./... for which I have personally made clear many times who was the founder of the rebellion in western Slavonia, who was the founder of the camp in Bučje, who must know if for anyone else for Dr. I'm sure Schretter did. That's what I was saying to the state's attorneys who didn't consider it. And in that bush, I think there's also a rabbit, and now we're going to try to force them to work even more up-to-date, to be in the form of operational actions to find out the truth about the missing and the prisoners. When some say this is a question for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not for the Ministry of Croatian Defence, they do not know the formation of the Croatian Defence Ministry, which includes the search service for missing persons, and there is an assistant who heads the service. And clearly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a role to play, but it cannot run this particular business in this area and part as is run by the Croatian Defence Ministry. When they are called that they have humanely and dignifiedly buried the enemy soldiers who occupied the former Yugoslavia, I must remind a fellow who escaped from the assembly that the German cemetery has been overstretched. Is that human? Is that human? Is that human? That's the worst thing that could have happened from the Communist party and the Partisan army. I must also point out that all the forces tried to hide all the crimes that took place and the brushes who shaved their beards and took off their gambling were translated into partisans and received them into the Communist party. It's the truth about their humanity, it's the truth about the Quislins that are also with the aggressor and in this Second World War as well as now become prominent members of certain parties. Therefore, I think that this commendable law that comes before us and this House of Commons and should be adopted unanimously and not by such politicisation of individuals who should not actually appear in the Croatian Parliament since they are supporters of those thesis that have not completed the work of '45. They're their intentions. He was supposed to be convicted for this, he was supposed to be the one who was called for the spread of hate, for calling for murder, that state's attorney's office did not take it accordingly and did not prosecute Mr. Stazic for such facebook announcements that the job was not completed in '45. A year. I don't know who they're protecting, why? We're all facing the law as equals, but there are more equal ones. This is a clear indication of his appearance today, how much insolence, insolence, shame, inhumanity he uses for these people who are missing in the Republic of Croatia. And so, clearly in this individual debate, I had to touch these questions that intertwine through the heads of those who neither the Homeland nor the Homeland War respect but consider it to be their stepmother and not their mother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136404	Here we have one replica, the respected representative of Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go. ... They're not, uh... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here we go. Let's just finish this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136405	The esteemed colleague, following the course of this debate, is unfortunately not the impression that some MPs prefer not to be called the Croatian Parliament but that we still belong to some past names and to some previous state. Instead of loudly praising this quality law here, to praise the Ministry of Defence and the Resolute Minister for bringing it finally after as many years as we have been waiting for this law, we unfortunately have once again witnessed the disgrace, the debauchery, the devastation of the Homeland War and all the victims. We almost can't believe we're listening to this in the Croatian Parliament, a lot of people were waiting for this law and we finally welcomed it and we didn't deserve this level of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136406	The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136407	Thank you very much. Well fellow, it's clear that in this law everything is precise for those who want to read. It shows everything, which is state bodies and ministries, including the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, competent judicial authorities, county state attorneys and courts, security intelligence agency, state administration, scientific and medical institutions, Croatian Red Cross Society and others. All activities in the search process are co-ordinated by the Ministry of Croatian Defence or the Department of Detained and Missing whose work is also prescribed by the Internal Design Regulation of the Croatian Defence Ministry. And that's what the former Croatian Defence Minister says is that something doesn't seem to be right, that it was probably better when he did it. I mean, those are the horrors they're experiencing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136408	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136409	Thank you. Honorable ministers, respected representatives of the ministry. I'd like to get here before I start discussing an interesting detail. In fact, Croatian Defence Minister Sucic's assistant confirmed before the Croatian public that Serbia is not working at all to determine the fate of the missing and thus publicly disputed Mrs. Pejcinovic-Buric's inventions of positive developments, as she said in co-operation with Serbia. So it's not often that we have a lower rank of officials or officials with their professional approach to the untruth of a minister who is in a higher position and for whatever reason I have to commend the gentleman here, but from this commendation, neither of the fact that the gentleman has told the truth, Croatian victims, families of the missing, families of Croatian victims have any use. I have already pointed out in the replica itself that Minister Pejcinović-Burić, by not calling the commission for which there is a valid government decision and which has been missed in two years already seven times, I think he speaks enough about the relationship and whether such an approach can be systematically monitored whether Serbia is implementing the criteria set out in Chapter 23 and 24. I also said in the replica that Tuesday was supposed to be a hearing in Belgrade. 16 Sotina families have filed a lawsuit against Serbia, are asking for compensation, their lawyer pays for Natasa Kandic, not the Croatian state, that is your relationship with Croatian victims. It is clear that this law is one attempt to at least create an illusion before the election and counterpart Djakic said here in his presentation, says so, so Mr Djakic says, that he will not allow it, I wrote down what he said, allowing Chapter 23 to be closed to Serbia if the criteria are not met. Mr. Djakic, the families should not and must not wait for the moment of the closure of Chapter 23, the families of the missing cannot wait. At this point, we can and we have mechanisms to get Serbia to start cooperating, but that government you're supporting doesn't do, you who have obstructed the Vukovar protest, which you've been here for days I've watched you call and return the buses that are headed for Vukovar, but you haven't, you haven't quite succeeded, no matter what you've done to enlist Andrej Plenkovic. Also, the question arises why in this law and what a colleague here mentioned is not at all true, the Homeland War is the Homeland War, it is the foundation of Croatian statehood, but if we are talking about the cause of missing persons, it is a huge Serb aggression and it would be much more logical to call the Law on Missing Persons because of great Serb aggression, it is quite logical. Why are we afraid to mention this law in any place of great Serbian aggression? Is this your colleague Djakic? Is that the Minister of the Bear Defense, perhaps your coalition partners? Is it possible your coalition partner in Brussels, Mr. Vukic, who is in the same political family as HDZ, is defending you? What is the reason not to mention in this law great-serb aggression? What is here, so I was curious about how I am a fellow Stazic, so I totally broke it, the man talks here that the Republic of Croatia, that it is the interest of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU, and I tell him that it is not the interest of the Republic of Serbia to enter the EU, that Serbia must be democratisation, that it must accept certain legal norms, that it must bring the criminals to justice, that it must depreciate the victims and then change the story, rise and say, so there is nothing you can do about it. How can nothing be done? How could Slovenia have done something? So now he no longer agrees that any Serbia should join the EU, but now says you can't do anything. How could others have done something? How could Greece do something about Macedonia, Slovenia around the Republic of Croatia? Only when it comes to the Republic of Croatia and Croatia's interests, then nothing can be done. There is nothing to be done because we have politicians like Mr. Stazic and we have politicians like Minister Pejcinović-Buric and we have politicians like Andrej Plenkovic, we have no politicians who fight for Croatian interests. Why did Prime Minister Plenkovic run into me here at HS? The story of anemia was just a drop that spilled the glass, he was already visibly upset because I proved on the arguments that this government is working in favour of Serbian interests, violates its valid decision, does not call a commission to be notified once a year by the president of the Republic of Croatia about what the commission did, it upset the prime minister. The fact that he protects his acquaintances and friends from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, these are serious problems that we are facing, and I can believe that the intentions of Minister Bear are good and positive, I have no reason to suspect that man is not in the interest of all victims being compensated, to find missing, man was in the Homeland War, his desire to do so may be much bigger than mine, he was sharing trenches with those people, but those who make decisions, and it is not certain Minister Medved, it is primarily Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, so they do not, or work. Remember how the chapters were opened, during the technical government, when the HDZ broke down, when Prime Minister Oreskovic was already shot down, Minister Kovac opened the chapter. You know what happens the same day? On the pages of the Ministry of Justice, Justice Minister Ante Šprlje, then announces that he disagrees with the opening of these chapters by himself-initiative Minister Miro Kovac, but at least once he has done what he has done, he has decided to set up a commission to monitor the implementation of these criteria in Chapters 23 and 24. And what does this government do? He's breaking his mind. If there is no need for a commission, here is Minister Medved, you initiate a cabinet session, tell the prime minister, can be telephoned and decide that there is no need for a commission to oversee Serbia, but do not violate a valid government decision. What message do you send to Croatian citizens if you are in violation of the current rulings of the Republic of Croatia? I am told by the fact that you do not want to abolish this commission, and that it does not meet at the same time, it is very worrying, tells me that this commission is important and that you do not want to abolish it because you are aware of the possible political consequences, but at the same time for what reasons Minister Pejcinović-Buric, who, we must not forget, worked for the Serbian government, was also an adviser to Serbian Prime Minister Dacic, does not call the commission. Imagine what you're doing being done by the SDP government? That the SDP government had a minister who worked for Serbian Prime Minister Dacic and that the minister did not call on a committee to monitor Serbia and that the decision was in force, no one removed it. Do you understand what you're doing? What's the government you're sitting in, dear Minister Bear? And what does the government that you respected MPs, colleagues Djakic and others support? I don't think this can be justified, that this can't be justified and that the Republic of Croatia has to be busy getting all the victims' compensation, that all the missing are found and that Serbia really is a legal state, that kind of Serbia can join the EU, and then that can be the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136410	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136411	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. In your debate, you said that Mr. Kovac, who had just entered, opened his own chapter with Serbia, and Mr. Sprlje, then the minister of justice, strongly opposed it. But Mr Kovac did so under Serbia's promise to put aside the Law on Serbia's regional jurisdiction for war crimes, which he also covered. Do you have any idea whether such a withdrawal of the law has taken place or whether it is still in force? And if he's still in power what does that tell us about the credibility of this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136412	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136413	So, to counterpart Klisovic, of course nothing has been done on this issue, that counterpart Kovac went into one initiative, and without getting clear guarantees and I even said here something that goes in favor of Minister Kovac, when he has already messed up, a man has founded a commission, but what does the Government do now? That commission that should correct his mistake, and that commission doesn't summon this government, do you realize what they're doing? So they don't even want to get their former minister out of an awkward situation where he opened this chapter and set up a committee that should follow what Serbia does or doesn't do, and now they don't even call that commission. That says enough what kind of politics it is, I don't even know what the reasons for this government's decisions are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136414	The next replica of the respected representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136415	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have already praised the work of Minister Bear and his associates for producing this very good bill. Mr. Grmoya, you obviously don't understand the functioning of the government, you have no idea, unfortunately. The Prime Minister was Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic, I was a member of the Croatian Government, the truth that I initiated because you had no idea about it, nor Mr. Sprlje, it was made by HDZ's part of the Croatian government, I fought there, we installed the criteria that today apply to Serbia, for all EU member states, I repeat, for all EU member states, and now you're getting out that we've messed up, we've done a big thing, and if you don't know how the government works and that was Mr. Petrov's Vice-President of the Government, please don't do it nicely, it's insulting to a healthy mind, I'm sorry to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136416	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136417	Dear colleague Kovac, you've told me all the truth and given me every possible argument and I thank you. The HDZ part of the government pushed it through, as you said, you were the initiator, and Minister Sprlje opposed it and announced it, he has no idea, and Serbia is still doing what he wants. So, our campers, our people, our families are suing themselves, and you say he has no idea, Mr. Sprlje, and you have no idea what you're allowing Serbia to do. We have no idea because we are fighting for Croatian interests, and you work for Serbia... [[Mr. Kovac's intrusion: You have no idea.]] Don't yell from the bench, please. [[Mr. Kovac's incursion is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136418	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136419	238th Insulting MPs, so, working for Serbia, shame on you, any fellow Grumoja, you're a demagogue, you have no idea, I'll sue you for telling me, is that clear? I won't be told by Grumoja that I work for Serbia, understand? I'll just say for the Republic, shame on you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136420	Please, let's not talk that way, it's not worthy of parliament. Comrade Thunderbolt, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136421	Dear Vice President, you can see that I am very calm, my colleague Kovac has injured an officer. 238, said we had no idea, and I admitted that he initiated the opening of the chapter. with Serbia, until Serbia fulfils its obligations at the same time [[/Intruder: It is the same, it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Comrade Kovac, you're nervous because you're in pain, because you're in pain in the HDZ truth, you're working [[/Intruder: It's not the same.]] for his coalition partners for Mr. Vukic, who is with you in the European People's Party. [[/Intruder: It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136422	It's also not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you nicely not worthy, not worthy of this home in this way to communicate. And I'm sorry, I mean, what you said wasn't nice, either, but please, let's not do that. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, he is not there, he is losing his right to speak, and will be individually spoken by respected representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136423	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Ministers with Associates. By passing a missing persons law, of course, we all have to support it, and we think that this law is one of the better laws to date, but by looking at and observing the situation in 25 years, 30 of the war, of course I'm an agent and a citizen who's not been involved in politics, I'm not satisfied so far and looking at these mothers who are waiting for 1900 missing people who still don't know their graves, I wonder, and I want to tell the public why we've been waiting so many years for something and the truth never comes out? I must regret to say that we Serbia are trying to look through our fingers and they have so far felt no remorse at all about all the crimes of the '90s. '95. the year they committed in Croatia. Of course our foreign ministers who had been working with them that it was very difficult for them because everything we asked for, they obstructed, so I'm not surprised that this debate here in the Parliament where we're trying to argue who's better, who's worse and we're not going to tell anyone the truth that Serbia doesn't want to say that, that Serbia doesn't want to do that, of course, which we are fighting about in the Parliament on Chapter 23, 24,... The prisons should not allow Serbia to enter in as the Slovenians have obstructed us so much to enter the EU and asked us for hair in the egg, so everything we asked for, what the Slovenians asked for, we should ask for three times as much from Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid this has been happening since '45. '95. Mr. here in this House and the truth in both the state and the former Yugoslavia, there is absolutely no truth. We Croatian would want the truth, all the truth. Since '45. '95. Why can't we get to the truth? Why don't we investigate if Slovenia and all the surrounding countries have explored the victims of the communist system, we tried that, and then we ended it and then we stopped doing that research. It's a shame that we stopped at it knowing that Tito or Tito's regime said he killed 500,000 people without a court and put 300,000 in jail. Then comes this unfortunate war where we Croats only suffer because we wanted our country, the one we wanted, the one we democratically allowed our citizens to plead whether they were for the Croatian state or not. Of course, there were 90% of people who wanted the Croatian state. What's going on, big-serb aggression, this all that's happened and what we're discussing today, I'm afraid today Vukovar, Bor's village, Skabrnja, Lovas, everything that's happened in the Croatian state is going very slowly. We need to know the same people who committed crimes and the truth is, they work in the Croatian police, they work in Croatian services, they work on Croatian borders and nothing happens to them. Listening to today's attacks on Kordic, who served his part of the prison, it is very important to say that the criminal is here in the Parliament, depending on which structure is seen and the criminals who are walking around Croatia today, di people point fingers, where women are raped, who are told to the public that this is happening, there is still nothing going on. They are, if we talk about it in the House, we insult them, we insult them because we speak the truth again and they do not insult us because they lie. I'm asking you right now why is this happening? So why? Someone sneaks over it if a normal man thinks, someone silently, we want to restore some peace with Serbia that I'm not against, I would like us to live all the nations and have to live an honest but true life. We never get to the truth, we're always at fault. It happened in BiH, my Posavina, where 200,000 people were expelled, where 5,000 were killed, where no one investigates. I wonder why? Where the Serb republic is recognised as a crime, here in Croatia it does not bother anyone, but nobody else, because it is a legitimately evicted Croatian people, so everything brings me back to what Mr. Stazic is, here he said you can't do, we can't do anything to Serbia. What's he talking about? Well, I guess he's part of this world, this Croatian state, where he's been receiving for 20 years, sitting here in the Assembly, and receiving Croatia's salaries neatly from these Croatian citizens, and then here from the assembly of insults. Well, that's a shame, so at least respect this Croatian state that he wanted, the people here wanted Croatia with 90%, I'm sorry for the few who didn't want to do these crimes that they committed in Croatia. We must open the truth, without truth we as Croats cannot move. Watch out Bleiburg is wrapped without a court, all the pits are without a court, how many priests were killed in Herzegovina without a court? They're the last criminals, Ustashas, no, they're the people who were killed without any excuse. Yes, for them it's all an uprising. You can imagine that today in this Croatian state after 30 years of a certain person, certain people, certain MPs, even more sadly, in this Croatian Assembly, insult Croatian citizens, disrespect Croatian citizens, take their income regularly, do not want this state, it is clearly seen and then asks the question until when will we do so. We know what happened in Boro's Village when that war started... It was down there, and nobody cares about it, and there's the same people who did it walking around in Vukovar and in Borov Selo. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everyone knows that, both in the police and in the government and in the court. I know that our court and justice and everyone and our foreign policy are hard to discuss when Serbs go there, they don't have a conscience or Bosnian crimes and crimes in Srebrenica, where they killed 8 and a half thousand innocent people, it's not a shame for them, it's not a shame, that truth doesn't have to come into question, nobody calls it out, I speak from the left, because they think it's all right and I'm afraid, if we continue in this kind of dialogue and this kind of leadership so far, I think this government is doing a good job, and I think this government wants something ahead of all the governments that are now. If we look at the economics, we do well, if we look at what happened now, and Plenkovic alone has banned the entry of the Serbian minister so that he can no longer provoke Croatian citizens in the Croatian country, which they have done for 20 years, which they have passed on to us, let's tell the truth about Bleiburg, the truth about Jasenovac, but the truth, not the lie. Whoever goes in the truth, they spit on him, those who sit on that side. Why can't that one come? He can't, gentlemen, because someone doesn't want to, and there's no progress without the truth. We can't go forward if we haven't told the truth. And the Ustasha crimes... It's all true, there's no running away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should apologize to everyone. Crime is a crime. And the crimes were committed. We have a crime. But we don't want to tell the truth. That's what I'm trying to say, when we're moved to the truth, when we talk about what's going on and what's going on, then we're going to have an advanced state. I end up saying that yet this today's government has so far made the most of all the governments that have ruled this country. Thank you, and I trust that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136424	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you to help me out a little bit, to understand some things on a psychological basis, how is it possible that someone would not accept such a proposal of the Missing Act? So the intensity is to be as effective as possible in finding the missing, and if someone in HS, we've heard some reactions, might be against it. How one can be against fenced EU standards means not only Croatia, the entire EU for the missing Serbia. So how can someone be against it, I don't understand? If you understand that it is bad that we have done the criterion that Serbia must meet that criteria in order to join the EU, and I hear from colleagues from Metkovic that it is bad. Maybe I'm wrong, if I am, please, Mr. Muscle, explain that to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136426	The answer of the respected MP, Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136427	Thank you, colleague Kovac. I hope, I mean, I don't hope, you're certainly not wrong. We want Serbia to enter the EU, we want true people who are honest in Serbia, who are not Chetniks, who are not declared a Chetnik mark to prevail in Serbia. But that's impossible, it's just impossible that the same representative of the Serbian state was in it and it's known, it's finally seen and it's even recorded. Therefore, it is difficult for us to cooperate with them, and the same ones who say this to you, unfortunately, is the only problem that Plenkovic fired them. And that's the problem. Then it's your fault, and you're not, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136428	Next replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mišić, it is good that you have come to this debate in a reasoned manner without political dismay, about the law, the great law by Minister Medved and which will certainly contribute to the faster discovery of missing persons and to helping the tragedy of a family who still today do not know about the fate of their missing. I'm, uh, so far the debate that I'm... as an attempt to be more visible in this election campaign, given that some of these parties do not cross the electoral threshold so through this law, through the tragedy of these people trying to show visibility here in HS and instead of going back to the core of this law, to talk about the law, we are very passionately discussing something that is really not the bill itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Speaking of Serbia, Serbia began negotiations of a total of three chapters five years ago, opened 16 of them and closed only 2 of them. It will be many more years for Serbia and even if it closes them, and does not meet the way Croatia has given it will not be able to... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136430	The answer of the respected MP, Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136431	My colleague Bačić, since I don't work, I'm not really a member of any party or HDZ or any other party, I can observe on the side like this. Of course, colleagues who want to go ahead of the election go together, I'm not in it, so this is what I'm saying. I think it's true, what you're saying, that some people want to show their Croatianism through a political game where they prove that they're the ones who care, and when they had a chance to worry, then, of course, they obstructed everything, of course, that the prime minister in that time, as they did, they ended up. I think you're right about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136432	The next replica of the respected representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136433	You're looking for the truth. There's no complete truth behind any war. In the battle for Stalingrad, Stalingrad attacked 740 thousand, an excuse in the battle for Stalingrad killed 740 thousand attackers, power 3. Reicha, Italy, Romania, Hungary and, of course, NDH. 110,000 soldiers have been captured... They weren't all Nazis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There were peasants, students, professors, carpenters, miners, writers, painters. Five grand back. Have you heard that Angela Merkel asks about the fate of 105 thousand missing German soldiers was in Moscow to celebrate Victory Day and said never Germany will be able to be grateful enough to the Soviet Union for liberating her in '45. years, and they were killed by the unfavorable, raped by the unfavorable. Now that's the difference between civilised Germany and this poor Croatian of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136434	The answer of the respected MP, Music. Just a moment, my colleague Bacic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt, what's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136435	Thank you, Mr. President, for hurting Article 238. Rules of Procedure, I think you should have told my fellow Stazic that at the moment he was the missing Croatian defenders who participated in the defence of the large-serb Chetnic aggression against Croatia equated with a fascist army that did not attack Stalingrad, it requires you to warn him, to warn him because this is something that has never been experienced in the Croatian Parliament, to equate the missing Croatian defenders with the fallen fascist soldiers in the battle for Stalingrad. You should be ashamed of your fellow intern.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136436	I estimate he's not hurt by business, and what anyone's saying goes to his soul. A colleague's check trail was broken by the Rules of Procedure? Please, let's not start arguing with the Rules of Procedure's injuries right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136437	Article 33, which speaks of the duties of the one who runs the session, forgive me for this, I never said this, a man invents, lies here in the assembly, and you don't give him a warning, a simple liar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136438	Please, let's calm down, first let's calm down, secondly in this assembly is so much lying and so much false talk so there are no warnings, therefore I ask you nicely please let's calm down and stop this struggle with the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which are not infringements of the Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna start really giving warnings. Uh, fellow Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136439	My friend Stazic, justifying crimes is a crime. You were talking about Stalingrad, it's a crime, it's a crime, it's a crime. So you need to know what you're saying. You said here in this assembly that '45. It's not over, you're not ashamed, you're ashamed. Shame on you as a parliamentary representative to say that '45. It's not over now that you're justifying crimes that Merkel didn't say.../incomprehensible/... which is her problem, is not a crime problem. Crime is always a crime, you need to know that. Tito confessed to his 500 thousand crimes, publicly said on television, and no one has yet called him a criminal, that the criminal is a criminal among 14 criminals in the world, and you want to get him out of the ashes. You won't, sir. Crime will come and justice will come. It won't be the way you think and how so far you've clouded all this cloudy water here in the Croatian state and tried and made this war Nothing. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136440	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136441	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, you have said this in the context of facing communist crimes as Slovenia did. Yes, you are right that Slovenia as an organized and entrepreneurial state has cleared up with that, and there is no problem with that, but also in that Slovenia, and you know it well, not a single Partisan monument, not one monument of folk-freedom battle, not raised to the air, nor is it leveled to the ground, nor do the Slovenians have any problems. Thus, Slovenian history deeply appreciates what the Partizan movement has done for Slovenia, namely 20% of today's territory of the Republic of Slovenia, thanks to this war and this movement. I think that in Croatia we could learn something and recognize that part of our history, rather than revise it in a completely banal way as we try in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136442	Thank you, the answer of the respected representative of Misic, I ask you all to stick to the topic which is both serious and how serious and how necessary to resolve, and that is missing in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136443	Knowing Slovenia, I am an associate with them and I know the Slovenians well, Slovenians want the truth, we do not want it. The Slovenians found Hood the pit and the rest of the pits and we know it. That's not what we were looking for, we tried to search for someone to close that story once and we dug up we put it somewhere in the attics, that the bones were standing in the attics. I wonder, the shame of the Croatian state, I say it openly, the shame that it is not investigated and not localized. They're innocent children, innocent people, people who had nothing to do with the war and porn about what happened in '45.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136444	The next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136445	Thank you very much, Mr. Misic, in his presentation in the end, you said you were giving your full trust to this government. Prior to that, you have hardly accused the same government, interior minister, police director and the Croatian police themselves of hiring war criminals who committed crimes against Croatian citizens. Well, give me an explanation of how then you give full trust to people who are in charge of a system that employs war criminals. One more thing, did you ask the minister and give him evidence, is there any evidence that Croatian police are really hiring war criminals who are committing crimes against Croats? Did you ask him a representative question, did you do anything in that direction? Once again how can you support a government that hides war criminals who commit crimes against the Croatian people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136446	The answer of the respected MP, Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136447	You see, when I look at politics and see that it's all a process, it means otherwise in such countries as ours and the former communists, and especially in the Yugoslav states, the former is very slow. Why do I trust this government? Well, here's the other day in Vukovar, some people who committed crimes have been arrested, and now they're on trial. Of course I have, and I've told certain people about it, and they're aware, I can't go through with all the parts of our ministry, who's obstructing it, I hope that someone will open it anyway, and it will come to a solution. I am not against Serbs as Serbs against those who have committed crimes in the Croatian state, I would like Serbia to be democratic, to be democratisation and that those who are now in power, Chetniks, and you have seen beautiful in BiH as well as organised in Serbia as a whole. It drags Serbia to the bottom, not forward. I personally want to live with all the nations, if we can't destroy the people, I'm aware of it, and I wouldn't want to. BiH is as Croatian as Serbian and Muslim. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136448	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must admit that I am a little surprised by the intense and debate of a fellow party member, the elite, is talking about that he is not a member of any party, but he supports the party in power, not the code is a member of the HDZ, but the code is the founder of the HDZ, which is about how it is set up. And on the other hand, our voters may not know that history, but the gentleman is a pure example of inconsistency in politics. So, chosen on the living wall list, and now people would say he's the founder of HDZ from the barracks. So, on this side, you always have to take care of how and what someone talks about and calls out the MPs who here five or six times in a row received the trust of the citizens of the party they remained loyal to, and not ran the first day they had the chance. And that's what you did, Mr. Muscle. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136450	The answer of the respected MP, Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136451	My dear colleague, unlike you, I have not entered this HS through the HDZ, nor through the SDP, I am not the ear of you, but since after the war. Mr. Misic did everything in his life when he was 40. You've entered this HS, and you've entered the service since you were 20 years old. and you are taking the budget of these Croatian citizens because Mr. Misic paid into the budget of these Croatian citizens and worked his whole life to come and God rewarded me to go inside. Why did I agree to the HDZ, in fact, Plenkovic's hand, it's not wrong for me, my conscience leads me in that direction, and I do it by conscience, not by similarity, I didn't join any party after all, and when we were, we raised the Living Wall, the Living Wall wouldn't be anywhere if it wasn't us, and so did the Most, if they wanted to admit and know who raised them, so now they all fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136452	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136453	I've waited until the last hundred to see you'll give him a warning since he insulted me several times. First he said I'm taking taxpayers' money, it's 238, I'm not in HDZ to steal, like it was in Fimi Media. I said that I was... yes, but he said that I was, that I was taking money from Croatian citizens. [[/Agreement: So all MPs are paid out of taxpayers' money, what are you talking about?]] Will you let me say mine? [[So everybody takes money because everybody gets paid, I don't see what it's an insult?]] Or will you take me half a minute? [[/Intruder: Be my guest.]] Which is why Mr. Vice President's warning, the man insulted me, said I've been here since I was 20, I've been elected, I'll tell you exactly in 2007, I was 33. So, the gentleman who was first elected on the Most list, then on the Living Wall, and then around the HDZ a little bit, he wouldn't, so he tells me to take it, so give up his salary to Muscle when you're so successful and rich. [[No, maybe I'll give you a warning because...]] When you're like that, give up your pay [[/Intruder: Good.]] Well, because you're lying. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[The incursion from the Assembly is not understood.]] [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You're lying. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The incursion from the Assembly is not understood.]] You're lying. [[Intruder: Please, you've exceeded your time]] Don't yell, calm down, come on. [[The incursion from the Assembly is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136454	No injured Rules of Procedure. We will now go to the closing statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives, now they will speak on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136455	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you, Mr. Secretary, and I will thank you, Mr. Misic, when you allow me to speak. It's about today when we had two disappearances. One of the disappearances discussed by this law, which is about missing persons in the Homeland War according to the Croatian citizenship criteria. Everything else is superfluous and everything else is exasperating and everything else is leading us to manifest our own historical or cosmic significance by some standard or party, or national, or religious, which is not in the spirit of this law. The bill says that every missing person in the Homeland War has the right to the truth, that the truth is the truth, unfortunately, about the end of that person's life now unknown to us, about the place where the remains of that person who is now irrelevant rest. We don't discuss historical matters, we don't discuss historical truths. The historical truth has already been told, this law is not the law of futurism of the Republic of Serbia and that we are now reading about what will happen to the Republic of Serbia. This is the truth about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who died in the Homeland War and that their truth is visible, we were to discuss this disappearance today, and this disappearance of the Independent Representatives Club will support whether it stems from the draft of this law. The other disappearance we don't want to talk about, the other disappearance we won't support is the lack of clarity of this debate today. That's where we found out who thinks about Kordić, I found out something about who's in which sector and how much he's been working, and I found out how someone developed the methodology for taking money from the state budget, and then we found out that everyone's doing it, so that's the disappearance, the argumentary rationale that shouldn't be connected to this law in any way. This law, therefore, is the law of an individual, existential truth that every man, regardless of what he did in life, has the right to stand in those two sentences, where he was born and where he died. His life will also be valued with this historical optics, that does not mean that someone who was violent and who participated in violence now becomes a saint and noble. This does not mean that some republic, in a specific case of the Republic of Croatia, will in this way paralyze Croatian kindness. No, this means exclusively what the law says, that this is that the missing persons in the Homeland War, who are defended by the Republic of Croatia, who, in one historical sense, are considered to be justifying the act of this present Republic, that because of the truth of the Homeland War, we have the right to know the truth about these missing people, the citizens of the Republic, and therefore the Club of Independent Representatives, supports, this bill, and we do not support everything that is in the social sense, led us to demonstrate our verbal skills, which have nothing to do with the point of the agenda, but have to do with our metal status and have to do with the way that we observe our own cosmic importance, and he is saying, I will tell you at the level of disappearance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136456	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Miro Kovac, will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136457	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we have now heard a reasonable voice from fellow Vučetic about this bill, about the missing in the Homeland War. On this plan, it seems to me that logically, it's natural that we have a consensus. Who can have something against it, that Minister Medved made this bill with this team, which includes all the missing and Croatian defenders and civilians and those who were in rebel formations when it was the Homeland War. The law we're going to pass here, which applies to all the missing from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that we have reached such a level in the Croatian Parliament, that we must have a consensus on such things. Normally we have here and the debate, that the tones are up, but we have to keep the level. We need to keep our level and avoid demagogues, manipulations in these things. This is not about who's bigger, smaller Croat, if you want a political Croat. Because we will also take care of those who are not Croatian nationalities here, and they are on the list of the Croatian Defence Ministry. So let's be on this plan, reasonable, commend, what Minister Medved did with his team, because this is the first step, the first step, the structured policies of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to resolving the issue of the legacy of war. The goal must be to create a protocol with our colleagues in Serbia in cooperation, and then such a level, we have not yet established with them with Montenegro and with the BiH, but I repeat, we have done that with our colleagues from the EU, nearly 3 years ago, we have installed transitional criteria, which concern all of us in the EU, meaning not only Croatia, but all EU member states, and one of these criteria, as regards Serbia's obligations, that it must work with us, I say, with us, I mean the Republic of Croatia, in finding the missing. And I will repeat what I said in an individual debate and on this plan, Serbia has to resolve it completely, completely, otherwise it is not considered to be met. This was done nearly 3 years ago by the government, the previous government, in which Mr. Oreshkovic, the Prime Minister, who was the government of HDZ and Mosta, and we should be proud of that, because it is not only a contribution to the efficiency of Croatian state insinuations, and here we see the result of this and this bill. We personally believe that there must be the next step and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Campers, but this is also a contribution to strengthening relations with neighbours, in this case with the Republic of Croatia, because we will only achieve trust, as the resolution and the Council of Europe on the missing from European wars, if we resolve the issue of missing persons, and in this case, a very important chapter on interstate relations, on relations, means between Croatia-Serbia, but relations between Croats and Serbs, without resolving, the legacy of war, will not be a breakthrough. I personally advocate a breakthrough and a clean bill policy. It always brings with it certain problems. Of course, some dark sides of the past should be opened, in particular, in neighbouring Serbia, where the war against Croatia started, but I am convinced that there will be reinforcements and that one day we will have much better relations on this plan because we will talk openly about what happened 20 years ago when Croatia was attacked. But now go to speak against such a law, which is positive, which applies to all Croatian citizens, there is no point, therefore, regardless of the campaign standing at the door for European elections, let's be reasonable, let's cut down on whether there is a level of demagogy, let's be rational and emphasize those things that all here in the Croatian Parliament are bringing us together. And the question of the missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136458	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136459	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with their co-workers, and we see in the end that Miro Kovac admitted that he had opened up chapters 23 and 24 on his own initiative and that the Šprljes were basically fools, and therefore Serbia treats Croatia as well as you gave them the legitimacy to act this way because the only tool that the Republic of Croatia has was to block Serbia in entering i.e. in the negotiations, mainly in chapters 23 and 24 where legal... Serbia where they gave us the opportunity to be a small Hague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, I know that the Ministry of Defence, the minister, his associates, chiefly Brigadier Sucic will do everything in his jurisdiction to find every missing person and to mark his place, but according to me and the club MOST, this law must be called, cannot be called the law on missing persons from the Homeland War because we have to say what is the cause of the Homeland War, the law of the missing because of the great Serb aggression because all the victims, either on the side of Croatia or on the side of the then army on the side or civilians on the one hand, was the cause of the great Serb aggression. In law, Ministers, not to mention great Serbian aggression, I think that in the second reading, history should be told because this law that solves historical problems, these problems are just the truth. I think that missing persons should have that human line and really don't count blood cells, it's very important, but there's no way to say goodbye to the Wolf who mocked us, who was a hoof and a brush and came here because he didn't go to Glin to apologize to people I told the Serbian nationality, to tell them that, I'm the one who called for Serbian... I know that your coalition... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the influence of Vucica is very important mainly in the European People's Party because he is your coalition partner and you must play it that way and I know that Minister Buric has ambition, that you should lobby with him and Tajani, but this should be above politics, here is not a question of the SDP, here are the victims on either side, I repeat once again, but it is the cause of the great Serb Chetnic aggression and open to them chapter 23 and 24 and leave the defenders at mercy and mercy, if it is not good, why would they be small Haag? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why would we be influenced by Merkelica, Tusk, Juncker, Tajani or anyone? And we're in the EU. When we were entering the EU, we had to locate, arrest, transfer and process all the generals who thought of it. And what they didn't need. The documentation was sent which was not declassified, sent to all sides, instead of 17 documents, was sent from the Office of Presidents of the 17 Plots in The Hague to show me loyalty. We shouldn't have declared an exclusive economic belt. So what we can do is this most important question, the most human question of what our obligation is, is our obligation to find these persons, that from the archives of KOS this documentation is delivered to Croatia, not to spread the red paper to Vukic that he is mocking us here and saying that the storm is like the concentration camps from II. svt. The war. That's not true. The storm is, it may be your per coalition Wolf partner, but the Storm is a winning and liberating action. And it's legitimate. in each segment was legitimate. And that was our right, and it won't have to be the Wolf because of the coalition relations with HDZ that affect everything that we do. I believe that we will all find our strength together, we will disembark, mostly the people of the Ministry of Defense who are trying and who are pushing to find everyone who is missing and have absolute support from us. Absolute support. However, this foreign minister's behaviour and this government is totally unacceptable to the Most. That is why again the only thing Croatia has to block Serbia because of... There is no paper in Croatia about our missing and that we honor them with dignity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136460	Thank you very much. Before continuing, we welcome the gallery of students and students of the Croatian Catholic University from Zagreb. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the final thing will be said by Defence Minister Tomo Bear, here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, for your contribution. I will use this final word to further explain those topics that have been addressed during the debate. It is not too great to say that missing persons are a priority humanitarian issue, and therefore, in the drafting of this legislative proposal, we have been guided by this opinion. The main objective of all activities of the Ministry of Croatian Defence and other bodies involved in the search for missing persons is to solve all cases of persons missing in the Homeland War. For the first time, we are making a proposal for a systematic solution to the problem of legal dispersion that has so far opened the possibility of legal gaps and incorrect interpretation of the existing legal framework. Since the debate has focused on the subject of jurisdiction in the search for missing persons, we consider it important once again to specify how the Proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War prescribes jurisdiction. The Republic of Croatia, through the authorities, is the bearer of the activities of the search for persons missing in the Homeland War and of the deadly victims in the Homeland War for which the burial site is unknown. It is about persons who, at the time of their disappearance or death, had Croatian citizenship or registered residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia or were persons of foreign citizenship who had the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and who at the time of their disappearance had no registered residence or residence at the Republic of Croatia. In the event of a request for missing foreign nationals who do not have the status of Croatian defender or registered residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia at the time of the disappearance of the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War in accordance with international humanitarian law through the competent authorities, we participate in the search for those persons but at the request of the authorities responsible for the search for missing persons of the State whose citizen is missing. Finally, there is no concern that this law would exclude the search for any person missing in the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War. Such a precise determination of jurisdiction is particularly important for improving relations with neighbouring countries, especially with the Republic of Serbia. The Croatian Defence Ministry notes all the draft reports on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in Chapter 23, since there have been several speeches here on the subject. I will comment on the proposals made on the need to assume the ministry's obligations in the investigations of the fate of missing persons. This is a very complex issue that requires inter-resorship cooperation mainly with the MUP, security intelligence agencies and competent judicial authorities. In the term of office of this Government, this cooperation is significantly strengthened, and this legislative proposal prescribes competences and activities in the search for missing persons and for the first time at the level of the legal force. Since it has been mentioned that the number of missing persons available to the Croatian Defence Ministry differs from the number of missing international organisations, I am stressing once again that the ministry as a body of the state administration is keeping records of persons missing in the Homeland War for whom the search procedure was initiated by the basis of the application of family members or other persons according to the competences as we have defined them. On the other hand, international organisations usually display data according to the principle of territoriality, which means that they include citizens of other countries that have disappeared in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Given the incorrect allegations made, I would like to point out that this Government and the Ministry of Croatian Defence in this term made a significant step in the organisation of the work, and related to the intensification of the discovery of missing persons, so we have collected and processed from all available sources the knowledge of 151 possible places of hidden mass and individual tombs from the Homeland War. That we conducted a full field survey at 128 locations where the remains of 106 people were found and exhumed, that we had re-exhumed 19 remains previously buried with Villa Gavrilović, the Central Cemetery in Osijek, etc., so it was persons where the exhumation was carried out or identified by a classical method. That we have conducted a field survey of 163 micro sites for which analytical and operational processing is under way, that we have organised 19 identifications where the remains of 125 people have been finally identified, while another 11 people exhumed in the area of the Republic of Croatia have been handed over to the competent authorities of the states whose nationals, the Republic of Serbia and BiH. That we've audited all unidentified remains of 911 postmortem remains found at the Crematorium. That we have organised funeral care for 132 identified persons, that we have organised preconditions for improving international and interstate co-operation, we have signed cooperation protocols between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers, that we have concluded a protocol on co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission for Detained, Missing Government of Montenegro, that we have signed an agreement with the International Commission for Missing Persons in the establishment of the database, that we have signed a framework plan for resolving the issues of persons missing in armed conflicts as a continuation of the London Summit. That we have significantly improved the methodology of work, introduced new innovative ground search methods, air-saving, cadaver dogs, that we have obtained the most modern equipment, that we have strengthened human resources, that we have signed a co-operation agreement with the University of Zagreb to improve the coordination and improvement of the quality of scientific and educational professional work. Therefore, this legislative proposal further confirms our commitment to resolving this priority humanitarian issue and preserving the dignity of the missing in the Homeland War. Just because it is a humanitarian issue and what this proposal is an expression of the best intentions and identified needs, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you will unanimously support it, and the proposals put forward in this debate will be analysed and incorporated into the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136462	Thank you very much, we have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136463	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I believe that you and your team will do everything possible to find the victims of great Serbian aggression. However, I cannot agree that the state has done everything it needs, I cannot agree. Everything I said, you'd do it again. And I can't accept that a natural person, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is paying our families' legal expenses to disappear to resolve their rights and the state is doing nothing. State, now imagine what kind of state we are to pay legal costs in Belgrade, a natural person in Belgrade, and we have to as a state, that's our ministers' obligation and I believe that we can force Serbia and Chetnik Vukic, and we have a tool, which is to block his entry into the EU, as long as ours is Croatian minorities there will not have the same rights or [[Intruder: Thank you.]] approximate as in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136464	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136465	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for the representation and assistance of members of the Association of Campers of the Croatian Defence Ministry and for all the competent bodies are available and we are constantly holding working meetings. So I cannot accept the the thesis that the defence and legal assistance of the Republic of Croatia has not been made available and that in the best way it is not available to provide all forms of assistance to the Serbian concentration campers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136466	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's your colleague, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136467	Your Honor, I must react, what the minister has said is not true. The Sotina families, 16 of them, have a lawyer in Serbia who is funded by Mrs. Kandic, not the Croatian state. That's not true, I know I don't have the possibility of responding to the Minister's statements because the Rules of Procedure don't predict it, but I had to react because it was false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136468	You pointed out yourself that you violated the Rules of Procedure and you deserved a warning, but then use other methods, please. This is what we came to the end of the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, First Reading, P.Z. No. 610th, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War is accepted, and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 91 for and 4 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136471	Dear President HS, here, we would like to know where the Prime Minister is, his absence here today actually shows that he doesn't care at all about HS or reform, and the fact is neither about Croatian citizens. Our key message through this interpretation is that Plenkovic's government has proved to be a complete failure in implementing the necessary structural reforms, that this government has not carried out what it itself has announced to implement, especially through the European Semester and national reform programme, that some reforms delay, from other complete resignations, and that there are no indications that anything could happen by the end of the term because we have entered election cycles, Europarliamentary elections, presidential and parliamentary elections. The SDP submitted this interpretation a year ago when we had on the table a report from the European Commission on the implementation of the announced structural reforms in the National Programme for 2017. At that time, the assessment of the implementation of the reforms was even that 52% of the announced reforms were either not implemented, or progress was limited. It is particularly stressed that no reforms have been implemented in the public administration segment, that there is no progress in reforming the public sector’s wage and reward systems, that there is no progress in reforming the pension system, that there is no progress in resolving healthcare debts, even reforms that are in the public meantime, such as that pension system, have proved completely unacceptable for most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. According to your pension reform, citizens will work longer, receive less and live even harder. The lack of reform has had direct consequences for a new slowdown in economic growth. The rate drops from 2.8% in 2017 to 2.6% in 2018, where the government itself forecasts that this slowdown would continue in the next period, defacto means that the government is at peace with the current bad situation and prospects, and is completely unprepared to deal with the necessary reforms. In the meantime, throughout 2018. Industrial production has fallen, and the direct result is the slowdown of trade exports. From the two-digit growth rate of 2014, 2015, even 2016, export growth is now minimal, and on the other hand imports of goods are expanding at several times higher rates and deepening the stock balance deficit. And the only salvation for the overall external trade balance is tourism and export services. But the biggest problem is that the potential of economic growth due to all these problems is estimated at only 1.4 to 1.9%, which is far below the values that Croatian citizens can ensure that standards grow significantly because everything that happens in the economy, and everything the government does or doesn't do, is seen in the end only whether citizens have more money in their pocket and whether they can live decently and decently. For all of this, we know in advance, the government will answer that the budget deficit is down to a minimum, that the fiscal situation is now much better, that the share of public debt in GDP falls and that there are even rating agencies to recognize and raise the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. The current credit rating will not serve to implement reforms, but rather to raise new loans and new loans to the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. It is not good that only the favourable circumstances of economic growth and the growth of budget revenue determine the overall state of budget, while deep-rooted inefficientness remains on the expenditure side. It is not good that there are hidden deficits that the finance minister has repeatedly, at least publicly, ignored. The last example is the return of health debt to pharmaceuticals to more than two billion kunas. The bills are paid with a backlog of 3 years, over 1,000 days, and that's nothing but hidden deficits. It's not good that he's so-called. tax reform, which is actually the second name for some small corrections in the tax system, primarily used a small number of citizens with the largest salary in the country. It is not good that only traders profited from the reduction in VAT on fruits, vegetables or meat because of the genuine reduction in prices for citizens did not actually come. It is not good that the medicines for citizens have been collected even though VAT is reduced to 5% to non-receptive medicines. We're wondering who's to blame? Why is the government's assessment, who knows which time it was wrong? Could it be the reform, the latest increase in gas, prices, gas and electricity? It collects electricity for industry up to 20%. For so long, Croatia's industry will be less competitive than neighbours in the EU. And who's to blame for closing a few thousand more jobs. It is not good for Croatia and the European Commission, including rating agencies, to constantly warn that it must seriously adhere to reforms, if it wants to hold a bankruptcy position in the medium and long term, but also create conditions for such a more stable growth. In a report by the European Commission for 2019 on macroeconomic economic imbalances in Croatia, it is explicitly warned that I quote, lasting economic growth, is becoming the main challenge for Croatia, while speeding up structural reforms are the main condition that these prospects behind growth are improving. Improving labour market conditions and creating a business environment for greater investment and productivity war are the main guidelines for these reforms. The analysis, in the report, showed that only 7% of the announced reforms were fully implemented by the HDZ government. It is not good for things to move in Croatia in the opposite direction. Competitiveness and business climate are bad. Everybody knows that. Croatia fell from 40th to 58th place of the duking business scale during this HDZ government. Corruption and nepotism have taken over again in the country. The investigation into the perceptions of corruption is devastating, and what the citizens might think, when they see the minister sitting on his shoulders, the selected entrepreneur, who only a few months ago granted HBOR credit or when they see the minister, with the latest luxury Mercedes, which she obtained from the same entrepreneur, by chance, who accidentally provided millions of funds from European funds. If that's how it works at the highest, state, ministerial level, you can imagine, which is and how it's where it's all under a smaller public path. On the other hand, when you look, where new employment happens, that's angle. public sector, at all levels, from local self-government, public enterprises, to public administration, and by party key, double damage. The public sector and the cost of taxpayers are pumping, while the profits of public enterprises are falling, so is the space for investment. It narrows down the tax redundancies of the economy and further wage growth. Because how to create salary taxes in the economy, when that money was spent on entrenched HDZ listeners. On the other hand, young people, people who are not alike, do not have a HDZ party card being driven out of the country. More than 200 thousand people left Croatia, while labour shortages on the labour market are becoming one of the most important restrictions on further growth. This isn't how it goes. The economy is weak, growth slow and insufficient, growth potential is extremely low. We in the SDP, we believe that the effect of short-term demand growth, i.e. personal consumption, is exhausted. In addition to the labour market crisis and the lack of labour, the thesis is objectively set, that growth can only be accelerated through new investment investments and raising their efficiency and productivity of employees. And that is exactly what serious reforms require, and what all well-intentioned people in Croatia and outside Croatia warn about, including the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the rating agency. In this respect, reforms are priority, in the education system, in the fundamental but also in the field of lifelong learning, where we are unfortunately at the beginning of Europe. Workers need modern skills, thus increasing productivity, and increasing productivity, means that even with a limited number of people on the labour market you can achieve more. We are concerned that a full and comprehensive curricula reform has been announced, has actually stalled at the first step and has come down to small, local, limited pilot projects. Croatia remains at the bottom of the scale, among Member States with regard to digital competences. No matter what measures are taken to make it better. Part of ICT experts, among all employees, is only 3.3 in 2017, part of students who graduate in the stem area are only 17 out of 1,000, where we are far behind the entire EU. Croatia is extremely lagging behind in adult education at the EU average. The rate of participation in adult education has never been less and is 2.3% compared to the EU average, which is at 11% somewhere. In particular, the level of participation of low-skilled and unemployed is low, which is particularly worrying. Secondly, a complete strategy should be developed to raise the technological level of the economy and the added value created there. We are now stuck at a low level of added value and this is a key problem for Croatia. And that means low wages and low profits, and then low levels of investment in growth and development. This results in a poor charge of funds, pension, health, lower quality and public service standards, compared to our partners in the EU. The state and government must be determined to invest more and encourage the private sector to invest in the RNI. So research into development and innovation capacities. We're aware that this is a long-term process, but the results won't be if it goes clearly and perfectly that way once. Unfortunately, there is a problem in the speed of implementation of projects within the system of science and higher education co-financed by structural funds, which is the most relevant to the scientific centres of enforcement and infrastructure projects. Large delays arise in public procurement processes, primarily due to the unpreparedness of state agencies to implement such types of projects. Therefore, Croatia is threatening to withdraw part of the funds at the level of the total allocation for each priority if it is proved to be unsuccessful. There is a similar situation with other sectors in the use of funds. And while the government is trying to draw on how much funds it has agreed, the only and real indicator is the funds paid from the EU budget to the Croatian budget and institutions, which is unfortunately less than 20% after nearly 5 and a half years from the 7-year financial perspective. The biggest concern is that in these recent years, Croatia has paid the EU budget of more than 18 billion kuna, and that it has withdrawn only 14 billion kunas through the EU. And while we, like Godot, expect government reforms and a lot of things we haven't seen so far, we have to cultivate and develop what we have and what maintains a level of economic activity and employment that allows as much decent life as possible for our people. In this context, we would like to point out clearly that we are not prepared to support the Government in decisions that mean giving up the shipbuilding industry, or, for example, by supporting the government. Refinery plants, like the one in Sisak. When we entered the shipbuilding restructuring process in 2013, the sector directly employed 11,000 people and another 40,000 indirectly. In 180 companies that were suppliers of shipyards in Croatia. Today, thanks to the inaction and slowness of the government's reaction, shipbuilding has been halved in every respect. Every month, delaying important decisions on the fate of the group's Oil Group costs the country a minimum of 50 million kuna. We will therefore support the short-term removal of the sick tissue in these systems, but to save what is healthy and which can be sustainable and beneficial for our citizens who there provide their own existence. When it comes to the specifics of the Oilman and 3. Maya, we're holding that you can still do a good job there. On other grounds, and with the full responsibility of those who manage these systems, but also stronger and greater control and control of the state without which the restructuring process will not be possible. Giving another opportunity to shipbuilding can ultimately reduce the cost of a state related to guarantees estimated at several billion kunas. I've listed here, gentlemen, a lot of things you haven't done, and now let me count on what you've done. It is precisely this government of the Republic of Croatia that will be remembered as one of the biggest generators of corruption affairs and scandals in recent Croatian history. First, the Borg affair, the biggest corruption affair in Croatia's history, an affair of all affairs in which hundreds of millions of euros were drawn from those who wrote the law under the prime minister's patronage, although he claimed he did not know about the Borg group, evidence appeared that he himself was the same group. Clearly, the prime minister lied. Secondly, the INA affair, where Plenkovic finishes the job that Ivo Sanader started. Not long ago, he said he would return INA to Croatian hands, and after meeting with Orban, he changed the law allowing Hungarians to take over the INA. Third, the affair planes. The failed purchase of fighter aircraft at as much as three times the price. The affair cost us about 100,000 euros somewhere, cost us international reputation, combat preparedness. Interestingly, in the affair, the former company, Minister Krstic, prepared for the jobs of maintaining the same aircraft that were to be purchased three times more expensive than their actual value. Although the prime minister claimed he had not received a warning paper, that Croatia could not buy those planes, the US ambassador exposed it. So the prime minister lied again. An affair of SMS leading to the very top of HDZ. It has shown that insider accounts in HDZ use intelligence underground services. She also warned of weakness and deeply compromised the DORH itself. The affairs of Minister Murganić, who, apart from the last case, where she has transferred responsibility to the services she has actually managed for the past two years and which are directly under her authority, remained remembered for her excellent statements such as gifts intended for poor children who she has given to children in private kindergarten or violence against women in the family, when she found out, so is married to you. She also proposed a disastrous family law, which defined marriage as a community of men and women in whom there must be children. The Household Act denied rights and life partners, and in fact its former secretary Marin Strmota said everything about it, when he publicly resigned from the cameras and called its key project for demographic reconstruction a public lass. Now is the time to count the affairs of Minister Kujundzic. And there's plenty of them, there's no minister, so I'm sorry if I forgot. An emergency case when an ambulance arrived in Zaprešić without a doctor, and the young man who got sick died. Furthermore, the death of a 9-year-old boy in Metkovic, who was sent home twice from the ER. One of the last affairs in a series is an affair in which 11-year-old boy Peter died in Rebra after a catastrophic medical treatment. But that's not all from Minister Kujundzic. It is known that it neither respects the Constitutional Court's decision nor the right of a woman to decide on her reproductive health, and I also remind you of an affair of kiretage and the disastrous treatment of women in hospitals. The last case is a case in which a woman suffered an abortion without anesthesia because a single anaesthesiologist had an appeal to conscience. And that's why women were having a live abortion. It's a horror and shame in the 21st century. It's the 19th century. It is clear to all of us that Plenkovic's Minister of Health Kujundzic is the worst minister Croatia has ever had, which is why healthcare debts are raised by doctors and nurses and patients are waiting for him to die. Furthermore, the affairs of Minister Žalac, who is known to have, under suspicious circumstances and untransparently tried to allocate funds from EU funds, by principle, the fastest finger. That's when the whole contest was annulled because of a doubt of guessing. The latest case of the Mercedes affair, Minister Žalac, shows how large and indicative and suspected corruption are in the government. For the first few days, it was speculating whose precious Mercedes was and then we find out at one point that his brother parked because there was nowhere to go and at the second moment that her mother had signed the lease agreement. How is it possible that an older lady with incomes she has could pay the rent of such a luxurious, expensive Mercedes? At the same time, the same minister who has been unable to extend the driver's license for three years has put Croatia in a position to pay more money in the EU budget than we get from it. We are moving on to the affairs of Minister of Finance Zdravko Marić. Everyone knows that Finance Minister Maric came from Agrokor, despite claiming Agrokor was in trouble, did not mind, moreover, even lobbying for 400 million kuna of HBOR's loan to the fallen Agrokor. Afterwards, together with Prime Minister Plenkovic and former Minister Dalic, he participated in the work of the Borg group, which wrote a special law for Agrokor, so that later these same advisers would become rich on fees from Agrokor. The latest in a series of his affairs is the appointment of his own sister in HANFA, and that was right in the department that was supposed to write him a positive report on the implementation of the same Agrokor's recovery. Furthermore, the affairs of Minister Tolusic such as imports of infected meat from Poland or an affair where the father of the agency's director after Tolusic's ministry has for years used pastures without kuna compensation and killing incentives. This last one is just one in a series of favor stories, family and family stories. Because I will remind you that Prime Minister Plenkovic, in the affair of the appointment of his godfather Igor, showed as ambassador to the UK, said, quote: "I hired a man because I've known him 24 years." But it is not the only employment from the Plenkovic family circle, it should be recalled that the brother of the prime minister's wife, Ivan Maslac, has become the second man of Dubrovnik Airport. And with all the numerous affairs of HDZ Interior Minister Bozinovic, HDZ's chief state lawyer Jelenic is doing nothing about it. That's how it gets the impression that they're actually protecting corruption and crime. Because of all the above-listed affairs, citizens lose confidence in the government, lose confidence in the country's institutions, are bothered by corruption, are disturbed by crime and can no longer endure nepotism and employment on the party and family lines and therefore move out daily. I will remind you that in the last two years of this government, more than 130,000 people have left Croatia, which is the HDZ image of Croatia, an exodus. What the prime minister is only trying to do is not mention the affairs, that journalists are silent so that this government can continue in silence systematically destroying the country and to hide the fact that reforms are not being implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136472	Now let's go to the replicas. We have 17 replicas. The first one's a colleague of Pernar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136473	Dear Representative Bernardic, they have often said from HDZ that they are not guilty, that they are not a criminal organisation, that nothing is justified, in fact that they are honest people and an honest party. However, if the information is true from the Supreme Court, their boss just got six years in prison yesterday and must immediately go to detention. So I'm wondering if the HDZs here have any interest in their boss today, will they be cold to it and indifferent, or will they at least show a little interest in him if nothing else is due to fear for their own destiny? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136474	Answer. There's no answer. All right, here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136475	Thank you, Your Honor. In speech, it means the one I'm going to have on behalf of the Club, I'm going to bring out everything this government didn't do, or what it did wrong, and what it missed out on. But here I'm going to refer to one fact when we talk about the bad things that have happened to this government, the prime minister often likes to say that some kind of transition cabbage came to him at a table that he's not responsible for. Your predecessors are responsible. I've just been wanted by journalists for a statement on your former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's verdict of six years means which one is the power of power and the fact is that you're trying to get away from it. Try to escape the bad moves of your governments as Prime Minister Plenkovic flees, but you also try to escape the crime you supported and in which you participated in the government of Ivo Sanader, which this prime minister often likes to accuse because of the things that have come to his agenda that he is not responsible for. So in that government he was our President of the Parliament, he was Foreign Minister Bacic, who was the president of the Club of Representatives, he was also, so he supported the government, his colleague Schuker was the finance minister, his colleague, Boris, was an assistant minister of transport. This verdict today is a verdict to all of you, not to judge Evey Sanader, this is the verdict of all of you dear colleagues, and you will not be able to escape from this. You were part of a government whose prime minister has been indicted legally for six years in prison. Are you aware of the gravity of that verdict? Are you aware of your responsibilities that you cannot escape from? Just as you can't escape all of these worse things that happen in Croatia for which the former governments are responsible, but your government gentlemen, your government, not my government, your government, not the governments of Croatian citizens leaving Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136476	Thank you. You got a break, you're entitled to it, so 10 minutes to 16.08. It's a 15.58 o'clock meeting. Next up after the stand at 16,08 hours. Please colleagues and colleagues take your seats so we can continue our work. Now it's my dear colleague Klisovic's turn, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136478	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Mr. Bernadic, the government's best performance assessment on structural reforms has been given by citizens themselves. How? Well, they're leaving. They don't have faith in the structural reforms of this government, they don't have faith in a better future, which should be given to them by this government. HDZ says the SDP government is to blame for their departure. But what do objective world analysts say? So due business chart says that during the time of the SDP government, Croatia was in 40th place, at the time of this government, we fell to 58th by 18th place. The Index of Democracy,... 51st place at the time of the SDP government, 60th of today minus 9th place we fell. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reporters Without Borders, Freedom of Media, 58th place at the time of the SDP government, 69th of today minus 11, 11th place we fell World Economic Forum,... [[Adversity President: Thank you, answer.]] with 120 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] at 140 fires. [[Adversity President: Kolega Klisovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136479	My colleague, please, time's up. Here you go, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136480	Dear fellow Klisovic, you have established the facts, you have determined the exact data that in the last 3 years, the HDZ Government is sinking on the competitiveness scale, to sink into the perception of corruption, i.e. We become countries, more corrupt. And you've also made it very clear that we're sinking on the freedom of the media. You've had the last protest of journalists under slogan, you've kidnapped the media, we don't give journalism, and not only that, but in every way, they're trying to intimidate journalists, hide the affairs, so these affairs aren't written about. And that's why the citizens of this country lose confidence in institutions because they see injustice, see crime, see corruption, see nepotism, and that's why two buses, young people, leave our country daily.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136481	Comrade Maras, here you go. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136482	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernadic, as you comment on this hypocritical HDZ act as if nothing had happened, and the president of the HDZ and one of their longest if not the longest diameter Ivo Sanader, today he has been given six years for stealing state money in the Planinska affair and will have to serve that sentence in Remetinco. Here are the closest associates of the diameter of Sanader, Mr. Jandrokovic now President of the Parliament, Mr. Bačić, president of the HDZ Club of people who worked with him every day, on a daily basis, consulted and did the job. How do you comment that now, the HDZ acts as if it had nothing to do with them, as if it were some new HDZ, as if Plenkovic created a party the day before yesterday and has nothing to do with Sanader, as you say, is that not hypocritical?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136483	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136484	Dear colleague Maras, as I said in the introduction, given the amount of affairs produced by this Plenkovic government, Prime Minister Plenkovic is on the best track to go through Ivo Sanader, with everything he carries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136485	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136486	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bernardić, I think you have made the reforms that need to be implemented very nicely, but I am afraid that the affairs you listed prove that HDZ cannot reform itself, let alone Croatia, after 10 years of Sanader. And then I ask a rhetorical question, is there any hope for us? Any hope for this country, any hope for this people. And the only answer I can give with a government like this, certainly not. With this kind of government whose reform move is the project Slavonia, the PR project, which has produced so many results, you see, that in Slavonia soon there will be only migrants and nobody else, and even migrants do not want to stay in Slavonia. From our cereal, we made the desert, why? Here, one of the ministers who is responsible for this, as Minister of Agriculture, is sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136487	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136488	Dear Mr. Hajdukovic, you have concluded well that Slavonia is devastated, that people are moving out, that there is no job, that there is no perspective and that life in Croatia is becoming more and more difficult every day. The situation is not better in other parts of Croatia and it is just absurd absurd that it is from this beautiful country, with 1000 islands, the largest Croatian island, Ireland.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136489	Now it's time for a respected colleague of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136490	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bernardic, this interpretation is tragic, because it has more grammatical and spelling errors than it makes sense and meaning. And even the headlines were misspelled. So there should be a significant difference between the proposal and the work. Because if there was no government failure, if it worked, if it was because of it, then there would be government failure, as you deliberately wish. And these three conclusions are actually pathetic. You even took something old, because you don't know there's something new in the meantime. And now that we're on our way to the debates to list what's been done specifically and what's improved in this government's mandate, then of course every intelligent one will realize that you've taken another shot into the blank, then, as the people say, you jumped into your mouth yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136491	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136492	I see you're skillful in grammar, you were probably so skillful when instead of the sign of the Bridge, the lists from which you were selected, you read the door of the HDZ and then you walked through that door.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136493	Comrade Babic Ante, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136494	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bernardic, here in this interpretation that you have submitted, you actually want action plans to be abolished, and that parliamentary oversight is actually carried out by a new national council where you propose academic, professional public, trade unions, media and the like. So, in the implementation of the National Reform Programme itself and the Convergence Programme. It seems to me that you can't just get over it and leave out those political atavis from the past where you want to determine who's going to do what, how and when, and in this case you're saying that the government should be forced to implement, to implement reforms. You must simply get rid of that legacy of the past, and the results of the government actually cause frustration with you because they are positive and going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136495	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136496	First of all, we certainly did not propose to abolish any action plan in order to put an end to it. As nothing happens then, we can't even put an end to it, especially not an action plan, because there's no action or plan. You're only having affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136497	Comrade Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136498	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my colleague Bernardic.Sometimes someone needs to update your data. You mentioned a few words needed, so my conflicting question with you would be, and what would cross you from your colleague Bernardic to go with anything constructive instead of listing any more outdated or archaic data? You're a little bit like me in the Greek tragedy, you know you have some follow-up behind you, and when you turn around, they're all smaller, so they're terrible masses if they're led by such leaders. And when you mentioned the shipbuilding process, I'll just remind you, when it entered the shipbuilding restructuring process 67% of the 4.2 billion kuna guarantees are given by the government of Zoran Milanovic, remember your predecessor?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136499	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136500	When we were boating over 80% of the guarantees of the SDP government were covered by ships, there was order, ships were produced, there was strict control of state guarantees, when you came you had no ships, no order, and there was no money. The money's gone, both from the Oilies and May 3rd. And you'll have to explain that to the citizens of this country. And as for keeping us from spending some of these things that are necessary now, it's preventing us from being here at the assembly in a panic-stricken fear of choices, because you're afraid, if you're so strong call them, you're collecting so-called. The chips. You can't even talk to people, you can talk to MPs who support you within the ruling majority. That's what he says best about you and your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136501	A colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136502	Thank you well-respected President, so my colleague Bernardic would like to thank you for giving us the opportunity today once again to remind you and all of our citizens that this very government, the way in which it leads economic policy and implements fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, has led to the fact that after 7 years the credit rating has been increased from the category of garbage in the investment, that this government has given up its revenues with 6.3 billion kuna in order to give to our citizens entrepreneurs and you call it so-called. tax reform. In particular in this government, this government achieved a 2.6% GDP growth in 2018, unlike then, when you were in charge and in 2014 achieved a 0.1% drop. You're scaring people that they're going to have to work by 67 years, it's your government 2014 Such a law has been passed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136503	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136504	So what proceeds have you given up? Well, all I saw was that you liked expensive Mercedes, that you liked expensive watches, that you didn't give up. Credit rating? Panicly you try to spin the story of credit ratings, to raise new loans, to borrow Croatian and Croatian citizens, probably because you are a fan of expensive properties, paintings, watches, Mercedes, that's what you like.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136505	Comrade Falcon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136506	Thank you very much, so colleague Bernardic, you've brought up all sorts of things in your presentation of the least that there is in this sad interpretation. I think you have an explanation of about 1 page where it literally doesn't say anything. But to refer to what you said, so you manipulated here in front of the Croatian public the data on the withdrawal, the use of money from the European funds. So, the result at the end of 2018 that 18 billion kuna has been paid into the European budget from the Republic of Croatia and 28 billion kuna has been withdrawn in total, but, of course, agriculture and all those other things, the framework programme for science, education, etc., then you get the right number. As for the contracted funds, it means 65% today by the end of the year 85%, in your time score 9%. I think it's 65 more than 9 and you're the last one who needs to teach a lesson about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136507	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136508	So everyone knows birds on the border, Mr. Falcon, that this government has withdrawn only 15% of European funds and that, unfortunately, at this point, Croatia is paying more money in the European budget than it is getting back. During the SDP government, it was 85%, and now it's 15%. And that's true, but that doesn't have to be surprising when she's at the head of this ministry, Mrs. Gristle, who, for as long as three years, needed to extend her driver's license, so how long did it take her to withdraw the European funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136509	Comrade Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136510	Dear colleague Bernardić, I listened very carefully to you for 30 minutes and I do not believe that you have, believe that you have managed to convince anyone of what you have said, when you have failed to easily convince your club representatives. For me, you are the most successful president of the SDP since the beginning, so far, because you have succeeded in one thing, you have succeeded in breaking up your club of representatives and doing damage to your party. So I honestly congratulate you on that, but I don't believe that any of the Croatian public but we here in the assembly can be convinced of everything you've said, simply for the reason that we've listened to a beautiful fairy tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136511	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136512	You're being referred to and you don't really remember how funny it was for you that a river trafficker had to sell a wheelchair so he could feed his family and you came from that county. It's something that's scandalous and embarrassing. And as far as I'm concerned, no, I haven't had the chance to be SDP's most successful president yet, but I will be, don't worry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136513	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136514	In 238, in the light of my replica, he didn't stick to what I was saying, I wasn't laughing at smugglers at the time, I was laughing at you who were pathetically doing it, and now I'm laughing at you because you're managing to break up what little you have left of your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136515	Okay, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but the fact is that a colleague Bernardic accused you of something very ugly if it didn't happen, then it's not right, I won't give anyone a warning. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136516	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bernardić, I don't know because the proposal may have been sent a year earlier but you read something about it that doesn't stand, it's absolutely out of line with what's reality and reality, and you mentioned the reform of education, so I'm going to read some things to you now, so yes, the school of life has been since autumn at 74 schools and since autumn it's been in all schools, 1st, 5th grade and biology, chemistry, physics at 7th and 8. The biggest education in all Croatian history, more than 32,000 teachers, new 39 curriculas, more than 200 million kunas from the EU funds and the state budget, is under way for the reform that you say is not there, a billion kunas for vocational schools from the EU funds, 373 million kunas for scientific centres of excellence, a billion kunas from EU funds for scientific equipment and infrastructure, membership in CERN and a total of 2 billion of all, so if it is not a reform, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136517	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136518	Dear Mr. Curray, you of the HNS, did you manage to get final pills in schools or do you still get them? You know what you did, you managed to get Anna Frank out of school to testify to the horrors of the Holocaust. It's your educational reform, that the gentlemen of the HNS. First you betrayed your voters, moved on to the other side and became what your name actually tells you, a Croatian unnecessary party.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136519	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136520	Article 238 was injured, a colleague demeaning other MPs and in his statement, so it was absolutely incorrect first that you say someone threw something out rather than giving only the possibility of a choice and that even if it wasn't even final, it was the profession to choose and the fact that someone has a mindset that something must have been the way it must have been 20, 30, 40 years ago, that's your problem. We give choices, we let teachers do what they know best.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136521	Comrade Curaj, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You used this for a replica and I'll give you a warning. ... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] There was a slightly different situation, then it was a very difficult accusation at the expense of colleagues Klaric and here... No, no, but there was no personal insult here, there was generally one statement here. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] My colleagues and colleagues, you know very well that I warn HDZ members when I think they should be warned. Comrade Macar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136522	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I will also look back on this part where my colleague Bernardic discussed educational reform or argued that it is not happening or that it is not there. I also know what his answer will be, but I must remind him that in the last year and a half, the Ministry of Science and Education has been made more than in the past 20 years, and besides your court, it has been this educational reform that the European Commission has praised by calling it one of the most ambitious reforms. And more so when you point out that we need students who will be able to work in the job that is sought. Yes, a billion kuna has been provided for vocational schools from the EU funds and the centres themselves mean new equipment, new accommodation facilities for students and the entry of students into the world of work. All this was done under the leadership of Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136523	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136524	Dear colleague Makar, first of all, it's not a reform, it's an experiment, an expensive experiment, an expensive experiment you're doing on children, and there's nothing new in that whole story but the new pills you're getting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136525	Comrade Bačić, here you go. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136527	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bernardić, I listened very carefully to you for 20 minutes, and most of your exposure was characterized by slander, insult, lies and accusations. I was convinced that yesterday's judgment of the Municipal Court in Zagreb, where you were ordered to pay 75 000 kuna to the prosecutor for defamation, that there would be an indication of how you will perform today in this presentation. Nevertheless, you continue in the same way. I strongly recommend that in the future, before you enter into such debates and slander, you accuse, that you think a little bit better about how you will pay for the slander you would not accuse your children, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136528	Mr. Baichi, are you threatening me here? Thank you for that, but I will not give up on disclosing crime in this country, I will not give up. He threatens me with punishment, but you won't stop me. Don't worry, especially you who wore black bags for Sanader. Especially you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136529	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136530	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bernardić, Branko Bačić, never carried a bag for anyone. Neither was he carrying any money nor was he sharing money and when you want to return to the past, colleague Bernardic, as SDP president, finally told the Croatian public where the 700 000 euros paid to the SDP for a villa in Bohinj by your TV director Goran Radman? When you go out with that data and you say where your money is, where it's spent, where the SDP account was found, then you can transfer it to others. .../Intruder President: Comrade Bačić.’... And to use your syntagm: "Where is the money, Mr Bernardich? Where is the SDP's money?"
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136531	Comrade Bačić! Wait a minute, wait a minute, so there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure by my colleague Bernardic and I'm giving you a heads-up. So you're going to get reminders all of you that you're going to use now in violation of the Rules of Procedure for Replications. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136532	Thank you very much. The 238th article, a representative who received a 15 thousand-euro watch from ACI Mr. Bacic, was injured because he threatened No, to the exhibition of colleagues Bačić [[Adversity President: Col. Maras, you have broken the Rules of Procedure to expose fellow Bernardic.]] Ask, so I was still wondering why you didn't give me your word when he started talking. ... [[The incursion president: No.]] Yeah, I picked up on Bačić, and then I gave you a second time why don't you give me your word, so you showed me Bačić that he's talking, that's what I picked up on him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The incursion president: No, no, you were the one who raised the tablet when a colleague Bernardic spoke.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136533	Then finish up, here's my time. No, no, it was time. [[Intruder Maras: Please return time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136534	So the gentleman who got the expensive ACI watch, Mr. Bacic, here threatens MPs not to speak otherwise will pay under the HDZ judiciary a great deal of compensation and that's what needs to be said here. So he calls on his friend obviously who, Shexa, the godfather, who apparently still offices in the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia and threatens us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136535	Comrade Maras, you are being warned. Comrade Maras, please sit down, you're being warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136536	And what do I get for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136537	Because you broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136538	What did I break?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136539	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136540	The Honorable Chairman, you did right by saying that Mr. Bacic broke the Rules of Procedure, and that is why I am giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136541	Okay. Let's move on, colleague Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136542	While you were talking about the affairs of the government's ministers, you also mentioned the affairs of Minister Murganic. What comes into my eye today, that actually among the representatives here from the government who are with us today, there's no one from the Ministry of Demography, so no one, no one, no one, no one, no one else. And what exactly is he saying? That she is probably ashamed and that she would be very embarrassed to answer precisely because of this, but she is ashamed of the fact that there is not a single concrete structural reform in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136543	Would you like to answer? No, I don't. Then let's go to fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136544	Thank you very much. My colleague Bernardic, I don't know, this introduction of yours with these accusations like a carnival. You and your colleagues, all in line sitting with you. Put us in debt for 80 billion, we have to cut it down, leave us budget deficits in tens of billions of kuna, we make surpluses, raise wages, and cut taxes. Leave us in the excessive deficit procedure, we come out, get a credit rating down to the lowest level...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136545	Comrade Boric, just, just a little please. My colleagues and colleagues, some of your presentations are very funny, so don't laugh and I'm asking you to be fair and correct with each other, let's laugh outside the assembly room and let the others say what they think they need to say. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136546	I say leave us with a low-level credit rating drop. We make an investment. Your mind in restructuring we pay, we pay. You stood up for the bankruptcy of Agrokor, we took it to keep it as a system functioning. In the end, you conclude that we must leave in order for you to come. Now that you've destroyed that SDP, I don't know who's gonna fix it for you. Bero, look at the traffic lights and worry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136547	You want an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136548	Mr. Boric, everything you said you said about yourself. The fact is you're having an affair, an affair in an affair. The fact is that by tax changes of the system, instead of those most vulnerable in our society, the weakest, who have the lowest wages, you've raised wages to those who have salaries greater than 18 thousand kuna, you've done it. The fact is, you're poor, you haven't raised your salary, you've raised your wages to the richest. The fact is, you've also forgiven those richest in debt, paid them direction. The fact is, you like expensive things, you like real estate, cars, watches, Mercedes. The fact is, too, that these tax changes didn't allow you to eat cheap food. Food is not cheap, VAT on added value did not make that effect. And now you're pretending to be smart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136549	Comrade Vlaović, you are the last with a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136550	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague Bernardić, it is good that we have opened this debate on reforms that are not so, it is especially late for reforms and for improving the quality of life for those 300 thousand people, young people from young families who have moved out of Croatia, from Slavonia and Baranja. And surely we can't expect a quick improvement with these results that we heard yesterday that for water supply and water treatment of billions and 50 million euros is situationed, paid only 10%, that for the rural development programme of 2.5 billion so far, about 30% is paid up to now, and there's just not enough and there's just over 70% of the population of the Republic of Croatia doesn't believe in the right direction that this government is headed by the Republic of Croatia. But here's what's going on, something's going to change, and maybe trust in the judiciary will come back because Sanader's sentencing six years in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136551	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136552	Well, Mr. Vlaovic, you've noticed well. So our farmers are on their knees and it's amazing that, with the Ministry of Agriculture, our farmers actually get 20% less incentives than European ones and don't get them in time. Why are we second-class citizens? Why are our farmers second-class citizens? Why was only 20% of European funds withdrawn with the measures you said, especially for rural development? Why isn't that money in the hands of Croatian farmers? You know why? And I will answer to the representative, Boric. Because they directed that money to import lobbys, they reduced VAT to fruits, vegetables, meat, to suit import lobbys, increased the profits of foreign search centres, rather than favouring the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's what they did, it's the reforms of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136553	We've come to an end with the replicas, to be exposed to the motionary, now we'll have a representative, a colleague of the coat of arms, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136554	Thank you, Mr. President. Before handing over a word to the honourable representative of the Government, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, he would ask for a break, related to this item of the agenda, because of a shameful situation, which is that when we discuss the absence of any structural reforms, by this government, here in front of the Croatian Parliament, he did not have the courage to come to the Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic. At times when Croatia is returning for a decade, when all economic indicators, suggest that the same as in the days of Ivo Sanader and during Andrej Plenkovic, consumer credits are emerging, we are pushing towards recession, Mr Plenkovic is not here. When we have a situation that the exact same as in Mr. Sanader's time, they negotiate and do whatever works with the Hungarians around INA, Mr. Plenkovic is not here, he is probably afraid to answer questions. Probably given the reaction we had to see just a few minutes ago, some HDZ secretary walks around with bags containing millions of kuna and hundreds of thousands of euros. Again, as in the time of Mr. Eve Sanader, when the clocks were gathering, the Mercedes or the Harley Davidsons are gathering today. But Mr Plenkovic is not here to answer questions to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and thus to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Mr. President, I ask you to determine one break, as long as it takes, 10, 15, 20 minutes, half an hour, to call your boss's phone and ask him to meet his obligation in the parliamentary system and come before the MPs in this country's House and show that if he has no face, then at least he has the courage to answer the questions that we're going to ask him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136555	A fellow coat of arms you get a break, but don't deceive the public, it's not his obligation to be here, it's his decision, the diameter can come or don't come. And by not coming, he may be sending you a certain message. Here's my colleague Bačić, on behalf of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136556	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also seeking a 10-minute break to discuss continuing participation in this debate, given the unfounded slanders that come from the ranks of SDP representatives. In fact, among the 23 if I am not mistaken, the signatories of this interpretation, 9 signatories are members of the SDP government, which since the 2014 World Economic Forum has been regarded as the 6th most unsuccessful government in the world, in the company Chad, Angola, Nigeria and South Sudan. And then they ask for interpretations about the government's work, which was put on hand a few days ago by the European Commission, when Croatia emerged from the procedure of excessive macroeconomic imbalances, put alongside, Germany, France, Sweden, Denmark, Portugal and Spain. Therefore, as much about kidnapping as the optics are seen by SDP representatives of the government's work and measures with the government in which they participated. As Boric said earlier, we are experiencing these accusations from the government that owed Croatia 80 billion kuna, from the government that brought Croatia, whose rating, came to the level of garbage and accused the same government, which was given back to investment ratings a few days ago by the Steinard credit agency and pulse. And much more than what we, in this debate today, are going to talk about... Much better said by the European Commission and much better said by the Credit Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in the future, we will focus on the arguments that speak of the government's quality work, and these accusations, which we hear from the SDP above all, speak about themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136557	Thank you, thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136558	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break, so that within the club we can consult once more on the fact that we are discussing the successes of the government, which, most of which is the party, which has just turned out to be their longtime president and the diameter of the criminal, who stole the budget money. In order to consider the fact that one man was convicted, regardless of being the most prominent and that we should believe that he, at the same time, the only one who stole, meant by the charges of 700 million kuna, all together and that no one from his party and no one from his government knew anything about it. That he was the Pale alone in the world, which, behold, had the opportunity to take hundreds of millions of kunas, in some secret, without the participation of those who communicated with him on a daily basis. Is it realistic to believe it or is it more correct to suspect that they are just his closest associates, not only knew everything Mr. Sanader did, but they were actively involved in all of his unholy actions. Among other things, one minister from Sanader's government, led by the trial to steal 15m kuna and 850m euros, was appointed co-worker, current president of Parliament Gordan Jandrokovic, is Božidar Kalmet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136559	Thank you very much. Okay. Is there anyone else who wants to take a break? If not, we'll continue at 16.55. [[It's 4:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16.55 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats, continue our work and will now explain on behalf of the Government the report by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, respected Tomislav Tolusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136561	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been implementing economic policy since the beginning of its term of office whose main objectives are strengthening economic growth, sustainability of public finances and reducing macroeconomic imbalances. The results of such a policy are clearly seen in the movement of macroeconomic indicators. After a long recession, our economy is recovering on a stable basis, and for the third year in a row we are recording healthy, healthy growth. The key components of our policy are fiscal consolidation, structural reform and investment. The latest confirmation of our policies, a concrete result which is also one of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, is the prominent rating agency Standard & Poors that Croatia has been raised to an investment level after almost 7 years and with stable prospects, which is the decision we expected by the end of the term. The European Commission's report for 2019 established Croatia's exit from the long-term over-economic imbalances procedure, which confirms the correctness of the measures taken by the Government. Progress has been confirmed in the implementation of structural reforms and success has been recorded in the implementation of all four specific recommendations made by the European Commission compared to last year. I will also remind you that in 2017 we came out of the excessive budget deficit procedure, that we have raised GDP by 9.5% since 2016, that we have reduced the share of public debt from 80.6% to 74.5% of GDP, and the trend of public debt cuts is faster than any other EU member. Economic growth has continued to contribute also to reducing the corporate sector's debt, significant progress has been made in reducing poor credits, and production and service activities also contribute significantly to GDP, and personal consumption is expected to remain strong thanks to growth in employment and wages. When we talk about the fiscal framework, we made the tax system more transparent, simpler and focused on dialogue rather than punishment. At the beginning of this year, there were 3 rounds of tax reform and, among other things, a reduction in value added tax for certain products, and this should boost available income while reducing labour costs for employers should support investment activity. Even 85% of entrepreneurs in Croatia pay the lowest tax on profit because we have reduced our rate from 20 to 18% and to 12% for small and medium-sized enterprises, respectively. The VAT rates for all medicinal products have been reduced and 13% has been extended to fresh meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, eggs and the transport of live animals or trade in live animals. We've increased the untaxable amount of child-bearing benefits from 3.362 kuna to 10,000 kuna, increased benefits for unemployed parents, expanded the circle of children's extra charge to 150,000 children, introduced the ultimate supplement for 3 and 4 children. Soon a family card is introduced, built or restored about 500 kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia are worth only those investments of about 1.5 billion kuna. In an untaxable part of the income for workers' income has been increased from 2,500 kuna to 7,500 kuna. New tax incentives for research and development have also been introduced. The terms of funding and companies and citizens are much more favourable than before, and the uncertainty associated with the restructuring of Agrokor and which could, and by some probably should have led to a complete economic collapse of the entire state, are now actually almost completely removed. Thanks to economic recovery, the recovery of the Croatian labour market is also seen and employment growth is recorded. We increased the minimum wage to 3,000 kuna and 9%, respectively, compared to 2018, which is the largest one-time increase in minimum salary since 2008. In total, this is a minimum wage increase of 588 kuna, i.e. an increase of 23.58% in the government's mandate and in half of our mandate we have increased almost twice as much as the previous government. In the term of office of this government, the basis for the salary of our doctors, teachers, teachers, professors, police officers was increased by 11.36%. The average net salary in January 2016 was 5,646 kuna, and today slightly more than 6,400 and an increase of 754 kuna respectively. The current unemployment rate in February 2019 was 7.5%, and over the past two years we have raised the number of employees by more than 65,000 while the number of insurance companies has increased by 93,000. The average youth unemployment rate was also reduced from 50% in 2013 to 23.8% in 2018 and the youth unemployment rate was more than halved. In the first two years of the term of office, the RS government has singled out as much as 4.5 billion kuna for employment-enhancing programmes. This year, an additional 2 billion kuna will be invested in employment, out of which 1.5 billion for active employment policy measures financed mostly through the Ministry of Labour from the European Social Fund. We have further strengthened the self-employment measures and increased the amount of support from 35,000 to 70,000 kuna and also introduced the possibility of joining self-employment users by up to 5 people and then the maximum support is 275,000 kuna. When we talk about ensuring sustainability and suitability of the pension system, we implement a full pension reform that solves the generational inequality of pensioners, we ensure long-term stability of the pension system and greater and more favourable pensions. In the term of office of this government, pensions totalled 7.54%, and since 1 July 2019, the lowest pensions for more than 250,000 people will increase by an additional 3.13%. The economy is growing and thanks to the strong growth of the tourism sector, we have increased revenues from 8.6 billion to 12 billion euros, and it has been achieved from 106 million overnight stays, while, for example, in 2016 that number of overnight stays was 91 million. Through the 3 action plans for the administrative disbursement of the economy, we have charged more than 2 billion kunas, i.e. we have reduced administrative burdens so much. The liberalisation of the service market has been implemented through over 200 measures to remove barriers to freedom of service, on the internal market in a number of sectors and professions. EU services are also developed that allow for faster and simpler authorisation to perform many service activities and professions. The number of active business entities has increased by more than 20,000, while the number of registered business entities has increased by 7 thousand and 800. Since 1.4, the State Inspectorate has also been in place, meaning the legal framework for the pooling of inspection operations, which will positively affect the functioning of the market through the creation of a proactive approach to inspections, in the control of the business of economic operators. When we talk about EU funds, investment is growing and thanks to the increased absorption of EU funds, primarily investment in public infrastructure, the share of EU funds has been raised from 9% in 2016 to 64%, as far as it is today, is not a big difference, 55% higher, and the goal is to achieve 85% by the end of the year. So far we are within the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and I am glad that I can help this project as a Slavonac, unlike you, who unfortunately do not help it. We have arranged 9.2 billion kuna for Slavonia, or 49% of the planned funds. When we talk about state-owned assets, in order to create assumptions for more efficient management of state-owned assets and to speed up state-owned property procedures, a new regulatory framework has been adopted, a list of companies that are not intended for privatisation, has been reduced and rationalised. When we talk about public administration, rationalising the agency system and other legal entities with public authority, more than 40 agencies have been abolished, which is an institution, which companies do. The fiscal capacity of local administration and self-government units has been increased by the new Law on the financing of local and regional self-government. Some municipalities, especially those in Slavonia, have doubled their original budgets in undeveloped areas, and some even more than that and, of course, this government implements not only fiscal but functional decentralisation. In order to reduce the number of state officials, a new Law on State officials is being adopted. The implementation is a systematic legislative and institutional reform of the strategic planning and development management system. A national development strategy is being prepared by 2030, as well as a national agricultural strategy. When we talk about the judicial system, you still have an example today that the judicial system is functioning. In the reform of the judicial system, we reduced the number of pending cases by 12%, shortened the duration of resolution and increased the resolution rate to 104%, so today the courts are more resolved when we talk about the items that are coming in than the cases are being taken. A significant reduction in the number of pending cases older than 10 years has also been achieved. The reduction trend continues in 2019. We have introduced electronic communication in all commercial courts, a package of laws has been adopted that will strengthen judicial independence and organise a network of judicial authorities and improve the efficiency of the judicial system. With a special package of measures, we have unblocked more than 70,000 blocked citizens, and a new executive law that will soon be in the government will further assist our blocked citizens. When we talk about reforming the education and training system, there has also been significant progress made in the EU Commission's report. Education reforms have begun, amendments and additions to the Law on vocational education, national curricula for vocational education, the creation of a network of non-regional centres of competence and a new model of dual vocational education and training have been adopted. The e-school pilot project covering 151 schools is completed and is in the final phase of the preparation of a new e-school project covering all schools in the Republic of Croatia. In 11 vocational education institutions, the implementation of an experimental dual education programme began. When we talk about the health system, a legal framework for improving health care and guidance on better quality management of non-health activities has been adopted. Amendments to the Health Protection Act plan to strengthen primary health care and the development of health tourism. A national hospital development plan has been adopted and it has started functional integration of hospitals intending to rationalise hospital operations and improve access to healthcare. Of course, we are also aware of the problems, when we talk about financing the health sector and we are doing everything, unlike the previous governments, to solve this problem and to ensure long-term stability and finance when we talk about the health system sector. I'd stop here now because in 15 minutes he can't tell everything he's supposed to say, but I'd like to mention one thing, I spent two hours, gentlemen of the SDP, to find this famous document, which was theoretically, so try to find it on your website. Unfortunately, when we sum up everything during your term, what you left us, you said everything was great and wonderful, you left us definitely a huge drop in GDP, paid off by EU funds 0%, growth in deficits, public debt growth, a decline in ratings at the lowest possible level, playing with pay grade, and a reduction in salaries for people who had 4 or 5 thousand kuna. 350 thousand unemployed, a complete drop in human production or what you kept quiet, and the citizens did not forget, gentlemen, so it was you who destroyed the budget of all Croatian citizens, raising VAT from 23% to 25%. You've forgotten that, but it doesn't matter. We believed things were fine. And we made a mistake, correcting your mistakes. Every school is expensively paid, and so is ours, the only one who doesn't pay is the school from Davor Bernardić who, although it costs 263,000 kuna, is probably the only one free in the Republic of Croatia. These other schools of yours pay dearly, but we will correct all your problems and regardless of all the indifferences you have left us we will help and we will do everything we can to make our citizens better and more worthy of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136562	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. We have 28 replicas, so let's go. The first is a colleague of Grumo's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136563	Thank you. Dear Ministers, or Honored Deputy Prime Minister, boast the fact, or growth of GDP, means Croatian GDP, since the Croatian government has led this axis of HDZ and the HNS has started to slow down significantly. For example, in 2016, for the mandate of Prime Minister Oreshkovic, it grew at 3.5% and in 2018 it has already slowed to 2.6%. This speaks of your results, that is, the work of this government. And when you talk about the justice system working, that's how we could hear you here, so for 10 years, this process has lasted Evey Sanader and you claim that the judiciary works. What's the data? The European Commission of 2018 of as much as 60% means this government, i.e. in Croatia there is corruption of the judiciary. That's worse than Serbia, it's worse than Mozambique and you're boasting about the results of the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136564	Comrade Grmo, thank you. Thank you, fellow Grmoe, for taking care of the weather. You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136565	And since you didn't listen, I'm going to repeat again, during this government's term of office, GDP has increased by 9.5%. The latest report by the European Commission particularly praised the progress made in the judiciary sector. I am glad that the European Commission is looking at it a little more gently than you are looking at, but I understand you and your attitude, you have the right to be angry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136566	Comrade Dobrović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136567	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you did not specifically refer to demographic policy, however, we will all agree that this policy is very important for the development of the Republic of Croatia, with one ministry, and bearing a name appropriate. However, if you look at the draft Energy Strategy, you will find projections of demographic development by 2050 for the Republic of Croatia and these projections move between the rapid and the strong and even faster loss of the population of Croatia. For me, too, this is a rather demotive but official forecast with nothing but a certain announcement of demographic failure, hence the failure of demographic policy, i.e. the lack of that policy at all. So I wonder if you are aware that official strategic documents project the demographic collapse of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136568	Thank you, colleague Dobrović. Please be dimensional for a minute, take care of it. Would you like the minister's answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136569	So once again, when we talk about demographic, demographic policy, from the construction of kindergarten, we are aware of the situation of a billion and 700, or a billion and 800 million kuna, at all levels, is investing in the demographic sector annually. All possible fees have been increased and, of course, no results can be seen within one year or two, what still shows some positive indicators that still last year in 2018 we have a greater number of newborn children than in previous years which gives us some hope that these things we do, although they will give results only in the long term that they will be visible hopefully for some long time Croatians and Croats of young people and others will be more in Croatia in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136570	Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136571	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. You say respected Ministers, the tax system we've made simpler and more transparent in exactly three rounds of tax reform, there's actually not a single mayor or mayor here who can't say that his increased budgets aren't because we gave up taxes on the income of municipalities and cities. But that's why, at 1.1.2019, we further charged the citizens 3 billion kuna, we reduced VAT from 25% to 13% and actually made the consumer basket more acceptable to Croatian citizens, given the VAT and fresh meat, fruits, vegetables and diapers, but we should say that we reduced VAT to medicines from 25% to 5%, i.e. real estate tax from 4% to 3%. So this should be repeated as long as it takes, because if we remember what they did to the Kukurik coalition and its partners, we're actually going to get results that fascinate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136572	Answer, please. A colleague of Tolusic's? Minister, nothing? Okay. Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136573	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I support everything listed and everything positive that has been done but in your presentation I have listened carefully there is absolutely nothing to be said about reforming all reforms in Croatia, it is a public administration reform. I regret that there is no minister of administration here, especially when we know that according to the economic index of competitiveness, the World Economic Forum of Croatia is the efficiency of public administration among the last successful countries in the world. We rank Venezuela and other African countries. Let me remind you of 2015. The Assembly adopted the Public Administration Development Strategy, 2016. The government adopted an action plan, in 2017 a confirmation came from the European Commission where we were granted 870 million kuna of grants for public administration reform. Every year we run out of 65,000 inhabitants, natural growth and more and public administrations are booming. If you can explain that to me logically.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136574	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136575	Thank you, Mr. Pranic. Well, of course, I don't agree with you, I think that in the public administration sector, we can count on it, so in some way and local administration, from laws that have been passed or being prepared, from EU projects that have prepared previous governments, this government finally implements them, a single management post, a centre of shared services and all those eu projects that are being financed and operating from the depolitisation of public administration, means the law on state officials that solves the whole story, the Law on civil servants that is absolutely in preparation and all the things that we want to do and the different system of rewarding our civil servants goes with that we have a more professional, more quality, I hope a much, much more efficient administration than we have so far. The administration must surely make more serious progress than it has been in the last 10 or 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136576	Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136577	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I must say, when you read this argument from the government, which is how the government works, you didn't believe it yourself. You've seen it in every sentence of yours. The biggest GDP Croatia will have, when we remain as little as possible, because the only thing growing in Croatia is GDP per capita, which is because the population is moving out and moving out. Also when you talk about demographics, how much you took the child's allowance, 200 kn, and for the last law on the financing of the promotion of political parties, you actually gave 5000 kn for political action by the representative in the county, 2400 kn per child, 5000 kn for the representative. You can see what this government is spending money on. And as for public administration reform, you've made an action, a transfer, from the agency to the ministry, where many came from. In total, 17 million kunas were agreed, i.e. at the request of compensation, paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136578	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136579	Dear Mrs Cikotic, you certainly did nothing to help us, while you were at the Ministry of Administration and not even at the Ministry of Regional Development, so please do not talk about the results. I've done my part, as far as demographic restoration is concerned, and I hope to be able to do some more things in the future. I'm going back to a billion and 800 million kus, which we lie about in demographics in every way possible, and it's very incorrect to compare it with other things. So, everything we do, then it seemed 5, 10, 15 or 20 years ago, and during the previous HDZ governments, it would certainly have contributed to today or in 5 years we have many more children and many more young people in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136580	Here you are, colleague Chikotic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136581	30 Honored President of the Croatian Parliament, he is injured. In 238, given that the Deputy Prime Minister abuses the response and refers personally to my work so far, and we are also not personally interested in how much he helped with the demographic restoration in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136582	No, no, no, I'll be obvious, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you reacted here as a replica. You also mentioned what is particularly interesting to me, that you feel personally, so here everything is crawling with personal accusations, from all the opposition clubs, so please, and also from the ruling ones. So I'm asking you not to react to that kind of thing, abuse your rules of procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Now it's your turn, dear fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136583	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. In your discussion, you spoke about VAT and this was referred to by your party colleague, Mr Babic, and you spoke about congenital results, VAT reductions to certain products. However, statistics say something quite different. Statistics show that meat prices rose at the annual level in January. Statistics say that fish, fruit, dairy, and according to what I was able to find, the recordr is vegetables, which increased by 4.6% annually. Anything with VAT on the computer. Now, I'm asking you, you were happily announcing, before the adoption of that tax package, that you will personally persecute all those who do not reduce prices. As we can see, prices haven't dropped, and I'm asking you, what have you done about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136584	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136585	Well first of all, you're processing standard incorrect data, again I'm telling you, you're the last one to talk about VAT, you and Mr Bernardic raised it from 23% to 25% at the time of your term of office. Our statistics say otherwise, a lot of products are reduced, i.e. a reduced rate of value added tax was put in at 12 months. Last year. Some things are viewed statistically differently in the data of the State Statistics Institute, what we are checking, there are some deviations, there are trade chains, who have respected it all, all those who stand down will certainly end up on a pillar of shame. I call on you to be involved in this, lest you elaborate like this, but try to visit, and find out where it is, where it has not been reduced, so speak freely and take it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136586	My fellow coat of arms, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136587	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 236 of the Rules of Procedure, since the Honorable Vice-President, I apologize for my 238th lapus, since the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister insulted the State Statistics Office, since the data I found came from the website of the State Statistics Office. And if I'm processing incorrect data, then it means that the State Statistics Service is not doing its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136588	A fellow coat of arms, Art. In 238, it doesn't say that the State Statistics Institute must be offended, so I'm going to have to give you a warning, because this was a pure replica, a pure replica. Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague Maras, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136589	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tolusic, in this exposé of his, probably, you have failed to refer to all the evils that the HDZ has done in the past, today one came out in the light of the day, which is stealing the HDZ President Ivo Sanader, and since you are the project Mr. Kirin, who boasted that Fima Media was sucking money from the Ministry of the Interior, I wonder if it could be concluded that by sucking up the money to Fimi Media from the Ministry of the Interior, as a project funded today's Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136590	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136591	Thank you, Mr. Maras, I think we can do it in a magazine tone, if you want, it's not a problem, whoever's convicted is convicted of his actions, and that's how it should be, and I'm glad it is. Please don't, according to your convicted members, because you have them on the line and don't jump into your mouth and say things that you don't stand behind. You have a series of colleagues, who are today the presidents of the city committees, I don't know if they hear it from the party president who are legally convicted. I don't know if you can hear me, boys, you've got the president of your side's city board who's been convicted. ... Well, I think Mr. Sabo, for instance. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And it's normal for you, and now you're calling someone for other things, so I mean, no problem, I think we can discuss the metrics, we can do this anyway, I think this is bad, but if we want to, and so we can, and so, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136592	Thank you very much. I'm asking you only, Vice President, that you don't call MPs and MPs boys and girls but MPs. ... No, no, so that it doesn't turn into that kind of debate, please, let's keep to the heights of everyone sitting here. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Now it's my dear colleague Pernar's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136593	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the Government. You are currently the Minister of Agriculture and your prime minister is represented as a prominent anti-corruption fighter, a great European. And Ivo Sanader, the predecessor of your current boss, was portrayed as a anti-corruption fighter and a European, however, today's verdict has shown that this is not like the judgment of the then Minister of Agriculture, Cobankovic, who confessed and settled, but if all is great, then explain why you are forcing the pensioners to work until 67 years old, why he collects electricity, water, gas, which makes it more difficult for the pensioners to live and ultimately, if it is true that Croatia is going in the right direction, then continues the escape of young people from Croatia, and why in fact our country becomes desolate and especially the village that you are God forbid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136594	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136595	Thank you to your former party colleague, Mr. Pernar. First of all, I'm saying again if we're going to go down to a personal level, I don't think that's good, and we don't need to do that. The peace system wasn't sustainable, so we reformed it, I would love it, and maybe it would be better if everyone retired at 50 but couldn't and couldn't handle it. I think you know that well, if you don't understand something, there's Mr. Pavić, whenever you want to come to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System to explain everything to you, to show you everything. It's not a story for you and for me, but I hope for our children who will have some quieter and more serious age, and not how it should have remained the system that's left. All the measures we take, of course there are no visible results in some segments there are, in some there are, within a year or two, this has never happened within a year or two. Everything we do in the sector of agriculture, economy, administration, the judiciary will produce results and I am glad that the citizens of this country recognise it at least by the results of the survey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136596	Thank you. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136597	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the actually tested guarantees the government has set aside in a very short time of $3.1 billion, about here, according to the statements we've received. Now we see that the wholesalers have significantly pointed to the debts that are about 2 billion to them, so I would ask a very simple question. Why doesn't the government react in the same way so that they can settle these debts to relieve hospitals because here today, I have two hospitals in the county, they have debts, means a negative financial result, almost 200 million kunas and liabilities over 200 million, thus breaking the quality of services to patients, endangering the local economy, and the prime minister himself said that the government's action plan is to bring down these debts and we see it growing, so please answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136598	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136599	Thank you, Mr. Panenich. As for the protested guarantees of $3.1 billion that the government unfortunately paid in the 12th month. last year and 1st month. This year, I wish we hadn't paid them, unfortunately we paid them for the delivered, unbuilt ships that some had forgotten but these are guarantees that must be paid, the state couldn't not pay them. Of course, the debt in the hospital and health system exists for ten years, we're trying to reduce it would be one failed attempt to extract it from the treasury that I think failed, we're doing everything we can to make this and that system and those problems work out and we're going to try and we'll definitely settle the debts that have come across a certain deadline and everything else. But they just need to do things the right way and slowly and properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136600	Now it's my friend Bulj's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136601	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you say everything is nice, wonderful, everything is positive, but as tourism grows, imports grow. So 3 billion euros is approaching the import of food, at the same time by a billion and a half less importing, which means that agriculture is absolutely collapsed. You say you've arranged a number of projects... Project Slavonia, how many projects have you achieved? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you talk about health care, in the health care of the Dalmatian Zagora we have no pediatrician, there is nowhere for parents to examine their child. We're just praying to God that the Metkovic case doesn't happen. So we've got a lot of problems, Minister, and listen to these problems, it's not all great. I know you want to show it, but open your eyes to these lights and know in the Dalmatian Zagora, here's a colleague, Babic, who will confirm, colleague Šipic, that everything is not great. To make ends disappear. Schools, health care facilities are empty, everything is empty, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136602	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136603	Yes, we know that the problem is and we solve these problems unlike all previous governments. In Slavonia, both in Lika and Zagora and wherever we can, whether you like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136604	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136605	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Tolusic, you have spoken a lot about your successes, but you have not boasted of one success, it is a violation of the next will and in fact a repression of the People's referendum decides on the electoral system. So you have avoided talking about this issue, so Mr. Lovre Kuščević has spoken of it, and I now invite you here to publicly state what you think about the fact that the election will of the people is broken by a referendum, so by the non-transparent process of your counting votes and not by taking into account the alleged non-relevant signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136606	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136607	Well, I think we normally have the wrong information you and I. As far as I know, as far as the whole procedure is concerned by the referendum, everything is absolutely legal and legal, now I don't know what's not clear to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136608	Comrade Sagittarius, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136609	Thank you. I'm sorry that you're here and you have to answer the question about health care because we haven't had the right answer in a very long time, no structural reform in the field of health has been carried out. There are currently 8 billion deficits, every month debt, every month 150 million new, but I'm going to tell you something scandalous that happened these days. You know, last year, the minister, the second Minister Kujundzic Bosnjakovic, asked him about it and wanted to influence the decision-making of courts in favour of the doctor because no overtime was paid. And you know what he did? He again wrote a letter to the court in Bjelovar that he would now react to it from a few days ago, Supreme Court President Djuro Sessa said it was a reinterference to what is not really his intelligence. Instead of solving doctors because it's 3 billion kunas they're going to have to pay off. Ministry of Health Doctors [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He's trying to influence the court again. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleagues of Srenja.]] It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136610	Then we'll have 13 replicas, a fellow Greek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136611	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, you know very well that economic growth in Croatia has been achieved since mid-2014 and the highest quarterly rate has been achieved so far in 3rd quarter of 2015 3.5%. You can check it out and I hope it won't take you two hours to do that, but I wanted to ask you something else. So, how do you interpret that, with all that you've listed, that the pension for a million and 200 thousand pensioners on average is currently 2450 kuna, that the prices of gas, electricity, communals are rising, that people are already over half their pensions paying for directors. How do you think pensioners can live for 1,300 grand a month? This reform of yours doesn't solve it, that's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136612	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136613	... The average pension is 2650 kuna and it is small and should certainly be bigger and we are working to make it bigger and we have raised it and you have probably raised it, if from all the minuses I have seen in your reports, I am not quite sure about it and we will do everything to make these pensions bigger in the future. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So why didn't you raise them to three thousand kuna? Because you couldn't. We are structured slowly, in a normal way, increasing this so as not to destroy the state budget. And we are aware absolutely that these are extremely small amounts with which our pensioners live and we will do everything we can to make your amounts bigger and better for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136614	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136615	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister. If you remember when the legislation was passed from the reform tax package, that I said that reducing VAT on food products would not achieve the desired effect, I even broke the law here, alluding to not benefit from that law, and now after 3 months I can say that I was right and that Minister Maric, and also the government was not able to reduce the price of food products, raise the purchasing power of our citizens and agricultural production, because agricultural production was growing only 3%. The prices of agricultural food products according to the respected economist Šonj fell only 0.9% when it comes to the food group, i.e. some 3.5% per meat, 4.5% per vegetable. What are you planning to do? You didn't do anything other than keep citizens going to Bosnia and Serbia to buy food? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136616	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136617	So standard, Mr. Vlaovic, you're telling false information. 9.3% is reduced price for fruit, 3.5% for meat, including meat processing that has not been reduced to VAT, it is only brought down to fresh meat. So much we could read the statistical data available to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136618	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136619	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. I'll start with the Slavonia project. The Slavonia project is pure PR. Clean. And until there are new operational plans, Slavonia won't get anything that doesn't belong to her anyway. This is just a list of everything that LAGs, development agencies and all possible other projects are doing, that is, you and everyone who has been dealing with EU funds and how well you know, even though I believe you are proudly involved in spins and untruths. But let's talk about these reforms. One medium reveals, an avalanche of claims over EU funds in agriculture, threatens Croatia with damages of half a billion kuna. Or, uh, did the state land register... No lease agreement? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In... Belje Plus d.o.o., although according to the information they have, one OPG association, the municipality of Petlovac did not sign the Anex contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or support for farmers 1.2 billion kuna, and never less production. Or, the data that Mariana Petir received recently is correct, Croatia is at 22 seats with 25% paid [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Users, I can list you by tomorrow. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136620	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136621	So I can list for you the growth of agricultural production, at 17 billion kunas, 10% more than in some past periods. 90% of the competitions under the Rural Development Programme, 60% agreed, 30% paid out in the Slavonia project, agreed 9.2 billion kuna. The World Bank in its reports particularly highlighted and praised the Slavonia project, provided special technical assistance, and also as Commissioner for Regional Development, who was also in Slavonia there and talked about this programme + all projects that are being done + coolants going to Slavonia + rural development programme where most of the money actually went to Slavonia. Should I keep counting or stop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136622	Comrade Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136623	Thank you, President HS, Your Honor. In your debate, you looked back at demographics. This particular government has given special importance to demographics through the Ministry of Demography, but also a series of laws that we have passed right here in HS, so we have increased support for the birth of a child by 50%, by another 6 months. There is an increased fee for unemployed parents, there is an extended circle of children's extras, a potential supplement of 500 kuna for the 3rd and 4th children, this hour is being restored and built over 300 kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia, 4.5 billion kunas are being invested to encourage employment, and here I will look back on the project Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja, where 9.2 billion kuna for Slavonia has been agreed so far, which is certainly a beautiful figure, of course we expect a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136624	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136625	Well, here, just as one answer to your exposure, I'm just going to add stuff from the Ministry of Agriculture, of these stories that you've listed, 200 kindergartens are building the Ministry of Agriculture, and it's mostly in municipalities that haven't seen and haven't had, and it's huge progress for those kids who live in those settlements, and it's certainly going to help keep these people alive and that these kids go to those kindergartens. I would like to point out the measure for young farmers where we have approved the last tender for all those who have come forward and in all our tenders we are actually giving priority to young farmers, we are funding higher amounts in the support system and when I talk about direct support and support from the rural development programme. And also, the Agricultural Land Act tops the priorities of just young farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136626	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136627	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. For almost 3 decades, we have witnessed the failure of debt recoverys in health care, and I would like to conclude that an additional 3.2 billion kuna has been delivered to the health care government only in the term of this government, and that at this point, the health care will breach the budget for another 2 billion and 200 million kuna. So only in the term of office of Minister Kujundzic, i.e. in your term of office, in the course of 2.5 years, has the government charged itself with a catastrophic 5 billion and 400 million kuna of unplanned expenses, which is even more than for Uljanik. Those responsible for the Ulnik have been arrested, so I wonder if someone will finally be responsible for the terrible losses in health care or will they have to pay Croatian taxpayers again as well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136628	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136629	The Croatian Government is doing everything possible to ensure that the Croatian health system is sustainable, that our patients have as much medicine as they need, we build 50 hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, we finance specialists, we provide with local and regional self-government of apartments and other capacities that they need, and we do everything with the emergency medicine that we are building with all other training to make this health system as good as possible. Of course there are a lot of problems in all of this, there are, but we try to solve these problems and fight to find the right way to solve these challenges and solve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136630	Comrade Turina-Djuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd say after you've been exposed that anyone who didn't listen to their colleagues before that presentation, that's to say that we live in a promised country, in a country in which it's desirable to live, but what's an evaluation of the work of this government, I think he's saying everything. Number of occupancy of the Republic of Croatia in the last 2 years. They have given an assessment of the work of this government, saying quite clearly that they do not want to live in a country managed by HDZ, and the best example of how the HDZ is managed within this country where the government has always been Lika-Sen County, where there are fewer people, where all the people who live there work in state firms or in companies that are connected to the state. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136632	Answer, please. There's no answer, so let's go to a colleague named Sanja Putic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136633	Here is the vice-president of the Croatian Government today in the Assembly with concrete figures, and then it was worth hearing these figures as much as the opposition, I believe, aware of its inability and governmental capabilities. Whoever wants reform processes for our fellow citizens is best seen today from the parliamentary debate because we, as parliamentary representatives, and the public today, are witnessing another usurpation of the time of work of this Assembly because instead of passing laws, we are discussing laws that the government has already referred to in terms of further reforms in the parliamentary procedure, we are wasting time here once again on something that is clear and especially on their standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136634	Answer, please. There's no answer. Then let's go to our esteemed colleague Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136635	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. I am very pleased that you mentioned the European Social Fund and the funds withdrawn from it for employment within the Ministry of War and Pensions. We all know how well-accepted active employment policy measures are and how well they have already produced good results. I'll just mention a few good things that this government has done for people with disabilities in the last two and a half years. 180 million kuna was paid to encourage employment. It shall only take place in 2018. 81 million kuna for integrated and protective workshops and I don't get there anymore. But I'm just gonna mention a personal disability. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] 200 million kuna increase. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136636	Here you go, answer me. No, then, colleague Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136637	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Government. It is necessary to keep in mind that the government's objective is to keep economic growth, sustainability of public finances, stability, which is demonstrated by all these ratings that have been raised twice in this government's term and we must not forget that in the 2012-2015 term, the ratings have been reduced twice. We must also say that our country's economic growth is 2.6.7% depending on the year, but also on macroeconomic developments, and that this is significantly higher than the EU average. We should also say that industrial production has also increased in the last two months.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136638	Let's move on, dear fellow Falcon. It's just a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136639	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, it's quite said here in the judiciary, so here I would just say the figures, which the colleagues of the SDP don't like very much, which is that at the end of 2015 we had 559 thousand unsolved cases in the judiciary, and at the end of 2017 that figure was 97 thousand less. So we had about 20% of the outstanding cases, rather than when the SDP happily freed us of its power. So I think that's enough talking about what, who's really implementing justice reform, who's taking care of the state, who's implementing structural reforms, and who's using this assembly to get a little media... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136640	Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136641	Maybe I'll just deepen that information with respect to the judiciary. Thus, a reduction in the number of pending cases, older than 10 years in 2007 was a reduction of 16% in municipal courts of 23% in commercial courts, while a further reduction of 23% in the number of cases occurred in 2018 compared to 2017, in municipal and 13% in commercial courts. I would like the SDP government to be so capable, so all these problems have been solved by the backlogs in cases, not yet increased the percentage compared to the one before them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136642	Now she's a colleague of the Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, she's a little quiet on this left side of the assembly, I may be recalculating myself at that stage, so if I were to mention some bills and numbers, I'd just like to briefly refer to something that, in my Međimurje, has been significantly echoed, and as far as health care is concerned, we've heard that in your presentation, so only over 100 million kunas in Međimurje County, in the past two years, investments that haven't been made in the past 20 years. You have briefly referred to the agricultural segment, so I would just like you to supplement it a little bit, to remind yourself of what is in that reform sense and legislative sense brought from the agriculture sector and 314 measures if I am not mistaken, this year will be worth 626 million kn. When we consider it all, there we can say, someone excludes me from it, then we can say that we also have the added value of EU membership, which we didn't talk about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136644	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136645	Thank you, Mrs. Glavak, when we talk about the Ministry of Agriculture, practically all the laws that should have been passed, which are of a reform character and which, let's say, the great laws have been passed, in the first two years of the term of office, from there, the last law, the Law on Wine, which you adopted a few days ago, which makes it easier for 12 million kunas to impose on our winemakers and winemakers, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Forests, the Law on Hunting, the Law on the OPG and a series of other laws that I don't have them all now. When we talk about health care, yes, it's done a lot in Međimurje, I would mention one project, there's no colleagues from Slavonia, it hasn't lasted long enough, soon I'm going to sign a design contract and then build a new KBC in Osijek, for a hospital in mud and for a number of other things that have waited 10 years to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136646	Now she's a colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136647	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, it is clear that you have been well prepared in the report by this section regarding education, so you have pointed out, because you have been so prepared, that you have completed the pilot project of digitally mature schools, that this is true, however, they have not told you that this project is related to 307 million kuna, in its first phase, the pilot phase, in fact something that has been inherited, by the government of Zoran Milanovic. Secondly, you pointed out the regional competence centres that you set up, they wrote it nicely to you, but they also didn't tell you, they didn't mention, that the preconditions, for that, also in the operational programmes, two, I particularly point out... And you know it well, they're also, something that's inherited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without making assumptions, you couldn't work. However, they have not pointed out to you, and this also warns you that the European Commission, that two key things One key reform, a full curricula reform, you're not really [[Intruder President: Thank you.]] You've spent it, but you've ruined it. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleagues Voter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136648	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136649	Thank you Mrs. Glasovac, I'll check to see if we've inherited it from you, but I can tell you, if you didn't know that the public procurement for the e-school project was being conducted in 2016, then I was still at the Ministry of Regional Affairs, so by chance I remember and was at the signing of the contract at CARNET, so you didn't leave much, if you left. And the centres of competence with all due respect, since the founders of schools in most of the county in my eight years as mayor, and for four years during your term, you never once called the mayor at the Ministry of Education and Sports, and not one, written, oral or any pigeon writer, you talked and talked about the centres of competence. So if you didn't know that, now I'm introducing you to that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136650	Here you go, fellow Mattelian.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136651	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you've brought out a whole series of positive movements in your 15 minutes. Does this one grow GDP per capita? It's growing. Unemployment's dropping? It's going down. Even the European finding is visible, especially in that part of rural development. However, despite all these crucial successes, in the league in which Croatia plays today, which is the EU, therefore, not yesterday, but today, we are still on all indicators at the bottom or bottom. So we are still the country that has one of the most inefficient public administrations, we are still the state that is the most centralised in the EU of EUR 10.7 billion of EU funds only every EUR 5 has reached the end-user. So I ask you, Mr. Tolusic, how's that? It's somebody's fault, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136652	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136653	Thank you, so I'm surprised that you're the one who's answering because we've talked a few times and signed contracts for your community and your community is being funded, which, kindergarten and what else, is something else when we're talking about the rural development sector, and I'm glad that's true. I would like that in 2015, when this rural development programme was adopted, that there were competitions for kindergartens, that you got the money in 2015, but you didn't get them just 2018, because no one moved their fingers about it in 2015. I'm going to say again 90% of total competitions when we're talking about a rural development programme called, 60% agreed, by the end of the year I hope 90%, and somewhere around 30% more is already paid to end-users. This year we will open 100% competitions and hopefully by the end of next year we will pay maybe 100% to Croatian farmers. And I hope to come to the opening year of kindergarten in your community.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136654	A fellow Mattelian injures the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136655	Article 386 has been injured 3, 28, 238, the famous Article 238, namely this, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, exclusively this apostrophe of my person, wishes to justify something that is visible in itself. [[/Intruder: Which one?]] So you can state everything, so my municipality was receiving EU funds both in 2004 and in 2005 and in 2006 and in 2007 and 2015 means probably in 2021 and 2022 when you are no longer present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136656	Comrade Little Man, this was a replica this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Now it's, well I've already forgiven you I can't, I can't do it twice. You're my colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136657	Dear Vice President, I'm going to read you a proposal for two conclusions to this interpretation. The first government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report to the Croatian Parliament within 15 days on the implementation of the National Reform Programme so far, and the second Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report every 2 months to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the National Reform Programme. From what you've said, you can't wait for these conclusions and our interpretations to be accepted to report to us that you can boast about how these reforms are implemented. That would be a logical conclusion, right, see? Now, I've had this in my ear that you've been looking for Plan 21 on the Internet for 2 hours, well 2 hours it's not very little, and I think as a minister you have and smarter spend those 2 hours, my advice this plan 21 has been translated into a programme of the government of the Republic of Croatia which is located on parliamentary sites, and when you talk about that government party that had economics, culture, foreign affairs and the construction of vice presidents for social activities and vice presidents of the economy support your government [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So you talk more carefully about this government. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136658	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. Just a second, I've got one intervention from my colleague Vučetić, and you're as far as I understand you're asking for a break, right? If I may ask you, we still have a reply to the replica and two replicas, and then we'll finish this block afterwards. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136659	Mr. Bauk, I absolutely agree with you as soon as you adopt the interpretation when you have the majority in the assembly, we will be glad to answer all that. And what else did you ask? Here, I invite all parliamentary representatives to go to the SDP site, if you find your program on those pages, this menu will be, I will be extremely glad, maybe I'm not searching your site, try to find it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136660	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136661	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, I'm glad you brought it out, but they don't mean anything to them, they just come here to have a little fun with these interpretations, and then at the end when the vote concludes that they haven't gathered and that HDZ is guilty of it. Just like every time I've done it. Now you mention this Plan 21, you know what they did with it, they found in the last year of the term that it was one figurative solution or some kind of document and that they didn't promise anyone anything. And when you didn't promise anyone anything, you didn't do anything, you shouldn't have done anything. And of course they seemed successful. And none of them can deny it. Here's the pension case, they bring in in 2014 67 years of retirement and then they say you're doing nothing after pension reform, we offer them a reform, they're against, they go outside and now they say we're gonna invite all the members to sign that we're against what we suggested in 2014 And then they're surprised to get 3% in Lika-Senj County. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136662	Thank you. Answer? There isn't. And then we're going to the last line of our esteemed colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136663	Thank you very much Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President Croatia has come out of excessive deficit measures over the past few months, no more macroeconomic imbalances and credit ratings have been increased. With clear reasons why this happened and what was well done and what had to be done. And if what we've been listening to for the past two hours on the other side of the assembly were true, we'd be fat in the measures and the European Commission today, and the credit agencies would cut our ratings fat. What is the reason why they did this to Croatia, is their data accurate or is the exact data we listen to every day? And one more thing, what is said in this assembly remains written, so some in 2012 boasted that they had restructured Croatian shipbuilding and that they would no longer need to invest money, and then in 2014, in 2015, they pump up 3.5 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136664	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136665	Of course, the European Commission and the rating agency did not give the government this much support because the government was doing nothing, but just the opposite because it works a lot. In this segment the results are seen and all indicators are positive unlike previous indicators that were not positive as much as anyone was angry, angry at all of this. We want structured, stable, normal economic growth and progress in each segment. We don't make decisions overnight, we try to think things the right way, and that's how we deal with problems. This economic growth and all that we have, all these problems with Agrokor, with all these things have been achieved, Agrokor, which we no longer talk about, where we could really have collapsed, not Croatian economies when we talk about Agrokor, but a complete financial system in the Republic of Croatia, with all this raised ratings on the investment level, came out of all the possible problems in which we were, and achieved a surplus of the state budget. Well, I think there's something good going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136666	Thank you. Thank you. Now I'm going to ask my colleague, Vučetić, to explain the break, the request for a break, and thank you again for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136667	Thank you. I'd like to ask on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club for a ten-minute break. We listened very carefully to all that was happening and the way the Deputy Prime Minister was responding, so it seems to me that perhaps we should consider that this point is not called the Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the failure of the Government, but rather to be renamed to the Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to succeed in the failure of the Government. Why? If we now have one piece of information in mind, which is that the number of pending cases is dropping, and that the government has experienced success in the number of pending cases in the judiciary, then I can congratulate the Government on the fact that today one such case has been solved, and that is a condemnation to the Prime Minister of the former, Sanader. Furthermore, we have learned that the Croatian health system is sustainable, we have learned that we are achieving demographic growth as if we were some kind of manicalization syndrome, that we are living in a system that records growth in all segments. Therefore, we now remain as the Independent Representatives' Club to leave this session, which the Government has almost made possible for us to meet with reforms, or to be absolutely clear, in reforms you are successful to the extent that the Government is now present in the Assembly. At this very level, and in the outside world, in the world outside of this House, we will meet with these growing demographic tendencies, with a sustainable health system, and that is to say, we are meeting with a government that has failed, and this is exactly the tragedy of today's political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136668	Okay. I'm going to approve a request of course for a break and we'll continue at 18 hours and 10 minutes. SESSION Interrupted at 1800 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136669	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.10 HOURS]] We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136670	Thank you, Vice President. At the outset, we must refer to the fact that we are discussing impellation for a full year after it was adopted and that did not happen with the Parliament's majority's will but forcefully, by force of the SDP colleagues' signature. I would be most fortunate if I could say that the debate on this interpretation has ceased to be current, that the government has implemented or implemented serious structural reforms, that Croatia is progressing from day to day, that this progress is visible and that it is felt by our citizens. I also wish I could shake hands with the representatives of the government who sit here and congratulate them on their successes and on their work. Unfortunately, I can't do that. All in all, watching where we were in April 2018 and where we are today, I see no serious progress. Croatia is a country that is trapped in political corruption and other corruption, we could call it vulgar or street corruption that takes place daily in all the pores of our society. In Croatia, bribes and bribes are bribed for jobs, for promotion, for political functions, for going to medical examinations, for speeding up or resolving court proceedings. In Croatia, the very awareness of the permitted and illegal, legal and illegal has been destroyed. Faith in morality, ethics and honor of high-ranking people has been destroyed and should prevent moral corruption but in Croatia it is quite the opposite and all this is not a coincidence. Moreover, all this was done on purpose and targeted, directed by those who have been burning and burning Croatia for the past few decades. All important state systems are scattered, health care, education, justice, social care, public administration. They are distributed to unrecognizable so that they cannot function effectively beyond the reach and influence of politicians and politicians. In such a system every citizen, every entrepreneur, every potential investor has no choice. If he wants to live and work, he must submit to the will of politicians, those who have power and power in their own hands and for their right to live, be educated, treated or right to work, the average man to a colleague, Bacic, must pay the price. What I'm talking about can be illustrated on examples, on recent examples of which the Croatian public has engaged. The first example I want to talk about is an educational story about the absence of criteria of success and excellence and concerns the famous case of honorary doctorate to a worthy citizen. In itself, the interesting public, since it refers to an active politician, has caused numerous controversy in the academic community but also in the general public, but this case must not be seen in isolation, it is part of the Croatian educational reality in which we have seen worrying trends in recent years. Honorary doctorates are assigned to persons in positions of authority and power and also to persons with serious problems with the judiciary. On the other hand, we see another interesting trend where both the highest state and the highest judicial officials enter postgraduate studies after they have been selected or appointed to very high and certainly demanding functions. All of the above cases have raised public suspicions that the highest academic titles in Croatia are in fact the criteria of excellence and academic work or the acquisition of these titles are influenced by the authority of the powers that our highly positioned PhDs have at their disposal? Such suspicious situations leave a bitter taste in the public and especially in the part of the academic community, which has gained its academic titles and titles with honest and hard work. It is not easy to notice that the Croatian universities and especially our oldest and oldest university, the one in Zagreb, on the relevant world scales have fallen into the area of inrecognition, it is time to ask ourselves is a lit chance or there is some correlation. Another example is a situation that has arisen around a seriously ill girl whose parents, relatives, and friends in despair have launched an action to raise funds for her expensive treatment abroad. In this situation of extreme urgency, when each hour is selected, people have once again been solidarityd, organised and collected the necessary funds within a record period, in contrast, state institutions, the Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance in similar cases act extremely ineffective. The committees are based on which they debate the vindication of these expensive medical procedures and which decides who will be treated and whom the treatment will be denied and the Croatian citizens have shown countless times so far that they are willing to make the best possible treatment available to everyone in Croatia in due time. They are willing, of course, to feel that their money is being spent justly, reasonably, and rationally, that the state has their money at its disposal in the manner of a good master rather than an outlaw. When we have examples like this where citizens are practically self-organizing, it is evidence that the institutions of counterpart Kovac do not exist, let alone recognize the state of emergency or act in due time. Only in these two examples are all the misery of the state apparatus, its inhumanity, its indifference, its corruption, and its separation from every objective reality. Many have decided to say goodbye to such a corrupt system, they said goodbye to their families and Croatia as soon as they fell and the last barriers began the stampede of our people in search of a better life, for new life opportunities. Hundreds of thousands have embarked on their quest for happiness outside Croatia, and this government daily reports with its work or unhappiness that they have made a good decision and that they do not need to return. We often hear messages from the government that the problems they face exist from before, that this government did not create them, but that these problems were inherited. I would remind the respected representatives of the government and representatives of the ruling majority if those problems were not created by someone else unknown to you, they were created by your former and party champions, your leaders, your campaign donors, your colleagues and your friends. Somehow, it seems fair to me that you are facing these problems and persons from your cloudy past. Unfortunately, you're not capable of it. In a world where data, information is colliding faster, freer and easier than ever, it's harder for you to cloud the truth. The affairs are lower than on the treadmill and the dynamics that Henry Ford would envy. If it wasn't harmful for Croatia, it would be fun to observe, to watch you converging in your world of lies, deceptions and PRs, beautiful news labels of false news and social networks and the Internet have already declared you the leading enemies of democracy. Last month, the world celebrated 30 years since World Wide Web. It's my impression that you in the government are every day cursing whoever came up with this hellish concept that hurts you so much and exposes you. Gentlemen of the government, your social networks have not parked Mercedes in your backyard. It is more likely that you brought them yourself into the garages, the new ganz, under the hammers from a factory in Germany where the ones you drove out of Croatia work. As we can see, Croatia needs thorough and root changes, problems are piling up like fireflies, and the government rather than dealing with them mainly makes them fit under the carpet or designs some transparent solutions, as a matter of principle, hold water until the masters leave. I must say that I was amazed by the statement of the government's representatives about the impellation. I would sum up my comment on the three points that are only understandable and which should not be explained: lack of objectivity, separation from reality and everydayity and self-deception. The situation in Croatia, gentlemen, is very serious. Croatia has lost its population more than ever since its independence. So it loses a substance that makes up a state. This problem has indeed not appeared with this government but its increased intensity has nothing to do with what this government is doing and what this government is not doing. You were surprised at the representatives of the Most because the other day we opposed the Law on the financing of election promotion. If you really want to know, it's about principle. In our country live the entire groups of people who have been disfigured, who live on the margins of our society and who suffer injustice, poverty and social exclusion. When a law is to be passed for them then it takes years and when you and your party have some direct interest then the law is passed on the same day, declared, announced and entered into force. On the other hand, I'm going to take an example of an executive law that the blocked ones have been waiting for like a cold sun and you've been writing it and making it for two years. You boast and I said that to the Deputy Prime Minister and the GDP, but the fact that GDP began to slow down during Oreshkovic's government 3.5% and now 2.6%. You've had a few new rounds of tax reform, and that was good. Statistics noted that average salaries after the last round of tax reform and thanks to it increased by 30 kuna. Otherwise, in your mandate, the state has given up so much money through tax reform that the revenues of the state budget have increased by just over 20 billion kuna, it is indeed a success. You've drawn new 20 billion kunas across the pockets of citizens and entrepreneurs, the budget is well charged but that beast never enough. Citizens can't pay as much as you can, and in that crusade war, only a burned country will be left to fill the budget. The fight against corruption that the people so naively hoped for about 10 years ago was completely abandoned. A serious and sufficient system of social protection does not exist, the health system is falling apart and timely health care becomes increasingly unreachable to citizens. The judiciary has become one closed system of privileged castes that are only allowed to advance and the last names are already repeated. The public administration instead of serving as a service of citizens and a protector of legality has become an instrument of organised and legalised state racket. Croatia is by all criteria in Europe and it does not have to be such respected colleagues. I therefore appeal on behalf of the citizens that the Government is finally starting to carry out and do a serious job, to stop dealing with yourself and your affairs and to do something for the benefit of the people and the public interest. This direction you have chosen leads nowhere but a stable bottom. And the media tricks you're using, they can't hide the truth anymore. There aren't all the fellow SPD colleagues here who signed this impelation. At the very end, I would like to ask some of the signatories, this interpretation, which is Mrs. Opačić, Mrs. Comparic Devčić, Mr. Habek, if you are still standing by your signatures on this document or if you give them up, because the new masters have come forward and you have changed your mind. Do you represent the citizens and citizens who elected you to the Parliament or have you forgotten them? Dear citizens and citizens, and it is your responsibility to watch out for whom you will give your trust, twisted tokens or those who believe that you are worth fighting for and that Croatia is worth fighting for. I'll conclude with this verdict to Eve Sanader, many are now reporting, shoeing him while he's on the floor, clapping while he's on the line, but it's interesting that one man is not commenting on him, not making any statements about this verdict, the man who was at his son's market in 2007, when his colleague Bačić was in the blue hamlet as well as the others, said, bandit, will come to you, and that's our representative Miro Bulj. So we hit those who are strongest, and we don't hit those who fall when you give them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136671	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, dear colleague Robert Jankovics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136672	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the esteemed ministers, State Secretary and State Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it may be best to start this debate and to tell the Croatian public, which is actually the point of the agenda. By listening to all this, I am not sure that we are all aware that the aim of the discussion is to adopt a 3-point conclusion, which would be limited to the implementation of the national reform programme of this government, i.e. the draft of the National Council for the adoption of the National Reform Programme. So that's the goal, that's the task, whether we accept it or not. What should not be the goal of this debate is to banalise this important topic, in a way that discusses who the minister is, where he watches games, who drives what kind of car, or worst case, abuses the death of a young man in Velika Gorica in order to achieve political goals. Therefore, this should not be the aim of this debate, and in order to enter into the discussion, on the basis of the interpretation objective, it is the implementation of the national reform programme, and the only thing we can do is answer to those at the signing of those MPs, who claim that reforms in this country are not being implemented. As far as the past is concerned, just over 2 years of choosing several of those reforms worth reminding the audience of, in economic and fiscal terms, the most important fact, which is that as a country we came out of the excessive deficit procedure, which it has limited us to, in a number of areas, and I remind you that the excessive deficit procedure against Croatia was launched in January 2014. The other very important thing that is worth reminding, which is also the outcome of a reform, is therefore the return of the investment rating, this country, which is therefore, in so far known as the so-called "increasing". The waste in 2012 and between 2012-2015 is the same credit rating of our country 2 times reduced. It's objective, so it's not subjectivity, it's exactly what those who look at us on the side say. The third is that there is a significant decrease in the public debt of this country, that in two years by 674 million kuna, i.e. 5.8 percentage points in 2015-2017, we have reduced public debt unlike many countries, which surround us, because we do not have such data. And to continue with the tax discharge of the citizens of entrepreneurs, could it have been more courageous, perhaps that, however, the fact remains that we changed 15 laws and left billions of kunas in the pockets of both entrepreneurs and citizens with tax reform. We reduced VAT to a number of items, that's the first time, that's how VAT was reduced, and then wages and pensions grew, and we can agree that it's not enough, but it's only been a little over 24 months. This could have been done. Indicator growth in the construction sector, the growth of indicators in tourism are objective indicators of reforms in this country. In addition to reducing the number of unemployed we can agree to be the result of the fact that we lack a share of citizens, it is objective to have an increase in the number of employees, and that is one indicator that is also the result of the government's work. And finally, local self-government units, so they finally got income tax in full, which is also a number of local self-government units in rural areas, so I'm coming, too, so they have budgets that were bigger, which were now larger than those a few years ago. As far as structural reforms are concerned, I'm the most prone to talk first of all about those demographic measures. So what the Deputy Prime Minister said, therefore, with new kindergartens all over the country, therefore, with an increase in the amount of money support during maternity leave, i.e., all those measures that we do, so to continue with, apart from demographics, with parafiscal discharges of entrepreneurs, which are 20, which I am not going to count this time, then by improving the public procurement system, increased minimum wages, 2 times in two years and finally providing free textbooks for all elementary school students from the next school year. What may be a reform of all reforms, which no one before us, before this government therefore dared to catch, is Agrokor, so the successful management of the crisis that we have saved us. Ante, which was a sentence we heard in this House, led to the fact that the small suppliers he threatened to break into the 100 % share of the jobs remained in Croatia. And today we hear that there is a chronic need for additional war force in Agrokor, the daughters' companies are still working. So that's what we've been able to do, and there's always a question of what it is in these two years, so other than all the numbered and the good part that I haven't listed here, in which conditions it's all done. So under the conditions of a total political crisis in 2017 where we were threatened by other extraordinary parliamentary elections in just over a year, so at a time of European instability, the migrant crisis, the Agrokora crisis, as I said, the Petrochem crisis through which we have so easily moved to today's major oil crisis. Let's not forget the biggest fires in history, the floods, all of which have been happening to us these years and a half and two, and yet we have succeeded, so this government that we support has managed to achieve the results that we have stated. And if all that isn't enough, I've prepared one, one quote from the European Commission's report that says the following. The Croatian economy is recovering from one of the longest and deepest recessions in the EU, where economic recovery has been based on solid foundations in recent years, while reducing macroeconomic imbalances unlike credit-enhancing growth prior to the outbreak of the financial crisis. So we're seen by others, I understand, of course, everyone in this country will, everyone can find a flaw, we're great at it, we can say that maybe it could be better, it can always be better. In these two years, this has been realistic, and as far as the very facts of evaluation of proposal 23 are concerned, my colleagues around this interpretation can only say in the end it's always a matter of trust. Do we believe that this was the most we could have done or could have done a lot more, so knowingly it wasn't us, so at the club, we're not going to support this interpretation. We trust this government, we support it, and we think this is the best thing that could be done in these two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136673	I thank my esteemed colleague, Jankovic. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, etc. We decided on this intervention after the debate of the first club from the ruling majority. Because we expected at least from those who at this point may not be acting as executive power to hear, at least a sentence of criticism, at least a shred of real life and what we see in the real world, but of course we haven't heard anything from it. And that's why I have to say I'm disappointed with your reaction to this interpretation. Everyone, but just anyone who faces certain criticism should first and foremost consider whether or not he is doing something wrong. And then if he's doing something wrong, he should use the criticism he's got to fix what he's doing. And now I'm going to ask all of you, first of all from the ruling majority, do you really think that politics is economical and any other government policy in the last 2.5 years if we're going to be realistic because this is still the government of continuity with that Government of Mr. Oreshkovic in the last 3.5 years whether economic policy in the Republic of Croatia was good. I don't think so. In fact, I think not only that the economic policy in the Republic of Croatia was not good but rather that the Croatian economic policy is not at all. And why is that? Because, above all, tax policy, fiscal policy with economic policy, has been replaced in this government. We've subjected everything to taxes. We have obviously concluded that only, exclusively and only tax policy will be able to change things and change the overall economic and consequently many other aspects of life in the Republic of Croatia. But respected colleagues and colleagues, that's not the case. I also think it's not a bad thing for Croatia to raise an economic, excuse me, raised credit rating. Not bad. Would it have been better if he hadn't been down either, not bad. But respected colleagues and colleagues, raising credit ratings has nothing to do with the real life of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The rise in credit ratings is exclusively due to tax and fiscal budgetary policy. Credit rating agencies are only interested in one thing, interested in cutting costs, interested in cutting budgets, interested in reducing debt. The real life of Croatian citizens and the impact of tax, economic and any other policies on them by credit agencies is not at all interested. Rating does not necessarily reflect the lives of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And what is the life of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia? I'll show you just on two basiss. Consumption according to Eurostat data for February 2019 is 11.5% higher than it was in February 2018. Of all EU Member States, only Slovenia has an increase in consumption in this period. On the other hand, the GDP of the Republic of Croatia grew at rates lower than all transition countries, including those of Slovenia other than the Czech Republic. Dear colleagues and colleagues this data shows that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia want to live better, they want to spend more, but that this foundation is not an increase in the value of the Croatian economy than it is solely credit debt, raising cash credits, pumping money into a balloon that will eventually burst due to the functioning of this government. And then we'll experience everything we've experienced in 2008, 2009 and later, we'll hear about bananas again, we'll hear about problems again, we'll have extraordinary taxes, haraches and everything else. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at least today because of the Supreme Court's decision we have Eva Sanader again, let's think about his legacy to us, and this legacy is not just crime and corruption. That legacy is much worse when we look at the damage he left on the common society in the Republic of Croatia. He left us one mentality of consumption without creation, and you took it from Eve Sanader and his government completely. This interpretation was designed as an incentive to do better It's obvious to you that it doesn't suit you either. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136675	I thank the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. Replica dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136676	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague you say bad economic policy or not. What was the economic policy of the SDP government when you raised the VAT, and this government reduced the VAT on fresh meat, food, fruit and vegetables, child supplies, what your mini reform was, to which you burdened local self-government units so that some of them almost went bankrupt, and this government has further financially strengthened local self-government units, has also raised salaries to citizens by tax reform, raised pensions not to say that all social benefits have grown. How do you feel that you contributed to Croatian society at a time when you were in power and what your economic policy was when this one was so bad, it was almost gone, and the citizens felt only benefits from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136677	Thank you, dear colleague Peja Grbin's reply, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136678	I thank the esteemed Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Jelkovac, when we discussed tax reform all day I was here in the assembly and appealed to your government to finally make that tax reform he's been carrying out to call her by her real name. And what your government spent months ago and what you voted for is unseen in the world by Ronald Reagan and his economic policy, and you know what that is. In fact, something similar is now being done by Trump in the U.S. It's the discharge of the rich, it's the discharge of the rich. You are this tax reform when you talk about the increase in wages and tax redundancies covered cca 20,000 employees in the Republic of Croatia, 20,000 employees, less than 1% of the population of this country, and only those who earn externally high wages for Croatian concepts, if that is something to be praised for. Then I'm certainly not going to be a part of it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136679	I thank the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, respected colleague Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136680	I thank the esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens who follow this painful debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues from HDZ for 3 years are these governments and almost 1 year in that short term before this, and you can't say that there was no time for certain things to be corrected and changed if they are guilty and if the government before you call them SDP's wrong. So 3.5 years is a time that can allow enough to change the bad trends and all the bad things that someone's done before. Unfortunately, there are no ideas, no creativity, unfortunately we are at the bottom of the EU by all indicators, we can get out on credit ratings like this or we are at the bottom of all indicators behind us is only possibly Bulgaria if they do not reach us too. On average, even Romania has overtaken us, where Romania was once behind Croatia, a light year. How many reforms did this government carry out? Only one, richer, even richer, poorer, and 350,000 people left the Republic of Croatia. Mostly people of the most productive working age, most of them took their families and young children away. I base my debate on what I've talked to people I hang out with, which are ordinary people who have and who don't and who share the worse part of this society and the financial situation in this country. If that's your reform, then you're really successful. At record speed, you've done this reform. Why are our young ones leaving? The Croatian Employers' Association conducted a 5-year survey, 26 countries where young people left, only 6 places of pay. Reasons, legal disorder, injustice, corruption, nepotism, Ustashas and partisans. Well, people make fun of social networks with the fact that if you only have a HDZ membership card, you can get a job, so I didn't make it up, you're full of social networks. Look at that, it's both your people and your members kids are going out, just unfortunately and they still don't see it. Is it possible that the goal is to cast out a critical mass so that you can be uninterrupted and rule for 20 years? Some other workers will come, maybe someone does, so it won't matter who the religion, the nationality, from which the country came, they won't understand what's going on here. But don't think it'll be like that, Croatia is just a passing station for them. When they get Croatian papers they know very well where Germany, Ireland and how much money is made there, how much money is made in Croatia. Today we already have a lack of labour quality. Ask our entrepreneurs, builders, mechanics, locksmiths, how do they get to the workforce that can do their job? Very difficult. She's gone. People of these profiles went to Germany or Ireland or somewhere else. According to this HUP survey, in 26 countries of the world. Here, I'm reading on the portals that Miroslav Skoro has returned the HDZ card because he can't watch what's going on. If he did it, there's probably a reason. Is the reform that, instead of the tripartite authority that should be in Croatia, means legislative, parliament, executive government and judicial authority, we unfortunately don't have any more, we lost. It's all taken over by the government. The government government and the Parliament because you do not vote by your conscience but vote as your club president tells you and you do not have your beliefs but do all that the deity that keeps you in your position tells you and you want him to like it. But remember that you also have children and that it will inherit and inherit what is happening today and how it all goes, we will only have an anthem and flag from the Croatian state. The government manages both the police and the state's attorneys and the judiciary, so we see what's been going on lately. You can see from all these affairs that are current and that are tearing this society apart. Unfortunately, judicial reform also lacks a "r". I guess it suits rolling in the mud of this mess. It's sad to read a statement from a lawyer who says recently, the government is manipulating and the police are lying. You know how angry citizens are when they hear... When does that happen? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I don't mean police officers who, for small wages, are exposed to all the influences of today's society. The reform of education, Plenkovic put himself at the head of this reform, but we have nothing because obviously he does not want modern education available to everyone because an educated man is dangerous, he can think with his own head, he can get a solid salary and when he becomes independent, then he is unhappy with this society. Unfortunately, Ceauescu was in Romania, too, but he fell in the worst way possible. What about reforming local self-government and state administration? Nothing. Why? Because a large number of units of local self-government, regional self-government serves to imprison. It serves to carry out the fear, impose some kind of force, so here I come from the county of Sisak-Moslavina, where Mayor Žinic, who comes from the poorest county in this country, who comes from one of the poorest cities in this country, Gline, where he has appointed his son as professional mayor over his friends the chief of police administrations, scares the press and sends the police. Is this what the Croatian defenders fought for, and those who expected a different state than it is today? Unfortunately, this government is full of nice stories, promises, a lot of lies, a lot of money from state money, a budget for the PR. For the commercial of something that didn't happen. So today we see on TV, on radio stations we listen to commercials from various ministries that this happened, it happened. It's all costing abnormally a lot of money. Today, we have journalists who unfortunately think very well of what they will write and what will happen to them behind it. Here I am reading today, the other day one of the HDZ's powerful members of the administration of one of the state administration beat up a young man in Zagreb, broke four bones on his face and threatened him with a special police force. How long can that blasphemy go? It'll all come back to you. A series of affairs during this government. Destroyed Agrokor, a group of Borg. Lex Agrokor, who was brought in just for one occasion and all that was happening around it, all the citizens saw it. The sad thing is that 330,000 ha of the most quality agricultural land, the most orderly we gave to foreigners instead of keeping it to ourselves, that we could produce food and be independent of food production, we gave it to foreigners, we gave it to them and we now force the commissioners to sign contract annexes to keep the rent 300 kn per hectare and the oil farmers pay it even up to 1800 kn per hectare. Petrochemy, a strategic company that produces artificial fertilisers that are needed in intensive agricultural production, is privatized. What about Petrokemia? There, over 500 requests by severance workers to leave Petrokemia were announced at this time. Who's going to work at that company? So many people are impossible to make up for. Oil, that's what's already been said and will be long spoken of. The Sisak refinery, 100 years old in Sisak, beside huge tanks and a tank of crude oil on the pipelines and towards Hungary and Serbia and Bosnia. We shut it down, we don't need it. When we don't have to buy gas, if there's no god in any war threat, then we'll be wondering what we've done. An affair of planes, a business with a suspicious company whose people have been imprisoned for various suspicious activities in Israel. Bahatost, Minister Žalac Mercedes, but it is not the only Mercedes, here is the other day a Mercedes emerged in Velika Gorica by Mr Barisic, who knows how many Mercedes or some other vehicle brands. The black licking that happens here is clear that the rent and the car companies can write down 40% of the value of the vehicle in the first year, let everyone stay at mass what can be done and how a cheap car can be reached. The breakdown of the health system, go to hospitals as a mammal, but not as a minister or a senior official and see how there, the conditions have as first doctors, and then what conditions these patients live in. Go to an old boarding house in Sisak, so if your heart shakes a little when you see an ambience, believe that you will die of sadness. Agriculture is on the lowest branches, at the lowest levels of production, I don't blame today's minister for it, it's something that's been going on for many years, but once we cut it off and say we need that agriculture to move forward, let's go to those family economies that are the foundation of Croatian agriculture, so there's room for both small and medium and large systems. The celebration of Slavonia, Slavonia, Lika, the people went away there was no one, the houses collapsed on their own, so the house that was worth you in the '90s. 100 of something today is worth 20 or 30. So ask yourself, who helped make this happen, that so much of our citizens, that so much of our citizens lose the value of their assets where they've spent their whole lives. The HSS has proposed the Taxation Act of illegally acquired property in view of what it is like to have court proceedings lasted for 10, 15, 20 years we wanted to give authority to the tax administration to determine the difference between what is earned and what is owned, so if there is a difference significant that this is taxed, with one tax administration solution. So there is a solution, the government of the Republic of Croatia led by Plenkovic refused. Why? I don't need to explain, you understand. Here is today the verdict of Eve Sanader to the man who seemed to be able to spin the whole world around his little finger, about whom many danced today, but they gave it up and no one wanted to talk about him anymore, and it's obviously the safest thing for him to be somewhere behind the lock, behind the thick walls. He probably deserved it, but I'm not here to judge him, there's a judiciary, so maybe this is the only verdict that unfortunately overshadows this debate today, but it says that the verdicts can be passed if they're wanted and can be speeded up by the work of the court if they want to. Today there's been a lot of talk here about averages, average wages have grown, the average salary is 6,000 and something, the average pension of 2,400 and something, you know what the average is one thing that doesn't say anything. Which is average, one eats meat, the other rice on average is sarma. There are many more low-income people, and there are quite a number of those who have enormously high incomes and then normally the averages look that way. But we are aware today here in Zagreb the most digging in containers, how many people are digging through containers looking for something to exist, but even worse than that there are parts of Croatia where there are no containers, or if there are no things in it to find. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136681	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. We move on to the next debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club esteemed colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136682	I thank Mr Vice-President, respected ministers, respected state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues, at first I would like to thank the SDP's promoters or the SDP's club, more precisely, for their 23 MPs who have worked hard and collected 30 signatures to discuss this week's proposal for interpretations, as they say the government's failure to implement structural reforms. If you gentlemen of the SDP had conducted a poll among the HDZ deputies, which would be the best point for us, which you have the right to suggest is that we discuss this week, I believe that all HDZ representatives would have just chosen this point. For what? Because the response to this interpretation is much better than we from the ruling majority, in particular from the ranks of HDZ deputies and from the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Ministers present, as you will likely accuse us now of subjectivity, the evaluation of your interpretation was best given by the European Commission and the Standard & Poors Agency, which in its report and in its decision, wrote that the Croatian Government has insisted and is successful in implementing structural reforms. So obviously he scheduled a PR in the SDP ranks apparently Alex Brown no longer resides in the SDP because to live safely this item of the agenda would not suggest that we discuss it at the plenary session of the assembly. However, as you have put it, Vice-President Tolusic has already stated on behalf of the government, and I will tell you on behalf of the HDZ representative. First of all, this debate takes place only a month after the European Commission found in its report that Croatia has exited the process of excessive macroeconomic balances. Why am I saying that? Because in this response and in addition to these European Commissions, it is practically summed up all those answers that deny this interpretation of you. According to the February 2019 report, Croatia has made some progress over 50% of the recommendations addressed to it by the European Commission compared to last year. For most of them for one assessment more, while in individual parts of the recommendation a two-rated improvement was established. This has made significant progress in strengthening the budgetary frameworks and reforming the pension system. Furthermore, the European Commission says progress has been made in implementing system reform, education and training. Moreover, progress has been made in the field of public administration, a system of state agencies has been rationalised and regulations have been established which provide for the transfer of competences from the district units of the central authorities to the county authorities. In particular, they point out that the fiscal capacity of units of local and regional self-government is strengthened by the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Furthermore, they particularly welcome the new law on state property management because the state property management system has been improved. In particular, the European Commission points out that the number of pending judicial cases in the judicial system has been reduced and that progress has been made in the introduction of electronic communication in all courts. Furthermore, the European Commission welcomes the progress made in administrative redundancies of the economy. In particular, it points out the reduced excessive deficit of the general state, which I will discuss a little later, and now I will not stay here, and then welcomes the work of employment and the reduction of unemployment, which it claims is the lowest rate ever since the unemployment record has been kept in Croatia. I particularly welcome the measures for the categorisation of social benefits at local level. The National Hospital Development Plan has been adopted, and for the start of functional integration of hospitals, which is particularly welcomed by the European Commission and, above all, ends the absorption of funds, eu funds, saying that, not by them, but by now I will add that at the moment when HDZ and this ruling size took responsibility for state leadership, there were only 7% of the agreed funds and that today over 65% of the agreed funds, so this is what the European Commission said. What he says about the work of the Croatian Government Standard&Poor's agency, I would visit the same agency that on two occasions during the government of Zoran Milovanovic lowered the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia under investment, I do not like to say which credit rating was placed on us because we were all witnessing such a rating. But the fact that this same agency has since these governments stepped up and raised ratings on two occasions, credit ratings from the Republic of Croatia returning it to investment rating levels, which is what Standard & Poor's is talking about, is the answer of the gentlemen to your interpretation. He says he commends the Croatian government for continuing positive fiscal indicators, reducing and public debt, increasing exports and keeping watch now, continuing structural reforms contributed to the full stabilisation of public finances in Croatia. In particular, the agency points out in its statement two reforms in tax and pension reform, and I will now return a little to one and the other reform. So just before, a fellow Grumoja in his performance, he said in a Vehemental performance that he found it strange that we boast that we have reduced the discharge, that we have reduced and taxed Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs and on the other hand we have increased the budget. Well, that is precisely the achievement of this tax reform, because by reducing the level of tax burdens or taxation, we expanded the base and thus increased other measures by capacity, fiscal capacity both for entrepreneurs and Croatian citizens, which then resulted indirectly in an increase in tax revenues in the state budget. So with this tax reform, we have released Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs through three phases for 7 billion kuna, what then had its answer in raising the activities of many entrepreneurs, etc., etc. The second thing, what I would especially point out is pension reform. So there is Minister Pavić, me and him now congratulating him on the adoption and proposal of this pension reform, which when it is implemented and has already begun its implementation, will result in what is most important for our pensioners and this is an increase in pensions on the one hand. On the other hand, we refuse to insinuate that all Croatian citizens will now have to work until they are 67 years old and that is incorrect, only those who have not completed full-time work by 65 years and these are fewer and we want Croatian citizens to remain in the system of work so that their pension is greater. But what is particularly bizarre in Croatian politics is that those who took part proposed, only one small segment, although unsettled in the pension reform in 2014 when they themselves prescribed and introduced an annual censorship of 67 years for retirement is now looking at miracles being placed and taken... the organisation of a referendum in the Republic of Croatia in order to annul the achievement of this pension reform. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is absolutely strange that the same ones who have proposed to retire from 67 years of employment are now being put to the head of the organisation of a referendum of Croatian citizens in order to change tax, pension reforms and thus reduce pensions on the one hand in the future and again burdened the state budget by 12 billion kuna by 2040. So I would remind the promoters of this interpretation that during their government, their government tried an outsourcing project where they intended to place certain jobs that were not the primary business of state administration on the market to individual entrepreneurs. A referendum has also been organised against such a decision by the government and 640,000 signatures of Croatian citizens who opposed the outsourced country have been collected. Why am I saying this? Because the Constitutional Court then found, following that decision, that such a referendum for whom you are watching would have been collected, 640,000 signatures were unconstitutional because, when it came to economic policy, which was a segment of the outsourcing at that time because the government decided to take certain economic measures to contribute to the discharge of the Republic of Croatia's budget, the Constitutional Court said that it was an economic policy that was exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Government and the Parliament and could not decide on economic policy at the referendum, because if that were the case, I believe that if someone in Croatia had suggested that VAT be reduced to 10% or that income tax was abolished, that a million signatures would be collected very quickly, because everyone would clearly want to reduce VAT, reduce taxes and increase their income. Thus, the Constitutional Court then said that such a referendum would be counter-constitutional, so if it is outsourcing, the decision on sourcing is based and interpreted by an economic measure, is there then a reform in Croatia that can be interpreted by an economic measure if it is not a pension reform? If this is not a pension reform that is needed to pay off pensions in Croatia in the budget of 18 billion kuna per year, if by 2040 this reform would reduce 12 billion kunas of burden on the Croatian budget and not have to be additionally debted, then could it ask whether such a referendum is anti-constitutional and watchful, why did I mention it, only for the reasons why the proposings of this interpretation of the grudge they themselves proposed and for which we should be aware that it could be one or if they are aware that one of the economic measures of this government, they say, take over the banner of the organisation of the referendum itself and invite their members to actively engage in the assistance of the trade unions to collect enough signatures to carry out a referendum. So much hypocrisy from one party, I must say I have not yet seen it, and then I am not surprised that such pamphlets are modest in the raiding of the interpretation here in the Croatian Parliament today and we are discussing them. When I spoke about where Croatia is today, thanks to this government, I do not repeat that since these governments are GDP growth at a level of between 2.7% and 3.2%, that by 10% of GDP, the public debt of Croatia has been reduced by 84% by the time we took responsibility for leading Croatia up to 74% this year, that the number of employees, beware that when we took responsibility for Croatia's leadership, the number of employees in Croatia was one million and 300 000, today it is one million and 403,000, that it is historicly low number of unemployed in the Republic, that a number of measures have been taken, there have already been talks. I have told this speaker many times that Agrokor is an impeccable intervention of the Croatian government that has preserved the Croatian economy and has helped the government to continue to stabilise Croatia's financial system with other fiscal policy measures, and then it is the basis for a number of further measures in Croatia that are currently being implemented. So it is clear to all these measures that this government of the Republic of Croatia is very successful in implementing reforms, and then we return to the beginning when I say, so after the government has implemented a series of reforms, I dropped the reform of the road system, we are now forgetting when they were in power, that the SDP has launched monetization or privatisation, whatever you want to call, highways in Croatia and that then there was also a referendum in response to citizens not to be monetized or privatised in the Croatian highways, this government in one quiet, normal, peacefully done restructuring of the road sector, no one else in Croatia is thinking about the monetaryisation of Croatian roads and at the same time we reduced the burden on the annual level of both Croatian highways and the highways Rijeka-Zagreb by about 50 million euros per year, which is somewhere around 200 kindergartens that can be built. So in all that this government has touched, successful in implementing structural reforms, and from it it is clear that the HDZ Club will refuse this interpretation because we estimate that it is unwarranted, that it is unfounded, that no representatives of the club, SDP representatives have justified such an interpretation and that is why we will say, at the HDZ Representatives' Club, we reject this interpretation because we believe that the Government is extremely successful in the realisation and implementation of structural reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136683	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, this is a real opportunity to react, of course, after Branko, Branko, to say a few words. First of all, if you have read the interpretation well and her proposal and conclusions, then you have seen there that we, not that we have given you this opportunity to talk about the successes of the government, but we are giving you the opportunity to every two months. You're talking about the government's results. And we long very much for these results, but unfortunately they're not there. So there's the problem. So we're looking for an impelation that every two months. The government presents to us in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public what you have done in terms of implementation of the reforms. And you refuse. Why? I ask why you refuse? Well, that's another second, third, fifth chance in your term to tell people what you've done. Secondly, I would particularly like to point out that this report on the European Commission that you are talking about and where, of course, you have cut down some of the positive things, but behind that there is always but, and that other one is actually saying what it is not done. And in that same report, it said that only 7% of the reforms announced by the government were fully realised and up to 50% still with some limited progress. So, what the government announced, 50, half of it wasn't done at all, and what it didn't announce and what it left behind, of course, wasn't done, and that's about 100%, 200 percent, 300 percent in the future, right? Now you see, in this report, the European Commission writes, saying, lasting growth is the biggest challenge of the Croatian government and they say, that, in the fiscal sphere, certain shifts have been made, that, thanks to economic growth, that, thanks to the growth of revenue in the budget, but you are raising and expenditure, so you are not doing anything to stabilise that budget in the long term and to leave a reserve for some new crises, do you understand? So, the macroeconomy comes from this aspect that in these times of growth, in better times, it is saved for black days and black periods. Now that is what we warn that you do not do, do not implement reforms, do not implement savings and do not create conditions for long-term stability, and this commission simply warns you very directly. As for Standard & Poors, the agency that raised the credit rating, I'm saying here, it's good, it's good that the rating goes up. However, they say again, thanks to fiscal effects and a reduction in budget deficits. Just a moment, so they might mention a pension reform, and now I've left it to end, so let me tell you that pension reform is the only thing that's in it for reform, and what you've spent in this time. However, the pension reform in the public has not been accepted, it is the biggest problem, which citizens do not accept as their own, they do not feel as their own. Why? For two reasons. First, this reform does not resolve the status of future pensioners, does not improve their position, only partially affect the sustainability of the pension system, and the worst part is really the extension of the working age to 67. 'Cause people don't know how they're gonna make it till 67. For some, yes, that's why we said, let's leave people to work until 67, let's be doctors, let's be my fellow professors, let's be those who are in good physical storage, good relative health, etc., etc., but let's not force people from malls, construction firms, people with baustel etc. to work until 67. Because that's not possible. If they go early due to illness and some physical damage, they may get some disability pension, but they won't have a decent pension for those who normally end their working life, but they will be reduced by 20%, by 1/5, so of course they're all up against it, including the Syndicates. But more about it, of course, I'll say it on behalf of the club later.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136685	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek. We have replicas, dear colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Greek fellow, I know that you did not participate in writing this interpretation because it would not, I suppose, be such a modest and modest reach, as if you had become a little more involved, you would probably still be giving some information that, then, we would have to engage a little bit more then to explain that even then you would be wrong. But what I wanted to say is, there's no need for us to accept the conclusion that every two months we should come to what we're doing because we've been in the past four months, three times we've come to reform here. So we're at your disposal every month because from month to month this government comes with new reforms. Em was taxed, it seems to me in November, so she was retired at the 12th month, so she was judicial in the 2nd month, I mean, I don't know what you're up to, I guess we should come here every two days with some new reform. Therefore, from what this government is doing, there is plenty of time for you. So you can talk about reform. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136687	Thank you. The answer of a fellow Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136688	So thanks for letting me say one more thing now. So we propose that all relevant partners in society participate in this kind of monitoring of the implementation of reforms. So, not only the opposition, not just HS, not just you, as you are at the moment, those who exercise authority, but also representatives of the Syndicate, and representatives of employers and all relevant people who can contribute to the process being under constant pressure, that reforms are really happening. I'll explain later from the macroeconomic aspect of why it's important. Why is a short deadline and tax reform important, why are these structural reforms needed that stabilise the situation in the medium and long term and strengthen the strength and stability of the economy, then, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136689	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136690	Thank you very much. Comrade Greek, you said in your address the result is gone, so we give you the opportunity to deliver these results every two months, it's a little illogical, but the fact is that you were unrelated in your speech because I remember a time when the SDP was much stronger than today. You were then the greatest optimist in those times when your government was declared the sixth worst in the world. And all the time you've been telling us about the strangely impossible situation, after 11th quarter with a GDP drop, you come on the show and you say, and even a decline can be growth. Today you're saying that growth can be a fall, and you're constantly in some illogical situation, and you're trying to convince us that what you've been doing is actually politics and reform, so no one believes you, so the people have replaced you, seven times in a row you've lost to that HDZ that doesn't know anything, so I guess you'll wake up after these next elections. It'll be eight times. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136691	...college Boric. My fellow Greeks, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136692	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so you've won the price election and that's OK. However, as far as my optimism is concerned, that I've been deeply concerned, I, I feel sorry for a fellow Deputy Prime Minister who now has not enough time in my place to commit himself to the macroeconomic part of the government. My colleague Dalic was much more involved and paid much more attention to all the problems she had with Agrokor and other individual projects. So, I call on the Deputy Prime Minister to devote yourself to the macro-economics of the Croatian state at this time and for the future because there is much to be done. So, if I were to look at it your way, then I would have commented on the fact that two days ago, it came out that the Croats are the only ones in Europe whose happiness has fallen in the last year, so the feeling of happiness and pleasure has fallen. So I'm asking you why? Well, I guess it's relevant that citizens, not what we're talking about here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136693	I thank my fellow Greek. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136694	This is true, if we have listened to a colleague of Grmo and your colleague and our Pejo Grbin, then it is really a depression because she has deeply dragged herself into this assembly and into the country, but from the reports of the European Commission you forgot to mention that there is a reduction of macroeconomic imbalances, therefore in Croatia, mainly thanks to the positive economic environment and sound public finances management. So, then your theory that it's unreasonable and that you don't manage how you shouldn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136695	Thank you. The answer of my fellow Greeks, I'd like to ask you nicely when I give you my word then speak. [[I'm entitled to an answer, right?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136696	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. So, I did not say that at all, twice I said that when it comes to the Standard & Poors report and when it comes to the European Commission that the only commendable element that has contributed to raising Croatia's rating is the state of public finances. So once again, I'm very consistent with what I'm saying, and I've been trying my whole life to be today. And a colleague of this Boric, regardless of your cynical laughter, I will repeat once again, every time I was an optimist I believed that already, I mentioned, in half of 2014, we would extract Croatia from the 6th annual crisis and minus, 15% of Croatia sank cumulatively, we pulled it out in half in 2014, in 2015 we had already had a serious growth, on whose wings you achieved this fiscal consolidation that you did, but you did nothing else. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136697	Thank you. Next Replies Respected I would kindly ask you not to disturb other conversants with the bogeymen from the bench. [[Intruder: That's right, if it wasn't for us, we wouldn't be.]] The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Sunny Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136698	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, fellow Greeks, a little reminder as I recall you were in the government in 2014. Is that correct? Bravo, so I'll remind you that in 2014 you passed the Law on which you retired at 67 years of age and I'm glad you remember that. Not challenging your macroeconomic knowledge and this little lesson that we had here ex-Catedra, my question is why you didn't apply your macroeconomic knowledge when you were sitting in that same government that passed this former law that you're now saying is absolutely not to be passed, and in fact he's already in effect thanks to your government. When you want to discuss reforms on the government's reform moves, then it's good to be here in the assembly, so when the laws come here for discussion we're discussing them and then you see what it's really about, not that we're doing it twice a year. I think it's very bad and that this proposal is not good at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136699	I thank my colleague Glavak. The answer of a fellow Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136700	So I don't have any, I don't have the tendency to repeat myself. So pension reform is assessed by citizens and this union initiative is very clear, the citizens will plead, we will see if they will sign the initiative. Therefore, my humble opinion will ultimately not decide what will happen to the pension reform. Unfortunately, it was initially perceived as bad, as harmful to future pensioners, and what I warned in my previous address is that the biggest problem of the existing pensioners that the reform does not touch at all. The problem is the existing pensions, which are on average 2,400, and you know what the average is, so a bunch of our pensioners, citizens somewhere around 800,000 receive a pension below the social minimum, below the poverty threshold and enter the category 1,200,000 people in Croatia below the poverty threshold.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136701	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, you give up. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Are you giving up? Are you giving up or are you going to have a replica of a colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136702	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, no, I would not give up on the replica, actually something said by my colleague Sunčana Glavak, but you tell your colleague, Greece, it would be of interest for you to accept the conclusions of this interpretation so that every two months you can discuss the positive results of your government. And then, of course, you say things, that in the revenue side of the budget, what you're doing everyone needs to be welcomed, but you're increasing the expenditure side of the budget and you know yourself that what you've been doing with the pension reform is wrong and you've mentioned these 67 years for people who won't be able to do it. But you, like your colleagues, have actually voted for that part of the pension reform, which is said that pensioners can also work four hours. So, on the one hand, it's a little contradictory, but you voted for that kind of thing. However, the European Commission report says significant progress has been made in which the Assembly has adopted an important package of pension system measures aimed at removing structural inconsistency and improving.../incomprehensible/... pension system And that's enough for you as a scientist. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Babic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136703	Thank you. My fellow Greeks, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136704	So, thank you, Mr. Vice President, so I repeat to this occasion myself, and also to the SDP as much as I have had the opportunity to discuss within the party, and this time we confirm that we welcome the possibility that has been adopted, which is that pensioners can do 4 hours, do their jobs while receiving pensions. Therefore, we consider it a good part, but once again I warn you, 67 years old. We can't accept retirement and 20% of the pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136705	I thank my fellow Greek for his reply. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Dr. Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136706	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, this debate reminds me a little of that story, "The owl is mocking the shadow that has a big head." Members of the former incompetent government accuse the current members of the incompetent government of being incompetent, it's one game in HS that's obviously been going on for a long time, but well, that's none of my business, so we're going to discuss this government now, and yet this interpretation is in one, so, the failure of the government. And indeed, we can argue that we have before us a government of parrots who have been repeating one thing all the time and the same since they came to their positions, and we can sum it up in three words, these are reforms, growth, Brussels. However, of all these there are no concrete results, perhaps only for the government to write the book “Brisel Is Our Hope” although it is generally known from ancient times that if you do not put bread in your hands, no one else will give it to you. And as for the assessment of this government, we do not need to invent any particular opinion, it is enough to look at independent indicators that are quite clear, uninvited and ruthless. For example. Did the Republic of Croatia grow on the competitiveness scale during the government of Andrej Plenkovic? No, she fell. We're at Georgia level now. We fell down the corruption index. The growth we have is very modest and smaller than any country in the environment, and we are already last on the list, I'm talking about GDP growth. Under the criteria of macroeconomic stability, the Republic of Croatia is 106th in the world. According to the 96th labour market, by the efficiency of the 139th legal system, under the government regulations of 138th, by the employment policy of 135th and absolutely the worst of innovation capacity and business dynamics. So while one of Spain has, watch out now, the Ministry of Innovation, the Republic of Croatia doesn't even know what innovation is, with us innovations don't exist, we're just the world's bottom. At ease of business we are even behind Montenegro, the worst in Europe by gender equality, by the speed of the internet, by the coverage of the country's kindergartens, as many as 2/3 of Croatian children do not attend kindergartens or attend only occasionally. We have the least employees in all of Europe by research and development. The university is a disaster, assigning PhDs to unspeakable characters like Covic and Bandic, while at the same time those people who really know something degrades in every way possible. If we want to assess the work of this government enough to take their own programs that are written and publicly available even on the Internet, we have a credible programme, 180 000 jobs will be opened, at this point as I speak, the number of jobs is the same as in 2013, at the time of the biggest crisis, 1,380 000 no new job is opened. It's been said that VAT will be 23% in the last year of office, I see it's still 25%. It has been said that there will be a ban on actions, and Mr. Badjun, a Croatian defender with three children, has been kicked out of his apartment because of the 11000,00 kn card debt. It was chattering about how the executive law would change, and we can see that it will not change, nor has it changed, and especially not in a way that protects citizens. It says in the program that young people will receive $350,000 in loans, where are these loans, which young people have received these loans? Now comes the EU elections Get the HDZ programme for the EU elections in 2014. Now I'm going to read you what it says in that program if you forget here's a little reminder, we're going to have the same interest on loans as EU members. Do we have the same interest? We don't. Next, we'll find the missing. Why did we have the Missing People's Law today if we already found it, that's what we promised. They're going to solve the issue of youth unemployment, I guess with those $350,000.00 loans. How's unemployment solved? By driving people abroad. We'll create a competitive economy. And according to all the indicators we're going down, here's what I just read earlier. We'll have better medical services. And the government has listed 5 billion kunas for health care to extend the waiting lists and that what it's called, it could not provide services to anyone but those who have money. We'll build retirement homes. Tell me, Minister Pavić, where are your retirement homes, here I would really like to know how you realized that promise? We will strengthen organic agriculture, and Minister Tolusic extends the use of glyphosate until 2023, he does not want to mark GMO products although his law has been since 2005. Come on, gentlemen of the HDZ, get yourself the Law of Law Implementation, that would be the best, best move in this House of Commons. Now we're going to work railways, we're going to have a highway to Dubrovnik, I'm reading your program, we're going to have underwater tunnels to the island, please tell me if there's any island in Croatia underwater tunnel, we have a thousand islands. We're going to get healthy banks that encourage entrepreneurship, we're going to do demographic reconstruction, what demographic restoration? Last year, at least Croatian children were born in the past 150 years. Will you gentlemen from the government, gentlemen of the HDZ, now prescribe this programme for this election that will take place in 2019? Feel free to rewrite it further, these promises await execution. Here I'll give you another proposal, let's say, for your program of Mr. Pinocchio and Baron Munchhausen, let's say we demined Croatia, here, Mozambique demining it with 200 million euros in a few years even though they were 27 years of civil war, and you're not able to deminate with all your European funds, funds, billions, I don't know how many of these companies we have to deminise and so on. Croatia is essentially a country that has the potential to be one of the most successful countries, not only in the region but also in Europe as a whole. We have an air conditioning that has a few soils, where you can plant whatever comes to mind, and southern fruit, and continental fruit, and grains, and I don't know what, everything here will work. We have a fertile country, 3/4 of Croatia represents a fertile country, we have water most per capita throughout Europe, that we have a Japanese or Finnish government here, so that they do not even know Croatian, I guarantee you that in 5 years Croatia will be at the very top of the European Union. And we have therefore a government that speaks Croatian, which, for example, has, which knows that we have the most water in Europe but at the same time we have the highest water prices in Europe. What can I say now is that in Ireland water is free, free of charge, and they have less water than we do, that the Germans pay cheaper water than the Zagrebers. If Croatia were by chance a Sahara country, I'm almost sure this government would import sand, that's our government's policy. We have direct prices, catastrophically high, and especially in terms of wages that are poor, here you have this program on the Internet called Numbeo if you're interested, where the prices of all the capitals are combined next to each other, in Zagreb directed by 85 squares apartment costing 1300 kuna, in Madrid and Athens 1000 kuna, in Seoul, South Korea 1,100 kuna, in Milan 900 kuna, in Los Angeles 950 kuna per month with salaries of 28 thousand kuna. Are these your successes, have you in any way improved the standard of citizens? No, you, instead of worrying that we have the highest director's prices, you're still increasing prices, not just you, and the gentlemen of the SDP calling you, it's enough to look at the case of Rijeka. You increase heating prices, people can't heat themselves, they freeze in the middle of winter. You're increasing electricity prices, waste better not to mention, 10% of the population has no electricity at all, no plumbing, no asphalt, no public lighting, better, better generally, not in general. People in Croatia live without electricity and without water. In Croatia we have 10 and more thousand homeless people, homeless people, people sleeping on park benches, you can't solve this problem, you're so incompetent that you can't solve the problem of 10,000 homeless people. Al will take care of you 10 thousand migrants and 100 grand if you have to, then that, even the dogs will take you off the street, but your citizens don't, because you simply don't have any strategy, you don't have a general brain to think about what's important in the Republic of Croatia and this, how to implement the Constitution that you wrote yourself. Salaries in Croatia, disaster, below any limit of endurance, escapes anyone who can. More than 300 thousand Croats live in Germany today, Munchen lives in Munchen than in Osijek. Is that the success of this government? They say by 2026 500 thousand more active people will be gone, what do you do to stop it? Do you know that Austria opens its borders for Croatian workers in 2020, you know how many more people will leave? At least 150 thousand, all the Countys that are near Austria, Međimurje, Karlovac, Istria, Rijeka will go to work in Austria. According to all the analyses carried out by top economic experts, top economists in Croatia, with this policy, Croatia will enter a state of permanent recession, a permanent recession in which it will absolutely no longer be possible to raise any wages, no pensions without the mercy of world bankers, then it will be able to protest as much as you want, will be able to set you on fire by half of Zagreb but there will be no more possibility of this being resolved because there will be no people, the whole of Croatia will turn you into Lico, in a country where there will only be public officials with the HDZ party card without any perspective. Croatia will become under your leadership like Latvia, which has lost half the population, and we may become like Congo, a colony in Africa that has fallen from 18 million to 3 million people, and it has happened in history, these are your bankers, these great masters, the British, the Germans, the Americans, I don't know who brought democracy to those countries, so we see how it ended. Do you really want the HDZ gentlemen to remember you as a party that has devastated Croatia worse than the Turkish wars? Do you ever, at least when you're alone in four walls, think about the consequences of what you're doing, have you ever wondered if I work for the Croatian people harm or benefit? I wonder every day when I enter this assembly, what do I do today for harm or benefit? Is that what you guys ask yourself? Ask yourself honestly, let these party bosses go and I don't know which bankers you're threatening and who you're afraid of, ask yourself? A man must face his conscience at times. These people who moved out essentially and didn't move so much because of their salaries, they would, in Croatia, work for half the pay they might work for a third of that salary, but if they could expect you to help, if they knew they could solve the housing issue without asking, if they knew there were effective demographic measures that would help them in parenting, if the judiciary and public administration function, if man could advance thanks to his work and not to family and political ties, if he could depend on himself and if he knew that he could gain a good social reputation and a good standard thanks to his education, his diligence and his honesty, and that, I repeat, at that state, he was an ally, and not an enemy. Lucky for you, I've just run out of time, but then I'll say something more in person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136707	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague of Christmas Macar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, so here we are, in his address the Deputy Prime Minister presented a detailed report on all the activities and results of this government. He's listed for a long time, and I think we've all heard most of it, and we've memorized it. However, there is something I can agree with and the opposition, which is that it can always be more. You can and you must. But the opposition can't claim that everything that's been done so far has been done badly and at the same time that almost nothing has been done, and we've heard how many things have been done. I am particularly bothered by the claim that nothing has been done in the Ministry of Science and Education, but in my replica, I have pointed out how much it has been done, which is that in the past 20 years there has not been so much activity in the Ministry of Science and Education as in the past year and a few days. Just as Minister of Science and Education Blaženka Divjak has finally introduced education reform into classrooms, he has brought the School of Life programme back to 74 schools since 2018, and since this autumn, educational reform has entered all Croatian schools. It was our tendency to talk about it all the time, and now we're saying nothing happened. The biggest teacher education is under way in Croatian history, over 32,000 teachers and teachers are educated, and educational reform is praised by the European Commission, which called it one of the most ambitious reforms. More than 200 million kunas from the EU funds and the state budget and through the support of the European Commission for the implementation of educational reform have been provided. Last year, 25 regional competence centres were appointed throughout Croatia to contribute to higher quality of vocational education, but also to economic growth and demographic recovery, and we have just heard today that nothing is done on this plan, that students are not educated in the labour market and that they care and do nothing. A billion kuna is provided for vocational schools from EU funds, and the centres themselves mean new equipment, new accommodation facilities for students, teachers, and then introduce students into the world of work. More than 373 million kunas are provided with scientific centres of excellence and a billion kunas from the EU funds for scientific equipment and infrastructure. Croatia also entered CERN on February 28th, as we all welcomed it and opened up an opportunity for competitions worth as much as EUR 500 million. And we're now saying that nothing was done on that plan. I've just deliberately taxed all of this so we can have it in one place and hear how much it's done in that ministry, and we say it's not done and it's not done. It was this government that launched all these reforms headed by Minister Divjak. A lot of projects have been launched at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Design. Thus, in the mandate of Predrag Štromar, the Ministry of Construction managed to contribute to its projects by reducing the eviction wave for which we are all constantly talking about how much eviction and normally everyone in their segment in their ministry except the Ministry of Demography has to take care of that too. So for more than 5,000 families through a subsidized housing programme, it is possible to buy homes in their own country with the financial assistance of the state. So, all these people stayed living in Croatia. When 8,000 POS apartments and 1,000 other POS apartments planned to be built are added to this, we come to a number of 50,000 of our citizens, which is the city of Dubrovnik's size, which is precisely thanks to the measures of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, led by Predrag Štromar, to stay in Croatia. In families that helped secure their home, 460 children were born this way. Thus, it does show us if we make sure that the results are present. Through energy restoration programmes, schools, health homes, not only raises the quality of life but also significant savings. And what the Ministry of Construction would add just as the Government today passed two bill proposals, the Law on Construction and the Law on Spatial Planning, where we all talked and were dissatisfied with the speed and way of issuing building permits. It is precisely these laws that will allow our citizens to get home faster without documentation so much, without paper, and investors to get a permit as soon as possible and can start their investments. We've heard the same nicknames today at the HNS account, but we're used to it already. I know that the HNS took care of its citizens, took care of the past government, cares and now, fights and fights to pass laws that are on their behalf. And I know it's hard to admit as good as these laws are, as concrete as they are, they're called, they're not good because just because they're behind them is HNS, but any criticism that comes to our account and the account of our ministers means we're doing our job well. There has already been a law that has really contributed greatly to the development of units of our local self-government. As I come from the north, I know that there was a thing and a situation of underdevelopment, and so we kept insisting, let's see that it's actually a balanced development and the possibility of all parts of the Republic, and so on and so on, because the differences were really huge, so here's the law that lets so much as now equal those incomes of local self-government and thus they are able to finance children in kindergartens, their infrastructure has been significantly improved, and I believe that this rate will continue and that this development in the entire region of the Republic will be balanced. We also had a few amendments where we came to the conclusion that these laws could still be better, so we had an amendment to the Water Economy Financing Act where we were able to finance the resolution of the water contribution slide. In fact, it is now resolved to resolve this problem permanently and systematically. Those who don't have these problems in their area may not mean that much to them, but in the highlands of the north it's a really big problem. We also welcome the Law on State Property, which has been passed, and I believe that the same will come in favor of our units of local self-government and our citizens. There are a number of good things that have been solved in the term of office of this government. That's how we have pension reform. There's been a lot of words that, that pensions are small, that they're 67 years old. Too much, it would have been a lot to discuss, but what I would point out and what I find very important by this government, if we had preserved the second pension column and strengthened its role, so the pension indexation formula was amended, allowing a 27% pension allowance for a one-time pension and 15% of the capitalised savings from the second pillar, which is the part that we suggested, however, that the part where the pension is left from the second pillar there is the possibility of a one-time payment, whether the future pensioner will use it to pay off the loan, whether it affords something, that's his thing, but that he still has some money and that he has this feeling that he's saving and that it's about his money. What's still good is the establishment of a pension insurance company where we give the option of choice because we know what the cost of fees were when transferring funds from the second pillar. Liberalism is the possibility of investing in compulsory pension funds with the aim of increasing savings yields. There's been a lot of talk about tax discharges. I would refer to this VAT reduction and if it hadn't been for reduced prices. Prices are really reduced, however, competition is doing its job and will certainly go further. We can't compare one item now, we were just talking about it, so it's convenient, imagine, the strawberries picked up in January compared to July, but surely the competition will still make it feel that way, but it will feel even more. We had what was significant and what would be particularly commendable in the government's decisions where a decision was made on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance to increase the non-taxable salary supplement. We all know that we had those 2.500,00 kn that could be paid off, whether as a Christmas card, a resurrection or a reward, now that part has been increased by an additional 5.00 kn, so the employer can pay his worker 7.500,00 kn untaxable. Whether it will be rewarding workers for his work, whether he will be in some form of salary allowance, he himself decides in what form but has the right to 7500 kuna untaxable. So he can decide monthly that 400 kn each month gives him an untaxable part of the prize, which is a direct increase in salary, it's on the trail of the 13th I pay, that 15 000 or a month, it's the decision of each individual. And that a lot has been done to protect human rights, so it has been done, or the Istanbul Convention has been ratified, and as HNS, we have warned loudly and as the need for ratification of a document representing the 21st century standard. The legal framework for all comprehensive protection against all forms of violence and the promotion of full equality between women and men. We also had an amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman for children where we have actually strengthened this independence of the Ombudsman for children so that it does not stand and cannot agree that nothing has been done and everything that has been done is bad. We'll be against this interpretation, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136709	Thank you. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136710	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here's another review of everything that's mentioned here today and said, here might be the first thing I'd like to think about is your exposure, colleague. In fact, if I learned anything in politics in this time when I am, it's not too short, it's not too long, and it's that what I think is my impression, it doesn't have to be the impression of citizens, or the great majority of citizens, and when you say prices fell by tax reform, it's the only thing that citizens don't see, I mean, it's not a message, citizens feel it, so either the prices are down, so they can buy more, or they're still the same, or they've even increased, so they can't buy for the same money they have. And unfortunately, all the analysis and data showed that the prices due to the VAT crash didn't fall, they didn't fall, I'm afraid, same as I said already, prices of these non-receptive drugs, so I'm going over there to the pharmacy and I'm looking, so some medications without prescriptions that I'm taking went back 10 percent up in a month. So they didn't appreciate the fact that we cut their VAT here because that's what I was for anyway. And the SDP supported it. So one is your wish, one is your desire, and the other is how people look at it and how they feel, I mean, and we have to separate it somehow, right? What we want to say further here is one example, one information that is crucial for all of us in Croatia, and especially for the holders of macroeconomic policy. If at this time, therefore, all the annual profits of all our companies in Croatia were to be distributed to salaries, so if they took everything from employers and divided into salaries, how much would the average salary in Croatia increase net? From 6200 to what? Well, somewhere around me, I think, 6800 to 7,000 kuna. And what does that tell you, I mean, very clear calculations and simple ones. You had the data the other day in the media that all the profits of all the companies in Croatia are 1/3 of the 10th firm by profit in America. The tenth in a row, not the first but tenth in a row, means all our companies, what I'm trying to say to you to cut short, I want to tell you neither employers earn enough, nor workers have enough high wages, nor are pensions, we've already said, high enough for basic existential needs, nor people from the social community can live, nor can the unemployed live at 1,000 kn service fees. So our society and our economy are in serious trouble. That problem, it's crucial now, can't be solved by any more tax corrections, games, feet up, feet down, nothing, none of it. So that's the message. The fiscal policy regarding the promotion of personal consumption and economic growth has done its part. Why could fiscal policy still work if there were reforms? So first, if the public sector were to be reduced, what I was saying earlier, if we were to take care of the expenditure side not only of the state budget, but of the budget of local and regional self-government, if there was a certain space being created, and we weren't to boast that now we're going to raise money to local self-government, so who knows where they spent it, you know. The vast majority rose again in the next cycle the number of employees. According to some data, there are 4 to 5000 more people in the public sector and in public companies 2 to 3000 more people, only in the last 2 years. To get these new people who don't know what they're gonna do? I have hundreds of examples and evidence from my microcentre where I come from, unfortunately and not only in the units of local self-government but also in some other state institutions that have no excuse. If they reduced, if under the conditions of the labour market crisis and labour shortages, an objective part of the public administration and these institutions moved towards the private sector and provided them with jobs, then they would all live better. So the economy might also be growing because it has resources, the public sector would be more rational, it wouldn't be so burdensome to the economy, it might be tax cuts again, although I say it has already given some of its effects, and I honestly don't see too much space there, but what's key, it's all short notice, and the short term here is looking at 2, 3 years maximum. When you watch the mid-term you can secure in the medium term and that the economy can establish lasting growth. This is what the European Commission tells us – you have a crisis in terms of having difficulty resolving the issue of permanent growth. In the medium term only if you provide additional resources. So, not tax reform, not fiscal policy, but foreign policy at least that's what it's called in theory, which is employment growth and investment growth. Because if you want to go the other way, please, boys, it means investment growth, I'm a professor, I don't let you talk as long as I talk. Sorry. So it means growth in capital, growth in investment and employment growth. Since we have a say in the labour market crisis, we are the problem of employees and the problem of labour force can only be solved by increasing their effectiveness or if you want efficiency. And that's where Branka can be very helpful to my colleague and her ministry, because then it's a matter of education. It means education, skills acquisition, investment in education. A little while ago, the data was presented how little is invested in lifelong education, how many we have... in a thousand people. Too little. Below average, etc., etc. So that part raises the added value in the economy. But it can't do that either because these people won't find a job here but out here if there won't be a transfer of technology and if there won't be a development of their own technology. So if the economy isn't going to get technologically high and that's then... and that's a strategy. And unfortunately, we may have a paper strategy now, but unfortunately, it's not being implemented. So the government can't be the only one responsible for that. The government is an important factor. The government is designing measures to encourage, but the government encourages the private sector to invest in research and development, to create more value added products because it then creates only room for higher wages, higher profits. Greater profits mean more investment returned to the company, etc. The circle closes and then the economy goes forward. The key assumption, therefore, that these processes are being opened, is the government's decision, the government's strategic decision to go into such a project. It's a project from the next 10, 15 years. So as soon as you go, the government behind you will have a chance to participate and contribute. But if we delay it for no reason, because we may not be competent to come up with such a programme, then we will have a problem still and then we will nail ourselves to the bottom of the European Union and God will not save us, and that is the only way for Croatia. So period 5, 10, and then even for many years only rests on the economy of the offer, increasing investment in research, development, raising the average added value created in the economy. Because this added value pays net wages, contributions are paid, health, pension and, of course, investment is financed. Profits are funded by investments, and that makes sense, and that's where we're ready. So here's the day here today when we're discussing such serious issues I say it openly, so that's where we're prepared to support the government in an effort to come up with a project like this. You go, because everyone behind you will be easier. If this does not happen that many transition countries have done something to their own strengths, and something because they have been fortunate and because of a more favourable cost ratio, I will say, rather than a business environment, because of a more favourable cost ratio and cheap labour force, they have attracted high-tech investments in car production, in the chemical industry, etc. They're where they are today, and that means right in front of us. At the beginning of the transition, we were 3 out of 12 transition countries in economic strength. Today we're 11 out of 12. That's the problem. So together we want to perceive and identify and try to solve it. So there's no evil intentions here. The fact that we're having a bit of a political coup and we're fighting it's a normal scene in this House. But if we want to work seriously, then in some projects and in some decisions and in some actions you'll have our support it's a message. When we entered the European Union, we were together. I got a call from Racan the deceased in 2004, 5th seems to me to be the year. I was very surprised. He called me and asked me, "Will you participate in the negotiating team?" Then the prime minister was Ivo Sanader, who is today bound by this ugly news. But we worked together on this big project and I ran a negotiating group. Why not? So in such things, in such projects that are of far-reaching importance for Croatia we have to work together and it is not, this is how when we look at this Parliament it looks like a flossula. But it's the only way. I think it's the only way. And now I've gone into a sphere where I've spent a lot of time and I'm better off spending on this than going now to criticise a tax reform that hasn't given effects, a pension that I've already told you everything about, or let's just say what Branko just mentioned before in Bacic's public sector. I mean, those are our delusions. My colleague Ivan Schuker, former finance minister, knows exactly what was done here. You know what's done? So 40 million kunas of road sector debt and in one significant segment where debts have reached is refinanced, refinanced at more favourable interest rates, which saved between 500 and 600 maybe a little more kuna and nothing more, the debt remains, someone needs to be paid back in some way, when a new war comes, it will be refinanced, and that's how it stands. You understand that? So we can't boast about it, it's not our reality, so there's nothing here but something that allowed the money market at this point, our entry into the EU, the reduction of interest and so on, and so on. And in the end, I will say one more thing, and here I call you to seriousness, so if we should and cooperate, we are ready and involved, the question is now and in the EU elections are whether you are for the EUR, would you like to introduce EUR, would you not, so we are fighting, some are Eurosuveners, some are sovereigns, some are Eurosceptics, and we have said nicely in the SDP, in principle we have nothing against the introduction of the EUR, we are aware of all the positive effects that the EUR can bring, but where is the problem?, where is the problem?, so what can you once again enter the euro area only if you have long-term determined, solidified stability. If your economy is sustainable, if you have implemented certain reforms that you had to implement for this stability, if you are not, you will be welcomed by the fate of Greece, Portugal, Spain in the new financial crisis, and we pray to God that it never happens, that is the point. And so it's completely wrong if the government now says we're ready for the EUR, we're not ready for people, we're not ready, that tells you the governor himself who is part of this EUR-introduction strategy, we need reforms to be implemented. So wherever you go, wherever you go from the Commission, from Standard and Poor's, tomorrow, Moody's other agency, third, from this EUR story, every single message comes from that canton, you have to carry out structural reforms to strengthen the economy, to reduce its... or vulnerability, so that this economy can be crisis-resistant if the new crisis occurs, these are messages and don't close your eyes to that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136711	I thank Professor Greek for these words of encouraging union, I hope that other colleagues and colleagues will continue in that tone after the break I set up by 8:30. SECURE Interrupted at 20.12 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.34 HOURS]] Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136713	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished Deputy Prime Minister and his associates, and here we have the interpretation today, and I am sorry that there are no more of those who have proposed, who have proposed, that we can discuss, that this army can discuss the problems of this interpretation and that it is a democratic means and that is why I will use this to say my position. The attitude not only under these lights that we have and persuading the lights of the reflectors, but what I see in the field and what I know is true. Here I will start right away from agriculture, the Deputy Prime Minister of Agriculture is also a minister of agriculture we have never more imports, we are approaching 3 billion Euros of imports, and never less exports somewhere around EUR 1.5 billion, which means that when the Government boasts tourism, increasing tourism at the same time, we are dropping exports, and increasing imports, which means that we have the largest part of our agricultural areas that are not irrigated, we can start from the south to Slavonia. And that's one of the huge problems, we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. Today we have more and more imports of milk and milk products, pork billion kunas, pork from which we produce Dalmatian prosciutto, high-end prosciutto, milk who knows what we import, what quality. Health Day is on Sunday, what kind of food we're importing, on Saturday's pardon 7th, and it's very important today, it's very important that we talk about these topics today. We became food importers. This government did not have the courage to declare an exclusive economic belt on which MOST insisted, to protect our fisherman, and to enlist Tajani and his fishing fleet, and this same Thai wants and usurps with his words as one of the EU's leaders usurped our areas that Italian Dalmatia and Istria. We can start with the judiciary, processes last 10, 15, 20 years. You had the Court Act here, so you shut down courts like that. Here I will mention only in the Cetina region of Sinj which in 1874 Emperor Francis Joseph opened, you have closed it, an area larger than Međimurje County, and more inhabitants than Ličko-Senj County that is the Cetina region. And in Dalmatia, we don't have a single court right now, and that area has about 130,000 inhabitants, but nobody talks about these problems in a way that the Minister of Tribbao would say that the costs of these people are huge. We brought here the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area of Ministers of Regional Development and the EU Funds, on mountainous mountainous areas, the law gave the framework, the envelope of 45 million kunas, boasted that they had raised 10 million kunas, and in fact by regulation they raised 45 units of local self-government to 87 units of local self-government, which means twice as much they raised local self-government units, and they gave a very small amount in cash. What does that mean? If these children had no right to a free kindergarten, we have that convention which was the Council of Europe in Barcelona in 2002, where 90% of the areas should be covered by kindergartens from 3 to 6 years old because kindergarten is not just childcare, it is an educational programme of kindergartens, it is not even up to 10% in the Republic of Croatia. Is that a demographic policy? We have a health problem, when you call for children to be born, mainly in 2/3 of the burned state that doesn't exist, demographically there is no, from the Dalmatian burning that is still somehow near Split, and there are no schools in the background, no children's crying, no representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture or cattle, nothing, nothing, empty, schools collapse, fires collapse. When we refer to this problem at the same time we do not have a pediatrician, we have no children to take to, we have no pediatrician, we have no pediatrician, I will tell you on one pediatrician, so in the entire Split-Dalmatia county in Cetina region they should have, there are 4 pediatricians, 3 in Sinj 50,000 inhabitants, 1 in Trilj. We only had 2, one of us stayed on sick leave only 1, 3,500 children waiting in line that with all the problems that children can have to look at and can't. Systemic examinations are delayed, everything delayed, one doctor. Women don't have radiologists, women in line are waiting to enroll in UZV breasts, that's reality, that's reality we're not talking about, it's from the field in the entire area of the RH 2/3. We have a hospital, health homes destroyed, we have a hospital in Knin, we have an example called Veteran General Hospital in which you all come to Knin, we have no physical therapy pool, we have made, I have asked for an amendment to be made and to invest in that hospital that is county instead of raising the only hospital in Dalmatia Zagora to the highest level, that we do not have pressure on the Split hospital, both our citizens from Herzegovina and from the Cilogous region of Dalmatia Zagora, is not accepted, but for Storm they are all down. For Sinjska Alka, everyone is in Sinj, for the days of the Vrhorska prosciutto everyone is in Vrgorec, for the days of the prosciutto, everyone is in Drniš, and most of all now in the election campaign. The law of the court is passed, in the center of the tribune being a man, not a piar. Here we do not pass laws that are at the heart of man, which is proof of the Law on mountainous mountainous areas and undeveloped areas. I'll just pass, there's no environment and energy minister, the employment at Krka National Park was a candidate for the person who was a lawyer and who was a doctor of science, has all the professional qualifications, but a person who was also strong at the same time as the HDZ card and the HNS and the advantage was the HNS card at the same time and HDZ, a colleague from the HNS you said earlier, it was a violation of the law, it's a disaster, and that's how it's received. A party card drives people out. I also have to point out, fly fast what I said, energy, we gave the Microsolar Act, but it's still pointing at wind power plants. The wind power plants where a billion-and-a-half kuna subsidy goes out of our pockets to foreigners annually, while microsolars, the Microsolars Act, lies where money for our poverty, for people who are energy-dependent, where the state needs to subsidize, heat and heat, would thus create them for microsolars with energy independents. We do not guard our waters, we have harmful projects that have tried on my Cetina, at Zrmanja, and about traffic, that I do not speak, from the Ravce-Drvenik tunnel to the Knin compounds on the highway, Drniša, Sinj, the only thing you know about stone-based elections, I promised you that for all of your promises in the governments that you had in Split and other parts, I will always set up stone foundations and thus save that those lambs remain to be sheep and rams, not to be confused and that these costs are not only for opening stone foundations and that is reality. The reality is that 2/3 of RH are forgotten and that it's a burned country. If we don't move If we are [[Intruder: Thank you...]] If we solve Turkish and Ukrainian problems, not these, the Republic of Macedonia will be extinct. [[Invader:...respected colleague Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136714	We have replicas, an esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136715	Thank you. You've touched something that bothers me very much, but I see that it doesn't bother the people of the CNS, so they say you're very good. It bothers me that this country is showing that apart from having no structural reforms, it is not able to comply with its laws. So, we proudly voted and supported as the MOST Law on Croatian defenders who once again said that if they had the same conditions, those who are victims of the Homeland War, wartime disabled, 100% wartime wartime disabled, children killed and volunteers. And she has 2019. a woman who was a volunteer of the Homeland War, who has a master's degree and doctorate in the area, means, national parks and protected areas, which has scientific works, means, on the side of what is a volunteer and receive someone who is, and she is an unemployed volunteer and receive someone who is employed and who has no such conditions or near. And that's what's terrible about this country, what's destroying this country, that's what I was talking about yesterday, because if what's the foundation of the Republic of Croatia, the Homeland War, so let's throw it under our feet and say it doesn't matter, then we've made ourselves the greatest shame and don't curse ourselves into these defenders, the defenders were also members of all other parties, but most of them were called HDZ and that's what's terrible. [[I thank my colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136716	Thank you. Replication response, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136717	Yes, the law on Croatian defenders which we have accepted and who we have said must be respected all together, the defender regardless of which political option he was in if he has the same professional qualifications must be accepted because such is the law. And here's the missus. who has not received better and professional qualifications regardless of what the defender is, but it is obvious that, in our game of cherry, there is an acucia 3, three, three dunes in us in Dalmatia, she has accumulated two parties at the same time both HDZ and HNS, so it is much more important that the acucia, than the expertise of that person and two years that she spent on the front line defending the homeland. And that's the worst message, which is more important to be in HDZ and HNS than to be a defender and more professional than another candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136718	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. You see with the principal, maybe she's a multiparty girl who realizes she has to be in multiple parties. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136719	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bulls, you said what they didn't do, but they had some things they did, which are that they shut down the referendum, so they were very successful, then they closed down the archives of the Ubos, they managed to do it, then they managed to vote more money for the election campaign, so don't be so critical of them, there are things they did.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136720	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136721	Thank you, dear colleague of Sladolev, but for that little remark from the chairman. Yes, she will, if the SDP comes, the SDP's card is no problem for them, and they will solve it and these status as defenders and expertise will not matter and it haunts our people. Yes, a referendum. I'm sorry Lovro Kushevic isn't here. The graver of the referendum. Four hundred thousand Croatian citizens have collected signatures to change the electoral law. We Parliamentarians have not received a list of invalid signatures, and that is to spit and trample our citizens and direct democracy. It's a blow to the Constitution. It is not the problem of who is in power, but the government comes from the people and the people has the right to direct democracy that is Article 1 of the basic provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The only thing that's... That's what they're doing thoroughly, that was this attitude... [[You don't understand.]] for political parties that they can do as thorough a campaign as possible. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136722	Thank you. And that I can... What's left... [[You don't understand.]] A fellow Bull. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj you have touched in his presentation one topic which I try to often speak here in the Croatian Parliament. Indeed, Croatia is at the beginning of the European Union by the number of kindergarten children and there is an extremely large difference between the urban and rural areas of Croatia. The kindergartens are not a place of preservation, they're an educational institution. And therefore, children of rural areas do not have equal rights in Croatia as children of urban areas. We all know that the founders are cities and I'm glad that over a billion kunas are called competitions for the construction of kindergartens. But the question arises who will finance aunts in the kindergartens of many cities and municipalities? We know certain municipalities and cities that went into the construction of kindergartens that will not have their own funds to finance the work of aunts. That is why we have also asked for active participation through the state budget to help additionally to such cities and municipalities. But it was also not accepted in the draft budget of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136724	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136725	My colleague Pranic, not only are we speaking critically about this. We have made an amendment to the 200 million budget where we would solve all these areas as other developing and mountainous areas solve the problem of childcare in the whole area. This is what other countries have decided to encourage underdeveloped kindergartens not to bear that cost and to reduce the cost of local self-government precisely because of demographic... development. [[You don't understand.]] What's happening to you? 2/3 of Croatia is empty, and we constructively make our proposal, but it is not accepted. Because it's populism. It's the same as I suggested two years ago here the textbook amendment that was populism. And when they propose their harvester Bandic, then that's okay. Then it's okay because then it's not populism anymore. I think we should do everything for demographic measures, but these are the right measures and the right to... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136726	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Dear colleague Lovrinovic is not present. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. That's enough already. I'll try not to repeat myself too much, although some things I think need to be repeated because they say that repeating is the mother of knowledge. So, when we talk about reforms, about the reform efforts of this government, I think the main and basic question is what the benefits and benefits of what benefits our citizens feel from. I'm afraid of nothing, and I'm going to try to show you through some statistics, and then finally, and through how people really live, how they feel and why they leave Croatia. If we would like to sum up the general problem that we have in Croatia, then I think it is very easy to read from the report of the European Commission to which colleagues from the HDZ and colleagues are so cordially invited. And that is the first sentence in the summary, which is at the very beginning of the document, which says: "A lasting economic growth is becoming a major challenge for Croatia." Therefore, sustained economic growth, since the Commission is finding that, although above the EU average, economic growth has been reduced and is gradually approaching the growth rate that is very slow to increase. In other words, if we translate this into daily speech, short-term results exist but these short-term results are slowly melting, while the medium-term and long-term generally lagging behind. And why are colleagues and colleagues missing? Well, it's because we're very difficult to move from a place that is very difficult to decide on reforms that we need to decide on. Namely, again calling on this same report, which is so air-quoted here, when the European Commission makes general implementation of the recommendations addressed to Croatia in the period from 2014, 2018 to today, there is no progress in 19% of the recommendations. There's limited progress, so it's limited to 30%. Some progress is at 32. So here we're talking about 80% of the recommendations on reforms that are set out for limited progress or not at all. While significant progress is, only records 12% of recommendations are complete implementation 7%, so less than 20%. So these are again the words of the Commission that we can interpret in one way or another, but the facts remain. What I would particularly like to underline here is what the same report says: “In Croatia there are very pronounced territorial differences.” Very pronounced and I am afraid that they are not shrinking, but are only deepening. So, I'll quote the report when it says, "Such as GDP per capita and labour market results differ significantly in certain parts of the country, while the unemployment rate in 2017 ranged from 4.6 in Istria County to 26% in Sisak-Moslavina County. Almost 40% of the unemployed live in eastern and central Croatia although only a quarter of the total population of Croatia lives in these regions." And the report further says: "What is partly the consequence of intensive eviction." Certainly Croatia is not the only country facing this problem. It's not. The whole East of the European Union is experiencing about the same thing to a lesser or greater extent what is called internal, internal migration in the European Union. But why do people decide that? Unfortunately, in Dublin you have a part of the city called Mali Osijek, I am now walking the streets of Dublin are much more likely to meet my peers, than by walking the streets of Zagreb, Osijek or any Croatian city, and when I talk to them about these rare moments and when they decide to return home, usually for holidays, so I will see them for Easter probably, then they say why they left. And they went because they didn't trust the institutions anymore, because they didn't want to wait their whole lives for something to start, because they gave up waiting, our parents said they waited, they welcomed a free state but they didn't welcome freedom, they talked about economic, freedom of decent life, and so on, and so on. And it is amazing that Croatian workers in remote Ireland, so on the largest Croatian island, will appreciate more than in Croatia. It is unfortunate that when you pass through Slavonian villages that they are half empty, someone in the debate before said, I think a colleague from HSS that houses are already collapsing themselves, that customers are not there for them, that there is no interest at all, and here we come to that famous project of Slavonia, colleagues and colleagues clean the PR, nothing else, because anyone who resists and empowers European funds knows that until there is no new Operational Plan Slavonia won nothing that would ever belong to her anyway. And what does this belong to her through the Slavonia project? Roads, social homes, infrastructure, colleagues and colleagues who will eventually have no one to benefit. Therefore, a completely missed investment and therefore young people will not stay in Croatia, which is why young people will not stay in Slavonia. When we talk about regional administration, so let's go, let's go, let's go by segments and talk about reform. We're constantly full of state administration reform, regional self-government, but the only reform I've seen, and here's a witness from time to time, but especially in the mandate of this last government, and the Deputy Prime Minister has spoken as if this government is the only one who's started to do anything, the only thing I see in... units of local, regional self-government is the expansion of administrative departments, the employment of new people, further burden and such a burden and sometimes useless system, because the Countys in this form simply don't make sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why don't they make sense? Because they're simply money-dealers, mostly meant by the central state, and the County in this form only serves to imprison party listeners. And the Osijek-Baranja County is how HDSSB was exchanged, and now HDZ would normally describe them to you as a ship where everyone brings a rock or a pile of stones, or a pocket of stones, and eventually goes, and a new one comes that brings so many stones, and the ship has to sail further, but it sinks more and more to these stones, these people, by hyperproduction of administrative departments that do not serve at the end of the day anything, colleagues and colleagues absolutely nothing. And the only increase in employment that I can talk about in the area of Osijek-Baranja County is exactly that, regional self-government. I would like you to think more strategically, which, of course, is always lagging behind, and also in the recommendations of the European Commission when it comes to fiscal policy or tax policy, is about the diversity of Croatia, the different natural resources that certain regions have and the different development potentials. For example, local self-government units in this case Osijek recognized one potential in the form of the Osijek Software City project, which is one of the few good examples of synergies between local self-government units and private entrepreneurship. Why shouldn't the Slavonia that I've already started to resemble more Sahara than once rich Slavonia in which I guess there will soon be only migrants in the fields, and they don't want to stay in Slavonia, why don't we try to do from it what the Silicon Valley says?, why don't we just try to concentrate it in this region and help it out, why don't we do something else, and so on and so on and so forth. In addition to what I said, the European Commission is talking about it itself, so it is talking about how each region must have a special approach and special attention. I am afraid that both Slavonia and not only Slavonia, but also Croatia is becoming a retirement country, but now the ratio of 1 worker to, or 1.3 workers to, one pensioner. Our pension system won't be able to endure this kind of pressure for long, and we're surprised we don't have foreign investment, we're surprised that people are having a hard time deciding on entrepreneurship, but I'm telling you business security again, investment security, legal security is unfortunately still very, very low. I don't like to point it out as some colleagues and drill so much into your chest with it, but I've spent one part of my working life in the real sector, and the biggest challenge is always to charge you, always. He takes his state immediately, so you pay the VAT according to the bill, and how will you charge it to anyone? So then you enter expensive disputes for 100 kuna bills, say plus VAT, so 123-125 kunas that you know you won't charge for, but you have to go into a slowdown, the second option is to write off your debt but it's not, so you can only do that when the company is yours, this is how you have to justify yourself to someone. Therefore, while there are no clear structural, comprehensive and general reforms, I am afraid that demographics, health care and all these particular policies that we are talking about will continue to fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136728	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic. He had replicas. Dear colleague Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136729	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, you have debated, in your debate touched the subject of public administration in terms of abolishing the County, I absolutely believe that you are right here, because when we naked them and bring them into one of the facts of which the County manages, with health care, with education, irrigation and waste systems. And where are we the worst? In the junkyard, waste management centers. As far as health care is concerned, we all know the state of health homes in part of Croatia, mainly in rural areas. As for schooling, you have 245 district schools still on solid fuels, look at the system of our schooling who appoints the composition of school boards, the founders of the county, as they are named, who are members of these, so all former mayors, mayors, city councils of those who, for example, came out of some compositions. By what the county does? All these topics I've touched with the honor of certain counties in terms of irrigation, but in globally all these 4 most catastrophic The situation in Croatia is exactly what the counties run. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136730	I thank my colleague Pranic. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136731	Well, I agree, by the way, that schooling doesn't control the whole, so big cities or some cities that want to take over education funding, etc., etc. Taking care of the waste is better than wasting time saying where we are, because we're nowhere. County, in any case, county roles should be redefined, because I said that in this form they just don't make sense. It's because the powers have too little and they cost too much, so some cost of benefit would definitely be against this kind of structure, that's what the county looks like. There were even before regional units called communities that had some purpose, and if the purpose of the county is only to coordinate municipalities and cities I say then in this form they are simply too expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136732	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of State, the distinguished colleague would not agree with you on your statement that in the counties there are mostly arrests, not mostly but all of them are the arrests of the parties who, that this is the only purpose of the existence of the county. That's what Bunjac, Pernar or these people who can never become mayors is saying then it's a clear frustration to me, but I think you're a serious politician, and I think your party is serious and you have a few of your mayors, so you're talking about hundreds of people who are doing their job faithfully, I think it's unacceptable. And the fact that that the greater authority of the county is reasonable and it can be discussed, but that you are thus slandering all employees and valuable people who work in the county I think it really makes no sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136734	Thank you. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136735	This would be more like correcting an incorrect quote, I said, I didn't use the word catch once, that's the first thing. Another thing I don't doubt is that some people do their job faithfully, but the county doesn't have the authority, there's just no job they could be doing, it's not their fault. And speaking of party listeners and so forth, I think that you, as a member of the HDZ, have said that HDZ has depolitized the community of fire that you are president, that it is depolitized when a prominent member of a political party president, is so depolitized by the state administration, it probably is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136736	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136737	Thank you very much, Vice President, so here's something I want to say about not knowing which interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as they stated for the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement reforms. Here's what we've heard now is an opinion, a man is running for mayor, and he says he needs to abolish the county, but it's a SDP, and I just can't believe that at that level you're working and trying to serve some of your own truths. What are the reasons why the government needs to account for the SDP? In the first year of the term of office, not all the reforms they expected, i.e. Not enough as they wrote, just in the first year beware, in the first year not enough. Then they noticed that economic growth was slowing down at the 3rd month of last year, and then they said they needed to force the government to do its job. I remember a colleague of Cregar's who was very angry with the prime minister who came to work at noon, came to work at noon no, he often said that here in the assembly as a member of the majority then. And in order for all of this to work, what they have resented for us, we need to establish a national council to monitor reforms. And there should be them and unions and all the factors and then the reforms would go because without that national council there is no reform. I thus realized it in this interpretation on several, 3 or 4 pages, the government responded to 10 pages very argumentably. During that time, I think that this has already aged a little bit in terms of everything and what the government has done and what they predicted at the time, so it didn't come true. Because to know where we are today, we've seen where we started, because there's a lot of things that this government wants to put as a burden, and the beginnings are somewhere else. So we start there where someone stopped in 2015 and we can take it, it stopped the SDP government with its successes, which are at the end of 2015 in all economic data, if we take them, in all the analyses of respected economists, we found that in 2015 we were where we were left in 2011 with all the results, 4 years in nothing so it can be estimated. And they rated it themselves through that famous 21 plan that they came to power in 2011, they promised a lot of things, and in 2015 the prime minister at the time found, we didn't have any plan 21 that was something like that figurative and we didn't promise anyone anything. I already said that today, and when you don't promise anything, then you don't have to do anything. And that's how they acted. And the result of such work is all that we've been through for 4 years, which was saddest at the end of those 2015, a divided people, that famous sentence: "We or they." It was a sentence that was meant to share people and that was a reform of all the reforms of their government. That's what they've been doing for four years. They didn't care about the decline in GDP, about a public friend who grew up for 4 years by 80 billion, came to 90% of the total GDP, didn't care much when we entered the excessive imbalance procedure, but on the second budget, we didn't even bring him in yet, we entered the procedure. And they say, "Well, we had to make some kind of budget." We had three rebalances a year to work at all. Those were reforms. Tax laws changed 50 times in 4 years, 50 times. It's the knowers. What else did they leave us? Credit rating. They say, "It doesn't matter." Today I heard Pejo Grbin that nothing matters, that people don't feel it at all. That's how they acted at the lowest level in two years, in two years alone. What else can we tell you? Restructure the shipbuilding. They say in 2012, "Here's finally one government solved the complete issue of Croatian shipbuilding." 12 billion ruled them out for the value of maritime goods. They say, "For the sake of methodology, we are writing this to the Government of 2011," because we are not interested in the fact that this debt would not be much higher publicly than it has grown, and then they say, "More Croatia will not have problems with shipbuilding. 5 years of subsidies and we have solved everything." All privatized. And in the end, we listen, he says, to the convergence plan they mention in the Interpellation. Do you know how much they received from the European Commission in 2015 for what they did and promised the European Commission they would work? In one of the 5 chapters assessed as minimally positive, minimally positive and 4 negative assessments in all other areas. That's what this government is supposed to look for, and they convince people to do it all day long, that's what we're supposed to do. We have others who support them. Bridge. We've given them twice the opportunity as HDZ to build or work for this country with knowledge, people, to bring, contribute, reform. It's the first time they've destroyed the government in six months, the second time in six months. They've concluded it's easier to be in opposition. Cold opposition, you don't care about anything, and you can talk about anything you want and you know everything better than anyone else and we're watching it. They didn't want responsibility for and one reform that the government here writes on page 10. And it wasn't the government that answered that maybe he should want to deal with politics, but rather argued that with every piece of data that's verifiable. And even today, we say a little bit and antiquated with regard to what has happened to today, means a year later. Fiscal movements, first move, first reform to the first budget of the first tax reform, we remember. Well, in the second year and the second part of that tax reform, and the third part. A relationship to local self-government, decentralisation. Well, we were once lucky to have been promised some sort of trust fund that never happened when we were abolished you remember the Law and income tax when they changed it and took away the local self-government of 2 billion kunas. They didn't give it up like this government, but they took 2 and said, "We'll pay you back 500." And we never returned 500, and we have to respect that because they rated themselves very successful. When we look at them in relation to the workers, the way they solved the issue of workers, so these strikes were every day here on Mark's square. How did they solve the pension reform? Mr Miranda Mrsic comes in as minister and says in 2014 "All Croats will be working until 67." I remember here we discussed it. But he didn't have on the other side of the HDZ that attacked it the way they did. There was an argument. Is that... but that you pass a law claiming that the retirement limit is 67 years, saying after a few years: "No. [[You don't understand.]] Well, we didn't do anything. It's some new law. We're not 67 years old. And now we will organise a referendum for you and we will lead to sign against what we brought in 2014. "So what kind of policy is this? What kind of relationships these are, and how people are experiencing it, we've seen it in the elections in Lika. 3% of people who still understand SDPs in this state. It's just that man, I'm not going to talk to you about the minimum wage or just pension reform, about the state of public finances, about paying off 3 billion kunas of certain guarantees as they said about the resolved and restructured shipbuilding. Not only them, but the IDS and he supported them in that. And today they run away from themselves and their own responsibilities. It's not easy to talk to a girl like that. They don't admit to anyone, and I think they're even a little jealous of this government. They have nothing to say. I listened to Pejo Grbin here about his vision i.e. about what this government is doing. He praised everything I understood. They have no counterarguments and that's what brought them into this state. They have no answer to this policy. And all of these attempts to make space feel like they're taking care of something is just once again the summation of defeat after some vote I don't know which one in a row and something that SDP certainly doesn't need in this state, because I didn't understand any of this stuff they wanted except that they created space to be able to once again talk about how this government doesn't know anything. We've seen how much they know and we know what they left us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136738	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136739	A fellow Boric must really give you credit for how skillful you are in twisting the thesis. So you're talking about who's running the country and who's responsible, etc. Here, if we're going to take the 90th year as the beginning of the modern Croatian state, you're going to run it for 21 years, and we're going to be 8. And then who's more responsible for the state? The ones who ran it for 21 years or the 8? When you talk about the constructiveity of your colleagues, so your party voted while you were in opposition against everything that was on the Parliament's agenda, absolutely everything. From the report on the situation in the area which is a clean report to the legal proposals. Why? Because you're sore that you're not in power. I understand that it's the only way you can function, it's being in power, it's black bags, but constructive you're not ready to be. We're not afraid to support anything when we think it's a step forward. I've never seen that on your part. Besides, you're giving someone away, and we all know whose Sanader was head of the party and that your party is still in court for some things. And so did Mr. Sanader anyway. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136740	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. Reply from fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136741	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. You said that we were against everything, so I remember the first coming here, first Minister of Finance Linic, who came with, say, the Law on Pre-price settlements, and between us there was this debate, and if we're going to back it up, here's my colleague Schuker. We supported it, so when we saw what you did after all that, and we changed that law, I don't know how many times to come into some state that it had some kind of institutional form and that the institutions were bringing in, and not that there were pre-curricular settlements going on, I don't know where in what places, etc., we supported it and how. Look at the agendas all over here, what we thought was good, but that wasn't much, almost nothing. What will you support when nothing, after all, results nothing, you promise nothing, you've done nothing, and they're all your fault. Well, there's no measure of responsibility for the state for years of government. By which, so you've put us more in charge of these two terms than in all others in.../incomprehensible/... what you're talking about, in just one term 80 billion And you haven't solved any problems. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague, Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136742	The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136743	Thank you very much, dear colleague Boric would first make a correction, you can't tell you we're something to you, because of these people present here, our only vice president, Mr. Brkic, was the one who spoke to us. I haven't seen you anywhere that in any of those conversations that, so here it is, our vice president he can say that we're having conversations in any direction, you can't take credit for someone who, where you didn't participate, so you just didn't participate, you didn't give us a chance. And if I look at the way you're talking, just maybe you're the one who made that government fall apart, that there were other people who talked at that table, who gave a word of what, then that would probably have survived. However, there are enough individuals with you just like you who will do anything to bring their dissatisfaction to the right to say possible arrangements, but consider this.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136744	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric. Can you please turn off the microphone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136745	Thank you, fellow Panenic, as if you were talking about MOST, everything you told me, so that applies to you. I didn't mention in any bad way what we said we tried to do twice with the Most, but that you decided after six months that it was best to split up because it only contributes to this country. There are some who have thought differently and if you think that destruction is the primary moment in politics when you should just talk ugly, critical, or anything like you talk about all day, all day long, nothing in this country is good for you, and that is the reflex of an offended party who simply decided that you should make a move after which the prime minister told them to bring there or make these decisions and replace this minister. It has affected you so much that you can't recover to this day and that's your relationship to politics, and everything else you've given to someone or not, that's a different story.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136746	I thank my colleague, Boric. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136747	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, your debate is completely archaic, anakronic, and therefore completely pointless. You were full of SDP debates, so as long as you're pulling me by the tongue, I'll tell you next. This party was led by people of different capacities we can say for them that they were like this or that they were like this, but this party is never or will be led by someone who is a convicted criminal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136748	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136749	I don't think this last one should be too much to answer, given that some of your processes and your former members and mayors and others shouldn't be mentioned because it's because it's personal to someone and I don't think you'd agree that it's the work of some mayor and your work because you're in the SDP. You wouldn't agree with that, and politically we can talk about who's more likely to say something, so you'd be that interesting or catch a few political points. As for the fact that we mentioned SDP, so I said that when I talk about impellation, we need to know where we started as a government would be able to evaluate ourselves at the end of three years now for a little bit of this term, we need to know. And if you don't mind, then don't bother or bother, then don't engage in this kind of spells that we've told you we're grateful, that we can tell you everything we've done with the reforms over the past three years and compare ourselves with you. You didn't have any.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136750	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136751	Dear Vice President, you mentioned the shipbuilding and 3.1 billion kuna that had to be paid for the guarantees now, compared to how some fellow macro-economicists are saying that you would now have time to save something and so should there be a surplus in the budget, however, how to save in such a way that something from the past must be recovered, and we know which and cannot be saved for some better time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136752	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136753	Thank you, dear colleague Peric, we have learned the most about shipbuilding in the past few months and have become a top topic in the Republic, and the results of the reforms of those who call us that we have not made any reforms. They came here in 2012 and said we finally solved Croatia's shipbuilding and Brodosplit and Brodotrogir and 3 May and Uljanik, finally and for that we paid so much, we owned the maritime well-being, we entered the government from 2011, determined 5 years of subsidies, when the privatisation was completed, and the restructuring plan has been implemented in 5 years. Today, when we pay 3 billion dollars that no one blinks in the Republic of Croatia that we can not introduce ourselves, I don't know what taxes or additional budget revenues to do so or to take away someone who might mean something. They say, "More 10. " etc., etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136754	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague of the Sunana Glavak. [[Intruder Boric: This is the attitude towards public money.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So if fellow Boric elaborated a comparison of data from a few years ago, I will be talking about the recent data and concerning the work of this government in just over 2 years. What is the fact after 6 and a half years thanks to the efforts and results of the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again I will say Croatia is in an investment credit rating. Which means opening up the space for wage growth and further economic growth, which means opening up a space to create new jobs. Unlike a few years ago, a small depression, when the average growth was 4 to 5% then we were in debt at 10%, we're growing 3% today, but we're reducing the debt by just as much. This growth took place on sound grounds without new responsibilities, of course and the last recent recent confirmation of all this is the SMP rating agency particularly praised tax reform, but also pension reform. And of course what was before as a factor of instability each time apostrophe, is now apostrophe as a solution to the issues of importance for economic security, which is the resolution of Agrokor. All of these were key indicators to continue structural reforms, to return investment ratings, so it was one of the key ambitions listed in the government programme when it took responsibility for Croatia's leadership. There was a question of pay here, of growth, of pay. I think this opens up space for their further, further growth, and also a few components must be combined with that. So GDP growth, debt reduction, we had surplus, economic growth, increased average and minimum wage, increased employment and reduced unemployment. In less than 2 years, the government's average salary grew to about 710 kuna to more than 6 thousand 350 kuna. Of course it's not much, it's not enough and it's not the same in all parts of Croatia. We especially know this from the north where on average the lowest salaries in the Republic of Croatia are and we would like that in these industries, and that in my Međimurje, both Varazdin and Zagorje people have higher average salaries. But that is what the government must face and face and will continue to work on. The biggest one-time increase in minimum wage has occurred since 2008. So I'll remind you. At the end of 2018, the minimum wage net of 3 thousand kuna and it is not much and it is hard to live with, we are aware of that. We know that pensions are not big enough, and we all wish he hadn't faced such numbers. What we did or what was actually done in finance was also highlighted in all the research, so if you want the European Commission's review that tax reform was one big, true right of reform. I will remind only all of us who come from local levels that, for example, for units of local and regional self-government, the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government has further strengthened budgetary revenues, with an additional 2 billion and 100 million kuna. The municipalities were covered by 550 million kuna. So it's an average of 35% more income than they had before the law went into effect. These are very concrete and very measurable data and shifts that the Government has invested so that the inequality that we are talking about and who we are seeking to make these balancings somehow available to everyone and that Croatia is truly equally developed or in every part of Croatia that people have an equal chance. This trail will also continue to be a continuous dissipation of our citizens, as well as of our economies. Six and a half billion kuna tax discharges were only in three waves of tax reform and 2.3 billion kuna of administrative disbursement. It was a major reform. We often go back in time. However, we need to know that running the country means solving important economic and social problems. It's not always easy and we don't always think the same thing. That is why I believe that the Croatian Parliament should be a place of constructive debate, but that we all have a common goal. In each segment, the government faces problems that have been seen and does not leave them to be forgotten. Popularly, “they don’t sweep them under the carpet, ” but rather not to let someone else handle them, but to solve them on their own in continuity as possible, and I say just over two years of the term of office of this government. We can be proud of what was done. I find it hard to listen from some colleagues to see Croatia in black, not seeing any positive shift and not sending a single word to our citizens or young people. No one lives from us, I hope in parallel space. We all have our parents. Thank God we all have grandparents and we see how people live, how they retire, and I think we're all aware that we don't live somewhere else, but live in our country. And all of us who are here can certainly find some positive perspective and message that we could send to our fellow citizens. As for the family, there were words here that nothing much was done either in that demographic sense or it didn't help young families, so I'll just remind myself that by 3 times the untaxable part of the baby's allowance was increased from 3 thousand 360 kuna to 10 thousand kuna. Maybe we forgot that? Maybe it just kind of seems to you by itself and maybe there's a lot of numbers? No one remembers it anymore, so I think it is necessary to repeat it, and this actually applied to 92 thousand children's parents and 150 thousand children in the Republic of Croatia. The peace reform, which was the same word or criticism, is better said, a balanced system has been established, pensions have been increased by 6.3%, and since 01 July will be increased by 3.13%, here is the secretary of state, I think these numbers we're talking about are actually true, but of course they'll continue to work to make them bigger. As for employment policy, the government has invested 4.5 billion kuna in the past two years, and the number of employees has increased to a million-sixty-six thousand. In the past few years, the rate of youth unemployment has been reduced, and I think it is important to mention it, and the government is also working on reliefs regarding employers to give our young people a chance on the labour market, as well as to encourage the businessmen to just these young people and to employ them. A few words about the judiciary, we are aware of a judicial system that is important for some legal certainty, whether investment, or civil, which people talk about a lot, six laws last year have been amended to increase the efficiency and functionality of the Croatian judiciary, and it has already been said, it seems to me that in one of the replicas, the number of unsolved cases actually decreases by around 40,000 a year. The big reform is also done in the system of state administration, that's what we know to question, we always say whether civil servants, deputies do something, don't do anything, whether they are arrests, we call them ugly names, so I think this reform will also contribute to people actually understanding how important the system of state administration is and how much this reform will contribute to the fact that people who work in the system are added value to that system, not that by changing any policy, we simply change them and that everyone is moving again, they start over. Given that I have little time left, I will only say that it is a major reform measure and the State Inspectorate that has united the affairs of 17 inspections, it began on April 1st, and what the employers said, and what the Croatian Employers' Association said, it is important that they have such a partner and that there will be better coordination and uniformity of the actions we learn from the State Inspectorate. I'm going to conclude, rationally and inclusively, policy-thinking, not apriorial criticism and apathy of argument debate, I think that we all have a common goal, regardless of which side of the political spectrum, if something is good, so at least nod like that and say good, but we all need to work together to make this thing that hasn't been done to the end in a reform sense actually live right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136756	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glavak. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad I've come to order after this long day, so here we heard a lot of things in this Interpellation today, but none of it has anything to do with what it says. It is amazing to me that on such a serious topic that colleagues from the SDP say is crucial for Croatia's future, they write literally one page of some argument. So the entire Interpletion has four pages, one page is an explanation, and in that explanation there is literally nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing, except calling for some previous evaluations of the previous years of the European Commission. But what is interesting, the European Commission is contrary to what colleagues here have said or implicated, the European Commission has practically found some or limited progress in all areas, and in two areas significant progress. And what are the two areas? These are pension reform and tax reform or fiscal policy, which is interesting because the SDPs who are calling on the European Commission are mostly attacking the very reforms that this European Commission praises, and now I really don't know who's crazy here. Here is a concrete pension reform, says the Commission in the report published on 27.02. this year, the real challenge is to provide an adequate pension system, partly due to the fact that the working life is among the shortest in the European Union, which is partly resolved to some extent by this pension reform, and then we have this assessment that the SDPs agree with since they are calling on the European Commission, and they are, in parallel, resenting the government for the extension of 67 years that they have reintroduced again. So it's really not clear to me who in that SDP has been executed and who stands for what it stands for, because it's obvious they're not sure themselves and it's not clear to themselves what their position is on these issues, meaning whether they're for pension reform, they're not, are they, whether it's too short an internship that exists, whether they need to reform it or not, but rather, they're saying that they think that someone will like it when they come to the cameras. Next fellow Grbin said an interesting thesis, which is that raising the rating has nothing to do with everyday life, I think it shows one complete ignorance of how the system works, means credit rating directly depends on interest rates, so I guess we all know that, and precisely, this rise in credit ratings will lead to a decrease in interest rates and, respectively, the previous rise in credit ratings in the term of this government has led to the fact that the interest rates have been practically halved. It means that... interest rates on housing loans were 6-7-8%, now about 3%, so I think it has a very specific impact on the everyday life of citizens, and I really don't know how some SDP colleagues can say, I can say it doesn't affect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, today we pay thanks to the smart refinancing of loans at lower interest rates, for interest rates of 9 billion kuna per year, at the time of the SDP government we paid 12 billion kuna per year, so 3 billion kuna per year we have more to invest in infrastructure, in education, in demographics, in youth and so on, and how someone can say that this does not affect the everyday life of citizens, it is simply unimaginable to me. As far as fiscal policy is concerned, the results of the surpluses since 2017 are 3.2 billion kuna, to simplify that is to say that 3.2 billion kuna countries have earned more than they have spent in the situation where we have reduced taxes and where the tax disbursement of citizens is a total of 6.5 billion kuna. So, there are fewer taxes, citizens and businesses are disbursed, and yet more, we make a lot more and the surplus is, or we make a lot more money than the state has spent. I think it's called a wise fiscal policy and it's something that's definitely a positive reform, I don't think even the SDP can deny it. What was it like at the time of the SDP? So, at the time of the SDP, public debt increased by 74 billion kuna. So, between the beginning and the end of their term of office, the difference in public debt was 74 billion kuna. So 74 billion kuna has increased public debt. In 2014, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 of 18 December 2015 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's accession to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation of the Schengen acquis. When the crisis across Europe was practically over, they were in the deficit, so they spent more than they earned, In that previous term, before the first government mandate, we had some kind of growth that was based on borrowing unlike now. But the SDP was in debt, and the result was recession, almost their entire mandate was recession, no matter how many recessions were not in Europe and that they managed to put us in debt for 74 billion kuna. Where those money went, it's really fascinating to me, probably some of their failed projects, but that's what needs to be pointed out. So here we have lower taxes, surplus budgets, economic growth, and there we have debt, deficit, recession, economic downturn, and all of that with an even greater tax increase, do we know that SDP has also increased taxes in its term of office. Furthermore, there were talk of workers and employment. It has already been said several times that in the term of this government, the number of employees has increased by 100,000, which is a very, very, very concrete result. The minimum wage is over 500,00 kn higher, which shows that if this government cares about someone, takes care of the most needed and gives them the most care, it also enables them and tries to make a decent life as easy as possible. If I could finish my speech, please, thank you very much, thank you very much. Furthermore, as far as demographic policy is concerned, colleague Glavak mentioned some results and some measures, but the results of these measures are already being seen. So we have more live births in 2018 than in 2017, it's a very concrete, tangible result of this government's demographic policy. On the other hand, we know that during the mandate of the SDP, the number of live births has been reduced virtually all along. As for the departure of young people and the departure of the population... I have written down some scientific papers on this, so I can say that in all EU Member States the largest exodus occurred right after entering, simply because of the freedom of movement of workers, or because of the freedom of movement of people. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Similarly, it happened in the Republic of Croatia, simply for what? Not because of the situation it is now, but because of the situation inherited from previous years because we know that the result of SDP's borrowing, tax hikes, etc., was recession, people had no business and, of course, as soon as they were given the opportunity to leave. But to say that this government is to blame, it definitely has nothing to do with the relationship, nor with common sense, and ultimately the increase in the number of live births shows that it is obvious, and that departure has been reduced that part of the people and I believe that these trends will eventually be reversed as has happened to other new EU Member States. Next, we've heard a lot of pathetics from the SDP about young people, about leaving again, about exodus, etc. Namely, what have they done for those most educated young people in the Republic of Croatia? They made it practical that during their term they had completely closed their entry into the system of science and higher education for young scientists, young scientific money. So, the whole, all that employment policy, rejuvenation of systems, etc. It stopped during the SDP. They estimated it wasn't their priority, their priorities were someone else's. This government did exactly the opposite, and compared to 2015, I think it's a very important number. The budget for PhDs and post-doctorands has been increased by 3 times, so the country's triple budget has been increased, so that part of which the state sets out means, not from European funds, but from domestic resources, so that the best, best-quality young scientists can stay in the Republic. It's a very specific measure. The budget did not grow three times, so to say that this is the result of economic growth, more money in the budget, etc. So here we're talking about growth that is several times bigger for young PhDs, young scientists, than it was in SDP. As for science and education, there is a lot of it said, I would certainly say that we have launched the largest investment cycle in the last few decades, there are several major projects like Ruđer Boskovic, that is a billion kuna for scientific infrastructure, that is also 373 million kuna for scientific centres of excellence that have been running around during the SDP and the financing problems have not been solved, and the problems have been solved by this government and has allowed 100 young scientists to remain working for scientific centres of excellence, for our institutes and universities in the Republic, very concrete results. As far as the judiciary is concerned, we have already said, so the number of pending cases is 100 000 even, over 100,000 less than before, a number of reform laws have been passed, in preparation for a new executive law that will be safe in this HS before the summer break, in fact I believe very quickly which reduces the costs of the implementation, prevents the implementation of cases of small value in real estate, etc., which again shows concern for the very most needed in Croatian society. Conclusion, SDP, a lot of stories, a lot of media attention, nothing concrete, but I am glad they gave us the opportunity to present all these figures and repeat that the Croatian public sees who works and who sells demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136758	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. We have replicas, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136759	Thank you very much. My fellow Hawk, you've done quite an interesting job, who's working and who's selling demagogues. You say in our explanation of this interpretation we are calling for a report from the European Commission. Well, of course, the European Commission is monitoring the application or progress in implementing structural reforms, not the ones that she wrote to us, but that this government wrote and sent to the European Commission, and it tells us that we are not successful in doing this, as well as the corruption perception index in Croatia that we fell 3 points in comparison with 2015, and also some international institutions tell us that we have fallen 10 places in the freedom of the media compared to 2016 and 2013 respectively, and normally to ask you for health. And you question the objective indicators that some international institutions are following and are asking us to trust you. It's just like when a husband or wife catch a partner clumsy or in a hoax and they say Darling, darling, you believe... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136760	Thank you, colleague Voter. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136761	My fellow Members, thank you, Mr. Vice President, you did not exactly follow the Voice because if you followed, you would have heard it was not our problem to report to the European Commission that is your problem. You are criticising those things that the European Commission calls significant progress, such as pension reform, you've been spitting it all along, for months now, doing a referendum story about it. So obviously you have, which is why I said, you don't really know what you're calling for, and that story that the commission claims we're a failure, you've introduced us into the procedure of an excessive deficit that we've come out of and we've also recently come out of the macroeconomic excessive macroeconomic imbalances, which means, and that's just recognition of the results of this government, that. So that's very specific, so the commission has admitted that we are no longer in the situation of excessive imbalances, so we went out. So it's the commission that dehonored us, and in your time we've entered all these procedures that made us special surveillance this whole time. So again, go to matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136762	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136763	I thank you, I would first refer to this about demographics, 431 children more were born just as much as the consequences of football euphoria around then those children were born after what was so strong and cheerful those days, but just to tell you the politics of Sanader's government had moved fewer citizens in six years than Plenkovic in one year. I'm interested in something else entirely, which you, as a lawman with a PhD in science, say to repeat gaff scandalous Minister Kujundzic where he is once again trying to influence the judicial authority, and you know what a trio of power means. And now, the first thing Bosnjakovic got away from him and said he wouldn't even respond to that request that he tried to influence what started this process where doctors sued for overtime and now we're having this affair where he directly wrote to the court in Bjelovar, to explain to him again Djuro Sessa that it's an influence on the power of fate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What do you say as one lawyer to the minister's behavior?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136764	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136765	Thank you very much, here's my colleague Strenja. I'm glad that apart from being a doctor that you're obviously also a sociologist because you've been very well detecting the reason for the increase in the number of borns, I don't know if any scientific research will show that it was because of that, but I don't think we can really throw ourselves around here with such stories and speculation. So, what's the fact that Croatia is progressing, as far as the exodus of how many people have gone, there are still clear and accurate data. That's what we'll see when it's going to be a population list, when it's going to come down in the last 10 years. The fact is, as I said in most countries, the biggest exodus was right after they entered, in Croatia it was there in 2014, in 2015 at the time of the SDP when people were looking for happiness elsewhere because of all inherited problems from before long-term unemployment. And what's the situation now, we're showing an increase in the number of live births that obviously the number of young families does not decrease. As for the pressure on the court, I don't know exactly what it's about, and that's not the point of this debate, so you don't really get into it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136766	Thank you. The next replica, my fellow Stranger, and you had a replica, I'm asking you nicely if you have something so close and important with Mr. Falcon, so go outside and take care of it. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136767	I thank you, dear colleague Sokol, respected colleagues and colleagues, I understand that you believe that the legitimate defence of the government in 2019 is to call for what the Government did in 2014, and then you will surely admit that it would legitimately defend the government, we should talk about the government from 2008 to 2011, right, that's also logical. Now, about the government from 2012 to 2014, in 2015 I will read some, some not the Morning List, the Evening List, the Free Dalmatia, the New List, the Index portal, the T-portal portal, the Net portal and 24 hours, etc., and we read about the government's work from 2008 to 2011, the Municipal State Attorney's Office, the County State's Attorney's Office, the Municipal Court, the County Court and here today the Supreme Court. So, now that we're back in 2008, I'm going to get you.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136768	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136769	Thank you very much, colleague Bauk. I was talking about the government about the SDP, and I'm saying something about the legislator's legitimacy, because if someone tells someone not to implement structural reforms, they need to say what they've done, which has led to all these problems that we're dealing with now and all these closet skeletons, from closets like shipbuilding. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, I think that HDZ, in particular, means that HDZ is absolutely showing zero tolerance towards crime against criminal justice. So these, those persons who have been convicted by law, are no longer members of the HDZ, and some persons who are entitled to a crime are not only members of the SDP but are presidents of the recently elected city organisations of the same SDP. So you really can't tell us anything about it, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136770	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136771	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, this way we could discuss numbers by morning and then we could talk numbers like this, and then others could read certain other figures, and the fact is that the figures per capita are growing because people are moving out, and that's what we're worried about in MOST. We are also concerned by 154,000 people who have left continental Croatia and of which 90 thousand people have left five Slavonian Countys, and that is what worries us, we are concerned that 1/5 of Croatia, the citizens are exposed to poverty and we are concerned that in fact 10% of the citizens are energy poor and that every year 37 million kuna for heating and 130 million kuna for electricity vouchers are given into the wind instead of putting microsolars on roofs and that the problem of energy poverty is trying to solve rationally. We're also worried that 110 thousand people have moved to Germany, so that's what we're worried about. We have proposed a series of legal solutions, one of them is the Law on Self-Energy, that every citizen, that every entrepreneur can put as much electricity as its production or household actually spends on its roof and that this household and this production is sustainable. We know today that we are importing electricity and that we are actually exposed then to uncertainty in the economy. A large share of household consumption and production are precisely energy, it is our duty to create public policies that would actually suit citizens, and entrepreneurs. As far as demographics are concerned, according to the 2017 report of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, the fewer children were never born 100 years ago. Because of that and other difficult circumstances, meaning evictions and everything, we're going to have a breakdown of the health and pension pillar, and we can pretend it's not going to happen, and we can spill from hollow to empty, but that's what's going to happen because this situation is unsustainable. That is why we have proposed a Law on maternity benefits that every woman who gives birth to a third child or twins who decides to return to her post after a year would receive a second and third year of those 2,328.00 kunas who today have the right to only those women who actually stay with their children, in this way they would be economically independent, thus they would not be left behind from the labour market, and in this way they would decide, perhaps even easier to make a decision on further motherhood. Also through a number of other legislative proposals, we have also suggested that teachers working on EU funds have 30% higher salaries, that they are not actually downsized by their captains rather than that those teachers increase the coefficients that work on projects of certain complexity during the duration of the project, it would be much simpler to resolve than to have directors organise 10%, 20% or 30% of the working time actually teaching. We also suggested that 80% of the amount of construction material, that those citizens in the area of 304 units of local self-government can actually build there and start their homes, because once rural areas leave citizens they will no longer be able to start investment cycles, because no entrepreneur will open production plants in places where there are no 20-50-100 or 1000 working-age residents. When we talk about the National Reform Plan to make it clear to all citizens, according to the European Commission report, only 7% of the government's draft reforms were implemented. If you were actually in grade school, in elementary school, and actually solved 7% of the tests successfully, what grade would you get? Well, not enough, that's the assessment of this government. In total, 17 million kunas of 880 million kuna were spent in the public administration of the Action Plan voted by the European Commission in the second month of 2017. Also, through this Action Plan, it is predicted that more public administrations are not actually a polygon for the recruitment of party personnel, but actually to ensure central employment modeled for large graduates, that all those who graduate from the university access to testing and, based on their excellence, get the opportunity to work in the public sector as well. As for the reform of the Agency, it can only be said that there has been a transfer of employees from the Agency to the Ministry in which it is located, some of which have actually come from there. With 27.9 billion kuna in 2018 for the salaries of public officials, it is now 29.1 billion. Countys have completely failed, failed to organise the meanings of education policy, health policy, as well as those concerning transport and those concerning the waste itself. We are today facing in fact complete problems in certain areas managed by the County, which is, for example, in the education sector that 25% of the total regional schools in Croatia are heating up on solid fuels, so today it is next to all the sun that Croatia is exposed to. As far as EU funds are concerned, there is a bad situation, we are last on the scales of the use of funds, 17% of the funds actually passed to Bregan from 10.7 billion kuna, the procedures granted to entrepreneurs of entrepreneurial support actually lasts for over 200 days, the funds are allocated to entrepreneurs by the fastest finger model, and the Ministry of Science and Education assesses scientific projects that need to move forward with world trends, 16 months without actually having a base of competent and quality experts who can be engaged at the moment to get the process going as quickly as possible. I also have to say that as much as it is worth 10.7 billion ERU, it's worth as much as you can buy for that money, there are a number of problems in the water supply sector in which projects are actually arriving 30% more expensive than what is planned. So, if we can't finance today's waterworks in Velika Gorica for what's scheduled in 2016. When a tender is called, rather than a 30% more expensive offer, then we don't have the same value for money and there's a problem, which means, the outflow of labour, the inability of the construction sector to respond to needs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No competition will be opened for young and small farmers, so I wonder who will then use the infrastructure that will be built through rural development measures, unclassified roads, water supply routes, who will actually use kindergartens that are available since 2014. contracts signed in December 2018 And all of this, while all of this is happening, we're talking about demographic recovery, this government has fallen to answer this problem because what you're proposing is selective measures for only those who have paid, they have an undefined contract and those who are creditworthy because only you, according to the public government's policy, have the right to demographic renewal. As for the child's allowance, there are 200, 300 and 250,00 kn, and political parties are provided according to the representative in the county assemblies 5.00 kn per elected representative. I must stress that we will find it very difficult to implement projects in the water sector, she in transport, and also to say that, according to the Ministry of Transport, I have referred a number of issues to which I have not yet been answered about HZ and infrastructure, and in fact, the use of money by individual projects, a total of 439 million kunas in special accounts, and I am very interested in how these funds are used. I must say, for national co-financing, the ministry has raised a 600 million-euro loan that we will be returning by 2042. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136772	Thank you, colleague Chikotic. We have replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136773	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sonja, you mentioned the energy policy of this government, so you made a significant note that there are other alternatives, but when we look at the energy policy itself, what have we been talking about lately? We're just talking about the growth of the imposition, right? If electricity is something that is, we could say, the civil rights of any man's property, if gas becomes the main energy that is being promoted, if the prices of that rise, what happens to the standard of our citizens? We're dropping standard. There's less and less purchasing power. We're talking about an increase in salary here today, where did that increase go? It went primarily towards those resources that have been cheap so far, did not go to improve the quality of life, in purchase, perhaps some modernization of that life, but simply covers the costs that are being raised and costs It's growing. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136774	...college Panenic. Answer, colleague Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136775	Dear counterpart Panenic, therefore energy prices are rising, life costs are rising, I have asked the minister of construction and spatial planning about the energy reconstruction of family houses. So, it was also planned in 2018, there were some formal conditions that prevented it, but in 2018. They're all removed. In the launch of a new call for energy recovery, the Minister in charge replied that the specificities of the new target group of beneficiaries of funds should be taken into account, as well as broader aspects of the construction market such as the availability of the construction operation and the availability of the relevant building material. So this government has fallen in all possible exams, and now it's being taken out that there's no building material for the energy reconstruction of houses and available construction operations at the level, so, rebuilding energy houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136776	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136777	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, representatives of the government, today we are discussing a point that was put on the agenda more than a year ago. But what's actually interesting is that it was put on 5 years ago. It would have been just as current if we had discussed it for 5 years. We'd probably discuss it the same way. In fact, we would like to discuss how in Zagreb those who exercise power make decisions that are best for the entire population of the Republic of Croatia. Then when I return home to a place in the far east of the Republic of Croatia, I can say that maybe I'm one of the happier ones, because when I look left and right of my house is the hurricane. Those who are less fortunate, they actually have a ruin, an abandoned house with which to live, where they maintain, means not only to maintain their own, but to cut down the grass and left and right, clean up the snow and left and right, and then even happier those who have the first neighbour, the happiest ones who have a child who invest in and try to create some life, and then it happens to us in this life in fact what we expect from politics, to create the same conditions, that we have the same conditions as every resident in the Republic, lived in the municipality of Tompojevci, the city of Vukovar, Zagreb, and we can also say anywhere, in Germany, Ireland, but we don't have that. We don't have what happens to us that someone changes our number of post office, cuts our mailman, but they don't allow him to inform us, so he says rationalization is, and then we happen to talk about a network of primary schools, so the minister says, so we don't think we're going to create folklore, right, those kids who are in these schools and they're dealing with social activities, they're keeping that life alive, so folklore is a part of that life, but it's unacceptable for her, so she thinks it should connect, disappear. It's gonna happen to us that we're missing a teacher, we're missing someone who was a parent, so we're running out of parishioner, and then one day people are gonna tell us what a minister is going to do to us, which is what any of us, when we don't have any more lives, are going to have no life. We can talk here about the government's efforts that they think they did the best. And probably from the speech I've been listening to here today, I believe you've made the best possible that this government of Andrej Plenkovic has made the best decisions it can make. But what is important to stress, your efforts are not enough at all, not close enough to change something crucial in this country. And then what happens to us is that we have a problem when we need to communicate an increase in electricity prices, these are external factors, it's not us, it's not us, it's not us, we've done everything, everything is possible. It is the only HEP that makes the biggest gains on regulated activity that then passes that profit into the state budget, flows towards Petrochemia, flows towards LNG. Well, then it happens to us that we're going to grow now, the price of gas has increased. But in that price of gas, everyone makes money, it's the only consumer they've collected, so everyone else makes solid profits from that transporter, to the distributor, to the supplier, but everything's great, it's a good policy, it's the best policy that's going on in this country. When you need to go to the east of Croatia, we now have workers for some seasonal jobs you would simply be most fortunate if those asylum seekers who only want to pass through Croatia were detained even if one day at least. So that you may pay them what they can do to help you, because you have no one else to pay. You can't pay for someone you don't have. If you don't have anyone who's more in the workforce, who can maintain that space that can help you. What are we pretending to be? We're turning Ministers into dust. From that area that was vineyarding, fruity, where there were plants. Borovo where it is, it's under your jurisdiction, where 20 thousand people have worked there now 600, 700, 800 will be, more or less. I can see what I can see if they sneeze in this situation right now around the Oilies, they'll be gone. So it'll just disappear, it doesn't have them. And what today in the assembly is a key topic, the health director suggested one from HDZ is a man who has experience in his lifetime, he proposed a good project, the home of health will build a sports playground because of what he did best from his point of view. The home of health is the best equipped, all local hospitals are perfectly equipped. Doctors, there are enough specialists, doing all the services for the population, so with the extra money, they don't know where they're going to invest 4 million kunas of their own money in a sports playground. In a healthy body, a healthy spirit, that's a good intention. But we're just talking about our people when we need them, for example. Go to the dentist for a new year, they need to pull out of my place 50km for Osijek, from some other maybe a hundred miles, but that's not the problem. It's not a problem what actually, we see that everything is complicated. What I'm trying not to be as pathetic as some colleagues are saying, let's not talk all the time about how great we are. Let's not talk about how this House has made the best decisions here, let's not talk about this home, and the motion for these decisions has been made by the government where you're the minister, let's not talk about how we've done something until these people really feel it. We need all of us together, you most because you are in power right now, and we here need to talk to you, try to do something, we need to blend in a little bit, because I think people would appreciate us a lot more if they saw the results, not the pamphlets about how the government is successful, not ours talking about how we recognize that you are a failure, not the statistics that are always being used because the average of Zagreb, Dalmatia, Slavonia can't be something to measure ourselves because if we look at the average, then there should be no project Slavonia, Baranja and Srem because on average it's good in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem or on average it's good in Sinj, but on average it's good everywhere. And on average, we should all go to one Germany, and as many of us as there are, we could make one a little more serious city, and there we would be as good as the average, because they would not actually support politics through their elected representatives, as this government has led. And I know that Ministers here need to defend all of your colleagues in the government and I know that you're trying in certain parts to make progress, but we can see from that effort, you can say I'm going to be someone who solved the shipbuilding, so we shut it down. Okay, you've solved it, that's the solution. That's what we heard and actually from you, that's the solution and it's not the problem anymore. The problem is when to make something out of it and when to close it. So let's cut out the small villages, cut out the small schools, cut out the district schools, cut out the small farms, the small OPGs, the small entrepreneurs, when we get rid of it, then we can say all the problems we've solved, we'll have the political elite, the economic elite and the elite of those who might actually be in the background managing both of them. So once again I appeal only to these interpretations, we know that they will not touch your feathers because most will continue to support what, therefore there is a majority in the Parliament that when both good and evil support it. But on the other hand, the majority who should be giving votes to both you and us who are here and all the new ones who are showing up, actually less and less believe that you who are acting in power or someone who claims to exercise authority can change the situation in this society. And it's sad when we go out somewhere, when we hear comments that we are actually an ugly duck in the EU, who neither knows how to take care of ourselves, nor knows how to fight for our right, but what we are constantly creating a problem. So we create problems, but then when we have to solve them, we just end them. We'll put an INA out of the way, it won't be a problem anymore, right? We've solved that, too. And so on and so forth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136778	I thank my colleague Panenic. We have a replica of dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136779	Thank you very much, colleague Panenic, you come from your neighborhoods, when you come to see as I do that simply what the Deputy Prime Minister is saying today in the name of the Government that he is essentially speaking under these lights of the reflectors quite what is not realistic on the ground, and that is easy to do, you have explained, and I will make it even easier to say what is happening. The entire part of the Dalmatian burner literally doesn't exist, and this government has declared Drniš a developed area, and they have taken the criterion that the number of unemployed, of course when there are no people and no residents, is unemployed, when they all went away. There's no cat there anymore because there are no mice, they don't have an empty area, here's a colleague behind the speech of Jurič-Martinchev you'll see it's an empty area. So you can't see how our people live.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136780	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. My colleague Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136781	A fellow Bull, it's wonderful to come to one Drnish and that feta of their prosciutto when you stick it to your forehead, put a tambourine that swears so, then it's beautiful there. And everyone who comes to Drnis like that they say there is great, when the lights go away, when those people fall back then the Drnishans stay Sinjans, stay in Vukovar-Srijem County my people and then they wonder where is this Croatia that when the taps you on your shoulders, then the next day you realize that they're just the rest of the blues of their patsy, and you've got nothing. I think we'll always be able to resist it, just.../incomprehensible/... false expectations are made by false promises. So we live in a world where we believe our promises and when we realize that they lied to us, then we know that we too were the ones who were falsely expecting something.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136782	I thank my colleague Panenic. The next replica of a respected colleague, Honored colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136783	Dear colleagues Panenić and you and I come from Slavonia and no one happier than us that actually Project Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem exists and that actually Slavonci and Slavonka can report to some limited competitions, that they get some extra points because we know from Slavonia is moving out. The goal is to remain human and in the area so that someone can raise some production plant and that economic end, too, could develop the economic area. Since the summer of 2016, when we first heard about this project Slavonia, what is the availability of the institutions, what is the availability of transport lines, which are energy prices, is not so much later than after almost 2 years of investment and the government's efforts to actually improve the situation there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136784	Thank you. The answer of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136785	My colleague Chikotić, you've seen the problem well, the problem in fact in the far east, and I believe some other parts are, that's one setback, primarily, the one that's human. We can talk about infrastructure, but we're aware if we're going to drive the Mercedes that then find the means to improve that transport infrastructure to make it easier to get to where that Mercedes is parked. It's a parody to what we actually have. So instead of talking about development with us, it happens that we're discussing whose Mercedes is, under which conditions someone gave it, why we should even discuss it, here's that it's a truck, and then we understand that it brought something in, something he's carried or is doing some economic activity, and this is how we keep asking politicians who are supposed to be the leaders of this country. So we were also questioning that 9.6 million kuna contract that plus VAT that was supposed to be contracted directly. For the sake of the offerer, that was the only perfect one. We always have the best ones. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136786	I thank my colleague Panenić for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136787	Thank you Vice-President Panenic in his debate, you said you believed that this government made the best decisions under the given circumstances. Well, do you really believe that's the case? Do you really believe that hiring a Borg group to create lex Agrokor, and after that giving jobs to those same people who are in the law or business model of that law and then pulling out nice money from Agrokor, that this is a good government decision, did you really think that the government's promise to buy shares from MOL of our INE, and after that does nothing, is a good government decision or good government action? Do you think the decision to buy fighter planes is followed by a series of decisions where we've been blaspheming towards partners in NATO and the Americans are particularly good decisions of the government? Do you think the government's decision not to deal with the health system and the emergency system, and what makes people suffer is a good decision by the government?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136788	I thank my colleague Klisovic. My colleague Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136789	Dear colleague Klisovic, we want to trust the authorities, right? It's natural for the government to do what's best. What you asked about Agrokor, Forten and the prime minister himself thanked Mrs. Dalic, thanked Mr. Ramljak for what they did well in the process of coming from Agrokor to this day that the company survived. But a little bit of that worm doubted me why he replaced them, why she had to leave Martina Daliæ when it was so well done, then I ask you why Mr. Ramljak had to leave, he was one of our better experts so presented to manage such a system. Then it bothers me even more when I see the records, for example. There are now in the municipality of Bilje on the business zone which was to be built by Belje so they are not, but they cannot register a billion kunas there recorded. Then I ask you if we need.../Speakers speak at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136790	I would like to thank my colleague Panenić for his reply, and let us move on to the next debate, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I will talk about the government's dissatisfaction from the perspective of Croatian citizens. So, we are here in the government down here, calling on European institutions, the European Commission, and we have had a story, that the European Commission praises the move of this government, but I prefer the opinion of Croatian citizens than the opinion of the European Commission, and I think we should go down among the people and ask how these people live and that this is the best poll on the work of this government. And go to Ban Jelačić Square, go to your neighborhoods, to your places where you live and ask them a simple question, how people live and you won't get a positive answer. So, I'm going to look back at some of the government's reform moves, and I think it's kind of a scandalous defense of this government, that it's the exit of young people from Croatia, the consequences, the normal, the politics that it's happened in all countries, and that it's something that's normal in Croatia and that these people are going to come back. It should also be said that research shows, therefore, that research into recent demographics, that young people are coming out, not only because of the bad financial situation, but because of the mistrust in the institutions of this country, the mistrust in politics, the mistrust in the judicial system, the lack of confidence in them, that they will be employed without a party card and that these are not normal processes of emigration, that they are not looking for new experiences in other countries, that they are not moving out because they want to meet other cultures, cities, challenges, but simply policy has forced them to do so. So when I meet my former student in the neighborhood, when I ask, where are your friends from the cut, half of them say they're in Germany and Ireland, and they certainly didn't tell me, that they went there to meet Dublin and the cultural sights of Dublin and they got a new experience than simply, the institutions forced them to. As for education reform, also when I meet with my school friends, I must say that they are very unhappy with this reform of education, the school of life, that they spend most of their time in front of the laptop after their working hours collecting badges, that, in these badges, they do not see any sense in this training. It's interesting that so far it's not done, because there's not a single poll among the professors, how they rated this school for life. So we have some PR promotions that they've given her plus 4, but reality shows quite something else, and I think this reform of education that one party so boasts is not on the right track. On the other hand, we have the fact that the government did not answer one big question, which the Most discovered about a month ago, which is a loss of nearly 400 million kuna in the Zagreb budget and that Mr Bandic admitted that loss and blamed the government exactly where he was. So if the City of Zagreb became a heavy Croatian economy instead of a locomotive, and that doesn't concern the diameter, then I think there's a big problem. You should go to Milan Bandic's party and see how the party assesses tax reform, with which the government boasts. And now we have the fact that the party that is part of the government, part of the ruling majority, blames the ruling majority whose share of the loss is in the Zagreb budget. I think that the loss of billions and 400 million kunas should be concerned by every diameter, that it should be manifested and that it is another bad policy of this government. On the third hand, we have the fact that the government has choked on the People's referendum initiative, that it wants to keep its positions, that 400,000 people who have signed the initiative are unhappy, that those who have been on the stands are also unhappy and that this is another feature of this government. So I've focused on those areas that I'm interested in, that I'm talking to people and I really think that we need to get down to the ground, that we need to talk to our citizens, and we need to see how they live and improve this situation, I think we all have an interest in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136792	Thank you, colleague of Sladolev, replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136793	Thank you very much. A colleague of Sladolev, one of the key problems, which is why the executive government, the prime minister of Plenkovic, wants democracy, but in their way, but not the democracy of the people and the will of the people, which she proved in the referendum. And I'm sorry that he missed today, I missed the honor of coming here graver of the referendum of direct democracy, Lovro Kuščević, to finally in front of parliamentary deputies, once again explain where they are,... invalid signatures, and reasons for invalid signatures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you fellow parliamentary deputies from the majority, you've accepted the government's game, to vote not to go to a referendum on amending the electoral law, contrary to the will of 400,000 signatures. Well, he can't be Lovro's god.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136794	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj, the answer of my colleague, Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136795	Thank you. Mr. Bulj, so Mr. Lovro Kuščević won't show up here like he didn't show up at the Department of Management when we were looking for that 40 grand, so-called. The invalid signatures did not appear even when we discussed here for 38 hours the law in which they wanted to raise money for the election campaign, they did, but sent the Queen of Knin Josip Rimac, so he did not appear there, therefore, he does not appear on this for him with unsatisfactory questions, but he sends ordinary women, therefore, to fight, therefore, with parliamentary deputies, it is exactly in accordance with the Istanbul Convention he has propagated.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136796	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136797	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sladolev, not only are teachers and teachers bitter that they have actually become sign collectors in the Lumen programme, but they are simply and incredibly and appalled by the fact that from the following year he enters all schools so-called. The experiment, the school of life, which is conducted experimentally this year, and the state does not give itself, means that if we conduct something experimentally that after we spend a year experimentally, it would be logical to see where the shortcomings are, where the advantages are, that after that, after we actually clean it all up, we enter all Croatian schools. I see now that both teachers and teachers of foreign languages are bitter because on social networks an invitation was extended 3 days before the very meeting that was not published anywhere on the pages of the Education and Education Agency. Simply revolved, they signed 24 hours, 273 of them a letter pointing to a really inappropriate relationship. to the educational. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136798	...respected colleagues. The answer of my colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136799	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, for Minister Divjak I have only one recommendation to apply to the facebook group School Hall and teachers organized and to see there what professors write about Lumen and what they have, therefore, position on this professional training, and the data will be defeated. What I would really like, and I will ask the minister next time, to do an anonymous survey among teachers how they see the reform of education from their own corner and to evaluate it so far because the data are catastrophic, and it is they who are the bearers of that reform and they are placed the highest emphasis and the highest burden on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136800	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. Next replica, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136801	Dear colleague of Sladolev, after 20 years. A new rule has been adopted on the actual system of rewarding teachers, so I'm interested, so it's proposed, but soon it's going to be passed, and I'm interested in what you think about the criteria that are supposed to be there because 5 points are given to someone who's made co-authorship in a textbook for which he's received a fee, so, for his intellectual work and teacher who actually took the kids to an international IT competition, he gets 3 points. I'm interested in how they talk to your colleagues, how they comment on it, and is it more important to them to turn to the system or actually to the teaching and to the children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136802	The answer of my colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136803	Thank you. So, respected fellow Chikotic, when the Reward Regulation was passed, you and I, we held a press conference in which we commended, therefore, in some way to pass that rule, but we expressed the skepticism to, therefore, determine the teacher and teacher who will be, therefore, cash-rewarded by some, therefore, the criterion of excellence. I think that if I came to school at the beginning of the school year and told my students that 5% would be 5, and it was drawn so that I got fired, that in some way there is a limit on excellence, so I don't think that's good, I think the criteria of these points should have come down, so here we have one, so a number that will have to be met, and what if the criteria of excellence in the professor were much higher than they predicted that number.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136804	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. Comrade Curaj has come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136805	Thank you, Vice President, I would like to ask you to take a break on behalf of the HNS Club, namely to consult the club in view of what I've been told here, it's not clear to me now whether we have a debate here, an interpretation of the implementation or not of the reform, is there something I've heard, something that is done and that has results, so maybe it's too fast, right? So, watch out, we're intercessing about not having reform as a major grudge we're doing that something's going too fast, static, I think it's even in these late hours no matter what time it is, that we've certainly been waving, as the people would say, and maybe I won't talk like that, but if we missed out on the topic where there's really something to show for that kind of thinking we've brought in that we're not 25. in school, they did nothing. Let's wait a little longer, let's not do anything, and maybe the problem is that in a year and a half more than the last 25 years, well, well, well, 2.5 billion has been agreed over the last year and a half, whether it's like it or not, whether you like it or not. No need to say, it should be fair and deliberate because someone is not that political agenda interesting and good, so let's just put what's done not good. We're talking about what's not working, and it's not like it's an interpretation, and now we're going to open up what's going on, it's really not clear to me, so I'm asking for a break to consult if I've listed it today already. I've been here since morning, you can't say I'm gone, so at least I don't like the word, so now my time is gone, and [[Agreement: A colleague, a colleague of Maras]] I think I wanted to say mine, and about the billions and everything that's been done in a year and a half and how there's something to say. [[Intruder: Collar & Collapse]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136806	I thank my colleague Curray, I hope your colleagues are somewhere close to having someone to consult with. My colleague Bulj, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136807	Col. Curaj was injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, where he said that he was attacking too quickly the reform or the fast curricula that you are introducing, but that wasn't just Marko Sladolev, or MOST, which is what teachers tell you that you had to do more administrative work than with children, but you don't have any pills you called on, but on four, on four students ic one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136808	Hey, buddy Bulj, buddy Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136809	.../Intruder:... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136810	A colleague of Maras' will you replace me perhaps?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136811	It was my mission, but I didn't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136812	Okay, look, you see with your colleague from SDP, I'd like to ask you nicely don't get into the word of my colleague Buljo. You have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article 239, I give you my warning. Dear colleague of the Ice creams, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136813	... I'm actually not even paying any attention to my argument, so he's looking for a break for something that even... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's about me talking on behalf of the professor, you talking on behalf of the party, so I'm just saying what they're writing to me and what they're writing in their groups, so they're unhappy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you have any information about the professors being satisfied with this curriculative reform? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136814	My friend, thank you for your colleague, Sladolev. Comrade Curaj did not have a replica of your exposure, but had a request for a break. So, on the basis of Article 239, I give you the notice of my colleagues, Sladolev, and I set a break of 22.50 hours. The session was interrupted at 22.35 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 22.50 HOURS]] Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136816	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Government, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So today when we talk about the Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of structural reforms, I liked the discussions of those colleagues who presented the data, even though they were once dissatisfied with the figures they spoke about in addition to those figures when they expressed their views rather than those who only said the flat-rate things were wrong, nothing was done, never worse and so on. In fact, I'd just go over all these numbers for a little while. A sufficient confirmation of the work of this government, structural reforms, implementation of fiscal consolidation, economic policy management, best says that after 7 years of garbage, we have re-enlarged the credit rating and it has become an investment for us. Furthermore, GDP increased by 2.6% in 2018, we have traffic from retail to retail in 2018, which increased by 3.8% compared to 2017 and was then higher compared to the previous one. We in tourist areas are happy to talk about tourist data and figures, so we have a number of overnight stays higher in 2018 by 4%, guest arrival by 7.1%, and 2017 also recorded an increase. Someone looks ironically at you and tells you each of them is recordable, sure it's recordable when every order is marked by an even greater number of arrivals and nights. Exports of goods also increased by 2% in 2018 compared to 2017, 2017 again compared to 2016 and so on, all of these are figures and data that are sufficiently telling how much this government is making efforts and what results it has. However, I would like to discuss a study that no one has talked about today, which is a study by the American Chamber of Commerce. It has more than 230 American, Croatian and other international companies that employ more than 78 thousand people in Croatia. It was often heard today that Croatia does not invest, that entrepreneurs flee, bypass Croatia etc., so it is very interesting that this research is done by the American Chamber of Commerce in 2018. According to the results of the survey, the optimism of the business community in Croatia continues this year. A positive business assessment in the past year gave 72% of respondents. Business expansion has announced 81% of respondents, even new employment plans 75% of respondents. Furthermore, we have numbers, says an increase in the number of employees in 2018, we have 60% of respondents. Today it was often heard, I did not want to replicate because I wanted to bring all this data together in one debate, says the business environment in Croatia is very bad. Here, the holdings in the Republic of Croatia, the business environment is very poorly rated by only 2.56%. 14% of respondents considered the past 5 years to be a deterioration in their operating conditions, which means most of them consider it an average, if not very good and very good. When we talk about the main limiting business factors in 2018, it is interesting to see that more long and complex administrative procedures do not at all consider it a limiting factor. The biggest problem is the lack of adequate labour. When you compare us and today we have heard a lot of comparisons between Croatia and Croatia's business in the region, it can be seen that only 9% of respondents say they are the worst conditions in Croatia, and most think they are as average as in comparable countries. Furthermore, the last data I would talk about, it says, which, among the three problems you would consider to be the biggest deficit, more than 50% of respondents believe that this is a small market for a small number of inhabitants and that is why I cannot invest more and better. And here, an appeal to all colleagues, in a survey mentioned by counterpart Sladolev, says that the main motive for emigration is not economic, but says political elites along with the media send a message that nothing remains valuable in Croatia and saves who can and that is one of the reasons why young people, and even they, have 10% of people who have never even sought employment in the Republic of Croatia, are abandoning it. Well, here's the appeal to all of us, not to tell you, who show everything in black, along with the media, that they don't scare people with such numbers because that's one of the reasons why young people leave us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136817	I thank my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. Replica, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, go ahead
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136818	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you're right, you should speak on the basis of numbers. They say a lot more than the paths of the politicians' empty stories in our assembly. So here, I'm going to take some numbers, numbers, not our analysts, but international analysts based on a series of parameters, tens and hundreds of parameters into account, doing rankings according to individual categories. So here, you see, the Doing Business Board which is very important and everyone in public calls on it, Croatia has, therefore, fallen, from the SDP government to today by 18%, for 18 seats. It's a data that certainly isn't encouraging and does not indicate the good work of this government. In the index of democracy, which is done by the renowned magazine The Economist, the British, for which we all know, Croatia has recently fallen by 9% from the SDP government when we were 51st today to 60th. As far as Justice. [[Agreement: I thank my colleague Klisović.]] Nothing, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136819	Answer, colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136820	Thank you very much. I told my colleague Klisovic that I respected all the debates in which we could hear the figures, although with someone, some I am not happy to hear. However, you cannot dispute that after 7 years for the first time the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia increased from garbage to investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136821	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Jurichev-Martinchev. On behalf of the government Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Tolusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136822	Um, at this time I don't think it's a bad bit of statistics to say. - Mrs. Crescent. Branka Juričev said the data of the American Chamber of Commerce, I'll give you some information from the State Statistics Office. Here, when we talk about macroeconomic developments in 2018 and 2049, positive developments were continued in 2018, in the domestic economy, started in 2016 after 6 consecutive years of economic activity. Real GDP growth in 2018 was 2.6%, came from domestic demand + 3.4%... While domestic, or net foreign demand recorded a negative contribution of 1.2%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The biggest contribution of GDP growth in 2018 came from household consumption, which was actually increased by 3.5%. Of course, since the growth of exports of goods and services, gross fixed capital investments and state spending, the calculation of gross domestic product on the product side shows that it is in real growth... the highest contribution of 2.1% in 2018 to GDP growth in trade, transport and tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2018, there was a real annual growth in traffic in trade at less than 3.8%, in the first two months of 2019 real annual turnover growth in trade was 6.4%. In tourism, as Branka mentioned, the number of tourist arrivals increased by 7.1% in 2018, while the total number of overnight stays increased by 4% compared to the same period of the previous year. In January 2019, the number of arrivals of tourists was reduced by 1%, but we expect it to be higher by the end of the year or at least at the same level as it was this year. Tourism revenues in 2018 amounted to 10.1 billion euros, and recorded a 6.4% increase compared to the previous year. Construction activities increased by 4.9%, the value of the commodity amount increased by 3%, registered annual growth in goods exports by 4%, employment indicated a growth in polling employment of 1.8% compared to last year, the number of pension insurance insurance companies throughout 2018 increased by 2.3% compared to 2017, while in the first two months of 2019 the number of insurance workers increased by 2.2% compared to the same period in 2018. During the year 2018, the average number of HZZ unemployed was 154 000, i.e. a reduction of 20.8% compared to 2017 and in the first two months 2019, the average number of HZZWs was 158,000, i.e. a reduction of 18.4%, respectively, at the annual level. The unemployment rate was 8.4% and decreased by 2.8% compared to 2017. Average gross earnings registered annual nominal growth of 4.9% and real growth of 3.3% in 2018. At the same time, the average net wage records annual nominal growth of 4.3% and real growth of 2.8%. In January 2019, the annual gross earnings growth was 3.7% nominal and 3.5% realistic while the net earnings recorded a nominal growth of 3.4 and a real growth of 3.2%. In 2018, the current account surplus of the balance of payments of 1.4 billion euros, amounting to 2.6% of GDP and total gross foreign debt amounted to 38.8 billion euros at the end of 2018, i.e. 75.4% of GDP and at the international level gross foreign debt recorded a reduction compared to 2017, when it amounted to 40.2 billion euros and 82.1% of GDP respectively, respectively, and is the largest... recorded precisely in the debt of the general government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136823	I would like to thank the vice president, Mr. Tolusic. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of HS, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Frankly speaking, given the composition of this Assembly, the SDP Club composition and the MOST Club, I expected a slightly different debate. There's a lot of people out there who were either ministers or state secretary or assistant ministers, and then it makes sense, if you tell someone that something's wrong, and you took part in it, to say that I think it should be like that, anyway, and people don't have to agree, it's always more ideas... Okay, but if we were already discussing this, we started somewhere at 15 and something else, so we're discussing something less than 8 hours, no concrete idea what the government should possibly do. However, I will start with something else, from which this government has begun, excessive deficit measures, macroeconomic imbalances and state rating loans away from investment. That's what the government inherited. Why do I start with this, because the macroeconomic indicators that measured someone to take these measures are controlled by some independents who have no interest in the word that there is something good in Croatia. And what's the situation today? We have come out of the excessive deficit measure, so the budget has practically fallen balanced if it wasn't a story about the Uljaniks, and I'll have a surplus later on, we've come out of macroeconomic imbalances and what's most important and what everyone will feel, and it's already felt HEEP, which is that the rating agency Croatian rating has raised to investment. Remember what happened a few days after the HABOR credit rating and what happened to HEP's credit rating a week ago. If HEP or other companies in Croatia are state-owned, and those rated by the rating agencies get higher credit rating means they will have a cheaper approach to capital, they will have cheaper capital, and then eventually they would have to feel Croatian citizens at the services that these companies provide them with, because if their capital they create costs their product cheaper this product will be a cheaper, logical thing that Croatian citizens will feel, it is simply a fact. But we here because we don't want to admit things to each other, we're saying some kind of misunderstandings that just don't stand. Standard & Poors had no reason to raise credit ratings to Croatia at some point, but they did. However, what we may have also had to talk about today in 2015, I think the Croatian Government gave 2,150 or so work permits, and now it is estimated that the government will need to give over 64,500 work permits. So we have a real problem on the labour market, a lack of labour force. Let's talk, we're all going to talk to people, let's talk to entrepreneurs, we want to talk to builders here on the continent, ask them if there's a working force, we want to go to sea and talk to the hotelers, we want to talk to the caterers, we might have talked here today, and I think we should reach a consensus because it's simply an over-professional question at this point in Croatia what measures we can offer to those children in 8th grade, how to popularize, how to raise it to become interested in some kind of craftsmanship. If we thought about it and thought about it, then Croatian citizens would experience us differently. Why? Because that's what's holding them back at every turn. And we don't have to be experts in an area, but we can give an idea, those who know more about it will crystallize, give it to a public debate, but look, I think that in Croatia we simply have to think about how in 7th and 8th grade children bring those craftsmanships closer together and how to attract them to enroll those crafts schools so that we have something to lean on tomorrow. And she said that someone who said it today to Mrs. Ramljak, if you were supposed to do it and you weren't, but you could do it, so probably the lady with the minister would discuss some things and maybe some kind of concrete reform vow would be born. However, when I talk about reforms very often these reforms are posthumous. However, in order to implement one reform, a number of circumstances need to be met, especially in Croatia, which has 3 major structural budgetary problems. One is pensions, the other is health care, and the third is positive but not everything depends on the government, depending on many other entities, and these are the European Funds. Because it opens up to Croatia at this time a great opportunity for investment, but frankly speaking I am not as happy as some colleagues here that most EU funds are used to build public buildings. Public facilities are the easiest to make, but it's awfully hard to maintain. When we talk and talk about it today, we should talk about EU funds, but by means that will create new jobs. And that's what we need to have a consensus on, that's what we need to get involved with ideas and do something about, here's a fellow Pranjic mayor, he's going to have a kindergarten without a problem, but 10 jobs only in some local self-government unit and how he needs to be bothered to create conditions for those 10 jobs to open. Reform, here's only one thing I'm going to touch that closest to me, that's tax reform. Therefore, it also shows that the minister has structured it with certain objectives, but clearly at the given moment assessing, assessing what is happening in Croatia, estimated that the price of work and practically tax should be charged, because today, when you look at the lowest wages, they are practically not taxable at all at all at nearly 7.8,000 kuna. But what is very important is that he did two things there, he freed from one 5 billion kunas that Croatian citizens turned into consumption and thus generated the growth of gross domestic product, on the other hand by one quite different criterion of the allocation of units of local self-government, many units of local self-government received far more funds than they had before, and not as a move of the previous government when it can be seen who is what and as a debate when units of local self-government simply took 1.5 billion kuna. And so, we can talk about this tax reform, and we can talk about another thing: colleagues and colleagues, remember when we talked about a VAT reduction here. Then I said let's all debate here, force ourselves to argue that traders have to cut the price, and not we immediately said they won't cut the price, so who are they that won't cut the price. If their state has reduced the VAT rate then they've made extra profits, OK, you're not going to cut the price and tomorrow there's going to be a bigger profit, somewhere that extra profit has to come up. So, colleagues and colleagues, if we might have discussed it this way, we might have come to agree on some things about this interpretation. Because why? Always, any reform can be greater, better and stronger for one who observes it on the side, and for one who implements it is extremely difficult and painful because many of those inside are very much touched, cut off, they think that they are cut off and, most importantly, that reform should ultimately be incorporated into the state budget. That's why I said I was, I'm sorry about the structure and the MOST Club and the SDP Club that we didn't develop such a debate because I just think there's knowledge in both clubs to discuss in this way. It saddens me when we discuss here, we're happy when someone says something's wrong. So here's the story over and over again. If anyone in this House can talk about it, I can. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know why? Because I'm the only Croatian minister who's registered in the World Bank book... the only one for 2007. But how does this image come to be created? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They ask polling questions and ask these questions to all stakeholders of social political economic life in the Republic of Croatia. I had a case for 2005, 2006 that a Varazdin law firm replied that they needed 900 days to obtain a building permit. And you know how the Republic of Croatia was positioned on those scales on the Doing Business Report list to get building permits up somewhere behind God's feet? And when I said that at the government meeting, it wasn't right, it was a little different, so it's not like that. However, when we discuss the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and when international institutions, which oversee it, say that the Republic of Croatia is among the 10 countries that exist, where there is the least danger of money laundering, it is ridicule. So what's good is we're gonna make fun of it, and what's wrong is taking it. Only colleagues and colleagues, all those outsiders who control and blackmail us, and the rating agencies are giving us what They're gonna be our price of capital, and they're really listening to what we're saying, so... [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Shucker]] I won't support this interpretation. [[Intruder: We move on to the next debate...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136825	...respective colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136826	Thank you, Vice-President HS, Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we have already been discussing Malta for not 8 hours and we see that two blocks have been fighting each other, which is what it was, as it is now, many numbers are being taken out, analyzed. I, as an opposition parliamentary representative, will commend the work of everything that is good for this government and all governments so far, so, all governments so far. But let's look at the fact that the Republic of Croatia is now in a state, comparing the Republic of Croatia with competitive states. Let's just take the third quarter of 2018, GDP growth. Poland 5.7, Latvia 5.5, Hungary 5.0, Slovakia 4.5, Romania 4.1, Serbia 3.7 and Croatia 2.8. So why do we have economic growth if we compare with competitive states? Who's to blame? This is all our fault for the systematic failure of reforms, but the reforms in the right word, the 180-degree shift reform. What I said in my initial statement on replica, the first replica of the Deputy Prime Minister, I personally consider reforming all reforms in the Republic of Croatia, public administration reform. And for reforming the public administration doesn't need much money, as for reforms in health, education and all other sectors, but you know you need political determination, you need will and should finally come to a government that will cut down certain jobs that are unnecessary, without any emotion, without any calculation because it's the only way we can survive. No one can make sense to me healthyly, so healthy logically without politics, prove that it is normal to move 65,000 people out of the Republic of Croatia annually, and that the public sector that should be at the service of people is increasing, so that the logic of health cannot be absolutely justified. Di, you have an outflow of residents, that you have emigration, and that the public sector that needs to be served by all residents, economics and entrepreneurs, is growing more and more lush. The Republic of Croatia has not changed the border since 91, and I do not know that it has increased the population to have a legitimate increase in the number of public sector employees. If such a policy continues, the public administration of the Republic of Croatia will have a situation that will take place in 50 years. in the Republic of Croatia will live those people who have party cards of ruling parties no matter what professions they have been and that is reality. 2015 HS adopted a public administration development strategy, 2016. The government adopted an action plan, 2017.The action plan was approved by the European Commission and we were granted 880 million kuna when MOST had the Ministry of Administration. How many 880 million kunas are now realised? Not one percent, literally about 1% is realised and we say that we will achieve economic growth. So how are we going to achieve economic growth when the efficiency of our public administration by world parameters literally in the efficiency of the Venezuelan public administration? How can we even speed up the economy if nothing can be solved without paper in the Republic of Croatia? Other countries have digitized, accelerated. It's like working two buildings and saying that we'll be competitive building on our hands, while another city building with modern technologies. So, you simply need to reform the processes of digitisation, and if you digitise processes as you should, it would be the right reforms, and then you wouldn't, regardless of what you can't already justify increasing public administration because of the reduction of people, let alone when individual processes are digitized. We have a reverse situation. And I'm going to look back on another thesis that's about regional development. We must be aware here at the state budget I was saying that Croatia does not have a policy of its own regional development because it is a disgrace to extract 300 million kuna from the state budget for its own regional development policy. Our regional development policy is based exclusively on EU funds, and we all know that these funds are coming into existence, literally on one example of a small project, a small town that is projected in 2016, reports 2017, with completed situations 2019. You know how many years he moved out of that town? Four generations of people. And we don't have our own money, our own money to make it possible for people to stay in rural areas. Because it is no longer an issue of emigration from Croatia, the problem is the urbanisation of Croatia. The problem is literally that Croatia has come down to the policy seen from these two hills, one Pantovčak, one Mark's square. What happens in rural areas is clearly not visible. Yesterday, I commended the Water Economy Act, which means that no matter what the law, let's say, my law, will lose autonomy in my communal, but it will mean that the water prices will be reduced to the inhabitants. I don't see other similar laws, especially when we're talking about mountainous mountainous areas or assisted areas, these are areas that we're counting 2/3, the areas of Croatia. And I don't see from the point of view of the Ministry of Regional Development, but no other ministries have better, I don't know co-financed rates or tax or profit taxes in these areas. Or why, in particular, should I be plastic, an entrepreneur from around my Split came to Vrgorac because the state provided him with certain benefits. We've had such benefits. And then we had economic growth, and then the businessmen came. By entering the EU, all of these benefits have been lifted and we cannot talk about keeping people in rural areas by system to open a fund I don't know from mountainous mountainous now area 20 million kunas for 83 cities or municipalities where 200, 300 thousand kunas will be co-financed for nogosts for the roads. I have applied for certain projects myself, although only deeply aware that in the restored kindergarten in 10 years if such a policy continues in Vrgorec and similar places there will be no more children, so it will be a question of maintaining all these systems and above all the large systems that are now planned to build and these are agglomerations systems. The question is how will they be maintained, the issue of water supply, the question of the literal functioning of the basic systems needed for life in the rural area of Croatia. And I see there's no radical turn. It's a good thing there's been a billion kuna contest. But here I know specifically some mayors and mayors in the Dalmatian Zagora who simply won't be able to from their financial capacity to hire employees in those kindergartens. So they won't have the opportunity to hire employees in those kindergartens. On the proposal for a state budget, I personally gave up one amendment and you will see that in a few years it will take for this intervention from the state budget to help cities, especially in pre-school education because the pre-school education system is a system of education. So kindergarten is not a childcare area but a systematic, educational system and can't be in different circumstances than urban children. When you look at the prices of kindergartens, you will see that kindergartens in rural areas are much more expensive than in urban areas because normal units of local self-government cannot financially support them as to the part of the compensation paid by parents. I know that fiscal balancing has been assisted by local self-government units, over 2 billion kuna has been aided, the holder of this law has been the Ministry of Finance while a single Ministry of Regional Development, a roof Regional Development Ministry has around its own national 300 million kuna. Therefore, either we want to help this ministry through a system to increase the national amount it has or that ministry should simply end it and attach it to the finance ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136827	I thank my colleague Pranic. Replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136828	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Pranic, I could agree with some of your observations. I'm glad what you mentioned last, I'll start from the end, for fiscal balancing, that's something we've been trying to bring in in the last term of government, but I don't think we made it, but now that I'm talking, I'm thinking about HNS. When you mentioned the state administration reform, I think it's safe that all governments have sworn to it so far, and everyone's been saying that's what it takes in the last 29 years. But I'm sure they wouldn't want anyone to say they're doing it too fast. But what's the point and what's the point is that we can de facto say that we have 30% surplus and 15% lack of employees. And we now have between the two readings of the Law on Civil Servants, which is passed because of the EU Presidency, and there we can certainly already correct and move in these directions that are about to come to a more efficient and better administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136829	Thank you. Dear colleague Pranic, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136830	Comrade Curaj, I know you can't answer now... Injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but let's imagine tomorrow we wake up to 10,000 people working less in public administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What would happen? They wouldn't even feel it in the operating system, they wouldn't feel it. As for the county, I said in one replica you have a system that countys manage health, education, irrigation and waste management. What happens to waste management centers, the biggest problem of the state? What happens to homes of health, the biggest problem of the state? What's going on with school? In 250 schools, it's still heating up with solid fuels. Irrigation, every honor to individual counties that have entered the irrigation models but here in particular in our Dalmatian counties look at how many irrigation systems you have, above all in Split-Dalmatia County from which I come you have Vrgorsko polje, one of the largest fields, you have the Imotsko polje, you have the Sinjsko polje. What about irrigation projects? They're gone. So, what are the counties for when four basic problems cannot be solved?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136831	I thank my colleague Pranic. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136832	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Pranic's, so we presented a st in his debate really quite a number of reasons why you think that there has been and has been a depopulation, in fact, throughout this one area. And I believe you're well-versed in what you're saying and there's a reason for that. On the other hand, we just heard that here on your left is actually a colleague who said that in fact media and criticism are the reasons why people leave Croatia, so do you think that what you have just said, criticism and perhaps what the media is going to convey will be the reason for leaving some new people from Croatia or are there other reasons?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136833	Thank you. Answer, colleague Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136834	So, as for the departure of people from Croatia, you must finally make it clear to Croatia that two moving processes are happening. Okay, it's moving out of Croatia but you have one other process, it's the urbanization of Croatia that a little bit of water is being talked about because every so far the government has been a heavy government that hasn't helped rural areas of Croatia, and eventually we have now had fiscal balance and increase although I recently said in the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area where the SDP government has abolished, and it's basically cut us off for the cumulatives of over 500 million kuna so that this government would return order to the same size, but the question is that this amount should be much higher if you want to make up for everything that's been going on for the past 4 years because we can't now say that the financial situation is good, but when we're growing in economic terms all four last, five years of malts was not just survival, how much money, so much music, that there's more money in the local self-government units in the rural area, I think that the economic climate would be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136835	Thank you, colleague Pranic. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Tomislav Tolusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136836	Mr. Pranic, first of all, thank you for your comments, I think that when we talk about MOST, you're one of the few I can praise, and one of the few that you do specifically, you run a city, you have results with which I think from the level of the ministry can be satisfied, and if your colleagues work much more and much less talk, it would be safe for the party to have better results. We always compare ourselves with Germany, Switzerland, Austria when we like it and then on the other hand, when it suits you, we compare with Romania, Serbia, Kosovo, Macedonia. Germany has a GDP growth of 1.4%. Euro zone 1.8%. Croatia 2.6% and should be bigger and we will do everything to make it bigger but then let's compare, not a lot of Croats went to work on Kosovo, went to that same Germany that has less GDP growth than Croatia, although certainly not for comparison, I agree absolutely. Then let's talk about real data and real comparisons. When we talk about the administration and the Department of Administration, please take back the information that your colleagues from the constituency bench give you the wrong information. I don't know what that MOST did at the Department of Administration so fantastic and so miraculous that you're all... You didn't do anything because you didn't have time to do anything. Not because you didn't want to, you didn't have time to do anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You adopted an act at the government that was prepared before you. When we talk about EU funds and the Ministry of Administration, no summary has been approved by the Ministry of Labour which is responsible for that part of the approval because you have not written, you have not been able to write, you have not applied anything first to the Ministry of Labour and the pension system that you need to approve, you have not arrived to write, you are not telling the truth, you are not saying what is not standing because they are not telling you the right information. Therefore, do not tell the truth. Not in a bad way, but you're misrepresented by the data, and nothing was done by the Ministry of Administration because the minister didn't want what MOST didn't want, but you didn't get there. But again, I'm saying, you haven't even brought in any famous strategy, you've adopted an action plan that was made before you, you've completed it, thank you for that, you've adopted it at the government and point, the money was secured before you in the programme, in particular and cohesion, or in the social fund, or where you haven't invented it, they existed before you. ... And before us, I agree, and before us, because you are during your term of office, we have entered the EU and adopted the Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme and all four other operational programmes. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, you didn't make it up and don't say it like that anymore, not you but generally, 2014, brag about something you don't have anything to brag about. And we should have made bigger steps here, and I absolutely agree with Mr. Pranic that management is certainly a problem which may be one of the biggest problems when we talk about the functioning of the state. The Regional Development Ministry Fund is what it is, could be bigger, could be, what it was huge and don't say you as Vrgorca Mayor that you don't benefit from European funds, that kindergarten needs to be filled in 100 other ways, but the money you got for kindergarten, for road, for agglomeration or some other thing, it needs to be won by Vrgorac, you got the rural development programme, the cohesion fund or some other funds, you wouldn't get it if there weren't any of those funds. Croatia is pulling much more out of the EU than it is paying into the EU budget, and these are the benefits in all of this, that is exactly what it is. Fiscal decentralisation, I would like to see you although I believe you are a sacred example but also all the other mayors and mayors in Croatia where they spent these 2 billion kunas. Some municipalities and cities have 100% higher original incomes, where did they spend money? Some on the payroll, some on associations, some on other events, should have invested them in the infrastructure in demography and for 100 other things that could surely have been more useful and cleverly spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136837	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Government. We have a breach of our rules of procedure, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136838	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Rules of Procedure 238 was injured where the minister said MOST had done nothing. So I would just say in this part that, you ministers and your government did everything, you handed INA over to Hungary's hands and you said you didn't, you moved 2/3 of Croatia, you moved on, you just withdrew 17% of the funds from the EU funds, and we were at the bottom of the EU after the withdrawal of EU cohesion funds. The Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia... [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Bulj.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136839	My friend Bulj, thank you. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have again misused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article 240(2), I take away your word until the end of this debate. ... We have another violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Panenic, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136840	Thank you very much, Vice President. The minister injured Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 2, 3, 8, when he said these funds were actually coming from the EU, until now, all the prime minister and ministers are saying that this HDZ has secured. And now I'm actually hearing it for the first time, and I don't think that would be true and that they're saying that it's actually an SDP that ultimately secured it. So there's something wrong with me in these words that the minister said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136841	Thanks to a respected colleague, Panenic, you have also abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure under Article 239 consciously entered into this, I give you a reminder. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136842	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, listening to the explanations of the government's representative, Deputy Prime Minister Tolusic, who was centered here and as if the prime minister had kept him for several months and spared him from his activities, and now he has a sudden attack of energy to explain some things to us in the small hours of the night. I heard one piece of information that is quite amazing to me, says Vice President Tolusic, Croatia's GDP growth is 2.6% and Germany 1.8%. And that's where Vice President Tolusic pushes us in front of Germany. And now those who now look at us and listen to us at home, probably not too many, could misread this fact to conclude that Croatia is actually better than Germany and that this government better Plenkovic works both from Ms Angela Merkel and that in fact all those who go to Germany are mistaken. So why do these people go to Germany when Croatia actually works better and they just need to play Mr. Tolusic's speech from just before about the buses from Zagreb to Bregana and they will all return. Only those five minutes should be allowed for Mr. Tolusic to tell these few facts, people will jump out of the windows themselves, they won't, they won't need the conductor or the door to open, they'll probably get people out. But to do a little bit of concrete data and see how weak and no growth is and how far behind we are in Germany, all we have to do is compare GDP per capita in Germany and Croatia, and that's the difference between $44,000 and $13,000, which means 4x less. With this intensity that Mr Tolusic told us, Croatia will probably arrive in 200 years. So if we continued to grow 1% more than Germany for the next 200 years, Germany would arrive at their current level. So if this is the perspective of Mr Tolusic offering Croatian citizens 200 years to wait to live as the Germans live today, so get out of the government immediately, you don't deserve to sit there at all. Croatia should grow by percentages, 4.5%, so we are at a very low level of development. And we have to have faster growth not once than three or four times than Germany has to catch that train eventually. On the other hand, I don't know, you're probably an agronomist because you're a minister of agriculture but it's not hard to educate and look at data and make, an economist and then I'm a little worried, I hope it's not some Banja Luka college or something. But on that side, I'd say it's weird that you're dealing with that data this way and you're not aware of what you're saying. You're sending a message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that it will take 200 years to wait to catch Germany, and in this way, you're sending a message basically that the government is not working well enough and that it is not working the way it should work. And what is also important and what should be pointed out is that as far as European funds are concerned and everything Croatia is using at this time, that we are still in the thick minus. So, as for the withdrawal of money and the payment of Croatia, it may be a plus, but when you look at what we pay with that money that we are withdrawing from the EU, how much we pay for imports to the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is still a fat EU subsidy and it is the biggest tragedy that is happening to us at the moment. If we want to move forward, we need to be much more efficient, much more energetic, and we need to do certain things that our citizens would feel on their skin tomorrow. And I'm not just talking about kindergartens because I see kindergartens are the main thing now. I'm talking about projects that will start the industry, that will start innovation. The Republic of Croatia has less innovation in one year than an average EU-level corporation. We do. three times less innovation than what [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] There's a Nestle. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Maras]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136843	I would ask you nicely if in your discussions you did not demean anyone, or any invitation, or agronomies, and whether someone is an agronomist or an economist or anything else, does not mean that they are not doing their job well because you were not an entrepreneur either, so you did a good job as a entrepreneurship minister. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136844	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Government with state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, so in the country of parliamentary democracy each party or individual goes with their programme to the elections and are actually voters who give or deny trust. When that trust comes to pass, the government of those 4 years. And in fact, you should implement that program that he promised to his voters. Unfortunately, this often doesn't happen, and then these same voters send that party or that government into opposition to clear their policies, actually do what they promised, and they didn't do it. That's how it actually happened with the SDP and their coalition partners because they made a lot of promises, didn't execute them, and then these voters punished them and sent them into opposition to consolidate the party and, at that time, exploited in opposition for their recognizability for the better quality of citizens. So instead of doing the right programs, they propose the right laws, what they will be recognizable by their constituents, they deal with impeletions. I don't even know what kind of interpretation this is, certainly some fifth or sixth, but in any case you'll be remembered as an interpellation opposition. Today we are discussing the Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement professional reforms and according to what we have heard today and in fact talked about, you 10% of those MPs who signed this request for interpretation are actually saying that nothing according to pension reform, according to tax reform, that public debt has increased by 3.7% and that at the level of 300 billion kuna, that GDP growth has been reduced and so on, which would mean that this paper and this interpretation... So, totally worthless since a lot of things happened in the meantime. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You further say that the government needs to be forced to implement these reforms without being able to do so through an action plan and that you are not in favour of accepting these action plans, but that a national council should be established through parliamentary supervision which should be drawn up by the professional public, academic public, employers, trade unions and media representatives who would actually control the national programme of the convergence reform. Now, if you had carefully followed the government's annual report since October 2018, there was actually a reading of everything that Mr. Plenkovic's Prime Minister was talking about at this High House for almost half an hour, touching in fact all the segments of this society, which were actually spoken of by my colleagues, and I don't want to repeat myself much in this debate. What may have prompted me to discuss my colleague Pranjic who was actually metaphorically trying to say this side to the left or this right side is actually saying something, but they're not doing anything, it would look like Israel, there Egypt, and inside is Gaza, the area of Gaza or Palestine where you're actually like MOST. And when you talk about the work of the public, the reform of the public administration of my colleague Pranic, I would like to say that you presented concrete things that could be done in terms of public administration. I'll tell you, your Minister and Minister of the Most when she was, we were supposed to build a single compensation centre and we got funding from the World Bank, no less, no more than 70 million. At that time, the minister bought some EUR 5 or 6 million computers and computer equipment, and I think it is still today at the Ministry of Administration, today at Mr Kuščević's. So, we didn't move around about it at all. Since you're coming from the local administration and the area, we're through this unique compensation centre, it's very well imagined, it's started, I have to say, from the SDP, it's an excellent proposal that in fact every citizen through that OIB can control every citizen by getting compensation on any basis, therefore, from the level of the municipality, from the level of the county, from the level of state, from schools, from scholarships, from social grants and anything like that, which is an excellently imagined project. He was supposed to be such a realist through state administration offices, that's what you touched. That's when your minister partly concluded that these people aren't qualified to do it at all because they don't even have that basic computer training. I'm telling you this for reasons where you're saying that you could reduce 10,000 or 15,000 people from public administration, that it's not so easy to do overnight because you're a witness too that many people, even in our rural areas that work in FINA, in health homes, are still doing certain things today, and it's hard to adapt them. But what do you do with them when they are 63, 62 or more years old today until they retire? So it's not simple. On the other hand, you and I know very well, and here all of our colleagues in HS, so if you were to compare the Office of the State Administration for the Economy of the Split-Dalmatia County and the Management Department for Economy in the Split-Dalmatia County and I don't know how many people would actually know what the obligations and tasks of the Office of the State Administration of the Economy are, which are the tasks and tasks of the Management Department, therefore, the logic itself requires that one or the other must be abolished because they are parallelisms. So, by abolishing the Office of State Administration and attaching it to the county, we would have had a more efficient and expedient county. The truth is there are colleagues here attacking a lot more county than the Offices of State Administration. In the Office of State Administration, for example in Split, you have 409 employees, and in the county you have about 189. So it's a big, big, but it's a huge number, so either to end one or to cancel another, it was the first step, the second step was agencies that were unnecessary by reducing the ministries, one of the more effective public administrations, so that's about what you're saying. As far as certain indicators of macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia are concerned, I'll only touch two of them because of the time I'm running out of. So, my colleague Schuker was talking about a tax reform that was really well-designed, it must have been analytically well done back then from the Ministry of Finance, it went into three circles, he was talking about the funds that were actually saved, or were released from both citizens and entrepreneurs. I'll just tell you, let's say, the entry into force of 1.1.2019, therefore, only by reducing VAT from 25% to 13% and the consumer basket that was tied to fresh and frozen meat, fruits, vegetables, diapers, and in part 5% of VAT on medicines is certainly a significant savings to citizens. We were saying then that it is possible that certain food chains or trade chains would not lower their prices, which was heard and suggested by the SDP who said that, as Mr. Grbin and statistical indicators show for the month March actually that food and these products did not cost. I don't know how relevant that is since 1.1.2019. in those 60 days we'll see it, but we'll actually see the final results and the state certainly has regulatory mechanisms to, I won't say, force, but control that part, where the state gave up VAT for the benefit of citizens, and now we should actually make those traders or similar organizations actually make extra profits... So on tax reform, the European Commission's report says significant progress has been made in strengthening the fiscal framework. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Peace reforms have touched many, I will not do much, the European Commission's report also says significant progress has been made. But let's forget, let's say, a set of the Agriculture Act, a law on agricultural land that's extremely good, the OPGs, and then a law on the ban on unfair commercial practice that we talked about here in HS, a food supply chain, which is extremely important reform laws, and I'm not talking about performances. So, in these executions with some 325 000 citizens who were in the blockade because of 43 billion kuna, we reduced to 274,000 and 19 billion kuna in one move, we unblocked 6248 citizens. And in the end, it's no less important, this government has shown sensitivity to people with disabilities, personal assistances almost 15,000 and increasing personal disability and allowances and assistance for care [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Babic]] 20 percent. [[Agreement: On behalf of the Proposer...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136845	...respective colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope you still have a few lines preserved. So, in relation to the exposure of fellow Babic, who called us an interpellation position, if I interpreted it well, I must say that you are absolutely right. That is, the opposition's task to question the government's work, determine or criticise political responsibility, determines, then most of it probably refuses, but the debate is useful. Well, why did that come to this meeting? Just because we insisted on changing only one business provision, which is that we can put such a point in the signatures to debate because we'd rather have an impelation, then that attitude would be acidified in the agenda, and now we've taken advantage of that business opportunity, so, well, that. Now, as far as the interpretations are concerned, I'm encouraged by your exposure to number five. So it was the first to renationalise INA and sell 25% of HEP shares. So we were worried about it, is it done, isn't it? So that interpretation was completely justified, something big came out, and then it didn't happen. The second interpretation was, in a chronological way, due to the government's behaviour in the ratification of the Convention on Family Violence, the popular Istanbul Convention. Is this convention ratified? Is and then that interpretation was withdrawn. The third interpretation was due, in our opinion, to the frequent abuse of "For Home Ready", we discussed it. Do we have any more problems with that? We've got, uh, he's about to adopt HS, she's adopted the Koruska Archdiocese, and so here we are, that interpretation was subsequently adopted in Austria, but basically she is. The fourth interpretation was about the purchase of F-16. Did they come in? No, according to this HS has even reached a conclusion, most have concluded that it was phenomenally done, but I noticed, I do not know that you, that since that debate Minister Krsticevic somehow stopped appearing in public, landed, let's say. And this is the fifth interpretation, so you can see that we have very restrictively used this right for only these most sound events, because this interpretation has been driven by the European Commission's 2018 report for 2017. Now, if the 2018 Commission report is similar in 2019, expect another interpretation. If it's not, if it's not, if it's better, then we expect you to be advertising it somehow. So what you said is a perfectly logical parliamentary thinking, and in that sense we are on the verge of modern European opposition. But you said one more thing, which is that the party goes to elections, that the program, comes to power after, and what is the program of this government? HDZ or HNS? What citizens voted for this government, HDZ and HNS and the SDSS to be in power? I'm sure he doesn't have one. So, let's say I imagine the situation, election campaign in the 2nd election unit, vice president at 14th place, Mr. Hasanbegovic at the top and I am quite sure that Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic came to the pre-election club HDZ and said the following, vote for HDZ to be in opposition, and Milorad Pupovac, Milanka Opačić and Ivan Vrdoljak in power. If that happened, here, certainly there was no such thing as a rally, Mr. Vice President, therefore, that kind of political responsibility, the opposition, there is, but a government, to the citizens at this point, there is no such citizens who voted for this government. I thank you for five minutes, the last ferry to Brač goes, and I'm going to the scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136847	I thank my colleague, Bauk. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136848	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. We are talking about the successes, i.e. the failures of the government of Andrej Plenkovic. I have already listed on behalf of the club a whole series of areas, which are ruined in Croatia, and now I can, for example, move to entrepreneurship, which simply cannot live in Croatia to the fullest extent. We see that citizens are more inclined to invest in savings, which often carries less income than the rate of inflation, but they prefer it than simply risk it in a country where everything is uncertain. Eventually they'll buy real estate and that's it, but in entrepreneurial waters they'll go very rarely. And the evidence raises the question, who wants to be an entrepreneur in the country at all, where it is costing him endless bureaucracy, where he has to pay crazy taxes, excise taxes and compensations of up to even 80% of his income, which means he doesn't actually have anything left. Here, sometimes, to a farmer, in the Middle Ages, the rest of his income, he had to give a bearer, and today he remains a citizen, and he goes to a good country. Who wants to work in the country, where is the chief state inspector checked out by Mr. Brkic and Bandic, notoral cousin Andrija Mikulić? What fool would invest a million kunas in business in Croatia, give all of her family's savings and basically throw her into the sea with sharks, give that money and never see it again, and God forbid she can make a profit from it? When we talk further about the economy, we have a case in 2.5 years of this government, that some three tax reforms are announced, three circles, so it's said, we'll probably go to nine circles of hell with those reforms. So let's just say, in the last of that reform, it was mentioned that since 1.1 food prices are going to be lower, I don't see those prices below, maybe you see them, so tell me what are the food prices lower? So it was also said that each family would receive 960 kn per year, and we see that only at the disposal of waste, each family loses an additional 1200 kn in 2019, not to mention all the other gatherings of directors and lives in daily life. Public procurement, as well as not to mention, I'll mention that eventually when this drug story, about health care, is not going too wide, but just one example. For example, we have an ultrasound probe, the KBC pays 20,000 euros, and the same probe on e-bay where it's supplied by all the other hospitals in the world costs 2,000 euros. So we pay 10 times more expensive expendable material than we pay in the United States, for example, in other rich countries. We have 350 million kuna to pay for one single rotor. Watch out, rotor, so tell me Mr. Tolusic, is it a sapphire rotor, of rubies, of diamonds, of which the rotor is 350 million kuna. I, with 350 million kunas, take this building of Parliament down 10 times and build it from the beginning. What are you talking about, what 350 million, where does that go in whose pockets? We've got a wire that costs $550 million. Watch out for the wire, you've got buildings. Zagreb has the most expensive cable in the world. Well, we have money, people of God, so we can, I don't know, heat up the money and warm up on them how much money we have. And I'm asking you a question now, that's funny to you, why your Prime Minister is surrounded by people like Bandic, like Satsuha, like Glavas. You have heard of the people with whom you are. So when you were young, did your mom get you into a chili, don't get your son into bad company? And that's exactly what you brought with you, surrounded, so who's to trust you at all? How can you promote Andrija Mikulić and Bozidar Kalmet in your party? This is now your new party secretary, Gordan Jandrokovic's right-hand man, who shares the money in white bags in shopping malls. That's the person you're promoting. So says the indictment, I read those charges if you don't read, follow those trials. Funny and then you wonder that 90% of Croatian citizens don't trust this HS, they don't see it now, they don't trust the judiciary, they don't trust the political parties. Who's responsible if not for the government that's in power? Also, there is no Minister Pavic anymore, and there is his secretary, Mrs. Pavic. Buric, missy doesn't know either, like they were talking about some kind of pension reform. And what did we get from that pension reform? Watch out, you reform that reduces pension and pay ratios and it's shown by success, reduces the ratio and says, "Here you have a decent life now, it's a reform, now we've succeeded." It's a code I give you now 100,00 kn and you give me back 90 and I say I'm winning. So it's simple, in general, I don't know how to comment more, it's so transparent that it's called growth, it's called dignity. It's you, tell it to your minister, ma'am. Buric, in fact legalized euthanasia, it is the success of your government, and you have not returned any dignity to the pensioners, you have made it even less possible for them to have a normal civic standard. The further success of this government is that everything that is Croatian is denied, everything that is Croatian, is thrown into the trash. We've sold water sources for concessions of 3 liters per litre, watch out, 3 liters per litre we give concessions to foreigners for water. Since 2020, we've given agricultural land to foreigners, we've given them INA, we've given them T-com, we've given them Agrokor, we've given them a complete pharmaceutical industry, there's not one single pharmaceutical company or Veledrogeny owned by the Republic of Croatia. We destroyed the Immunological Institute, we destroyed or we destroy all the shipyards. Do you know, Mr. Tolusic, you and your ministers, that Brodosplit has been paid 1.5 billion state subsidies that have been spent on purpose? Mr. Pernar was tried and convicted for damages of 1,000,00 kn, express, and someone who shoots 1.5 billion kuna, you still want to give him another shipyard. You give up the Croatian Kuna, you see people on Croatian Kuna, Jelačić, Mažuranić, Ante Starčević, you will throw it in the trash, what will it do to you, so you have yours, you will have Junkera, Tajania, Merkelica, it will be the new Croatian kuna. We kiss the laps and soles of the Brussels clowns and the impaled bankers instead of respecting the values on which we built our country in 1400. Unfortunately, this government has issued all the ideals that the Croatian state has created. She opened up a vampered caste that grabs everything she can until eventually she swallows herself and then builds monuments and gives names to the streets of the people who robbed the Republic of Croatia. Here, I will give you a proposal for a new monument, make one monument of bureaucrat, let it be called the ear of kleptomanianović and the Croatian beggar, and as that ear pulls out of his pocket and his last kuna, pour it in bronze in 1,000 copies and place it in all the empty Croatian villages of Dalmatia, Slavonia and Lici That it may be a monument of yours [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Governments in the 21st century [[Intruder: colleague of Bunjac]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Moving to...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136849	...replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136850	Dear Representative Bunjac, it is really funny or sad to see the government boasting by increasing pensions from several kunas, while at the same time denying or not stressing, shouting at all that they have raised the prices of water, electricity and gas and heating, means, heat and that they will, in fact, produce these pensioners a lot more through the directors than they have given them through the tobacco raises and the life standard of pensioners is getting worse and worse, people can't live from retirement, and the government is trying to serve the story of allowing pensioners 4 hours of work with pension. Why? They claim as Gods to help them if they want to work, but the real truth is that retirement can't live and that pensioners don't really have a choice. It's working so they don't dig through the trash. [[I thank my colleague Pernar.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136851	Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136852	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. Well, often when we come to the store, I watch the Croatian pensioners buy what they buy. They buy one thing, maybe two things. And you know what they pay with? They pay with those 5 and 10 lipes, there's a purse and there's 5 and 10 limes in there, they're flat, and they pay with it, they pay with it, it's him, he collects it carefully, and then he goes in and buys one thing, like a pate or a kilo of bananas. And then says our government pensioners live with dignity. I am sure that even the parents of government members do not live with dignity, let alone some people who do not have such a prominent offspring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136853	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague, Bunjc. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136854	The Honorable chairman cannot look back on the country's current situation without referring to the time scale and the president of the Croatian Democratic Union, Dr Ivo Sanader. The more I personally was a member of the Croatian Democratic Union. And at the time Sanader was president, however, HDZ was in opposition. What happened, six months after I entered HDZ I came to Gunduliceva, then HDZ came to power and said I would have written out of the party, asked me why, and I say, because everything I believed that HDZ would do, that guarantee card of the HDZ Sanaders and under the influence of the media, I really believed that he would do it, I realized, that it was a lie and would want to be printed and there was my picturesquely said career in HDZ ended. But at that point, I may have seemed crazy, and Sanader seemed like a smart man. However, the wheel of history turned in such a direction that it was mentioned earlier in prison, and I today in the Croatian Parliament. And that is why I wanted to read to you a part of Psalm 118 that says, “They have surrounded me, ” they say,“ in the name of the Lord I am destroying them, they have surrounded me like bees, ” they say, “they have pushed me, they have pushed me to bring me down, but the Lord has helped me. My strength and my song is the Lord, he is my savior." And why am I telling you this? Because if I were in trouble, I'd always turn to the creator, the all-earth, and Ivo Sanader, instead of turning to the true and living God, he'd turn to his associates in HDZ because this is that these people love him and that these people are his friends. But what hurts me the most today is the following, they laugh that their former president is in prison today and not only laugh, but they say Ivo Sanader is a criminal, and we're all honest. That's the story HDZ has today. So they're saying, HDZ is a prominent party, HDZ is basically a fair party, but Ivo Sanader, you're a criminal. And I'm wondering, how can Ivo Sanader, how can he calmly see that those people with whom he stole together in my court now take the highest positions of government both in the state and in the party, while at the same time he's in prison? Mr. Sanader, I urge you to stop talking, to finally talk about these black funds and not to let your party ha, may I call them friends, perhaps better enemies, push you, literally, down the stairs. I believe that you have been wronged twice, on the one hand it has been done to you in a way that you are condemned and in prison, and those who have been riched together through membership in your party, they are still at large and enjoying all that wealth. So, Mr. Sanader, how long will you protect them and cover them? How long will you be silent about all the dark works of HDZ? Mr. Sanader, I believe that you, if you don't already care about the truth, care about justice at least. Well, then tell the truth, and be a penitent, and be you who will testify against other members of the HDZ, not that they testify against you. When this government was inaugural Plenkovic, I said, then historical words, I said it wasn't Ivo Sanader the only one who stole in HDZ. But what happens now is he's the only one who stole. And they even say about Mr. Calemta there's no verdict. Well, there's no verdict, but the indictment is very serious, like, burdening him with heavy stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136855	Dear colleague Pernar, here's a full five minutes I've let you speak, although you're not talking about the subject of the agenda. I warn you to get back on the subject, which is the subject of debate and not to talk about any other matters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136856	Dear Chairman, I wanted to tell you that this world is fleeting, our lives are fleeting and our parliamentary mandate is fleeting and this is essentially transitory. And in that race for passing things, we left out the eternal, or the most important thing. And I'd just like to say that, uh, friends of Eve Sanader, they're not his real friends.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136857	Dear colleague Pernar, on the basis of Article 239, I give you a warning because you are not sticking to the subject. I ask you nicely, to return to the subject, which is the subject of this debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136858	I'd like to say that this government is leading the country to ruin and you all know it. You see that by demographics, that in the last 150 years, there have not been so few children born. That's what you can see from the fact that industrial production is falling. You see that by already shutting down the refinery, and now you're shutting down the shipyards. That's what you see by people moving out of the country every day. You see this also by what the judiciary continues to protect and cover and actually the state today uses the judicial system, i.e., I would say this, that in my court, HDZ today uses the judicial system to deal with the internal opposition and for this reason Sanader is pushed down the stairs, and Mr Kalmeta is raised in the party hierarchy, and will be later in the state. And I want to say that the kind of leadership that HDZ is now leading is trying to blame all the troubles of putting on one man, that unfortunate, and thanks to that same man, they are all, where they are, many were his ministers, I find it hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136859	Dear colleague Pernar, do not stick to the subject again, based on Article 240(2), I take away your word until the end of this debate. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136860	Mr. Brkic, I won't sit down, I'll keep talking and you won't shut me up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136861	On the basis of Article 241 I would ask you nicely, giving you a reminder of a distance from the session, until the end of this debate Thank you very much. [[Intruder Pernar: Mr. Brkic I do not accept your pedagogical measure, because I believe I have my 10 minutes to speak.]] I'm setting a break by 12:30. [[Intruder Pernar: And I do not intend to give up on it, so I was elected to Parliament.]] It's 10:00, 16 o'clock. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would ask you kindly to take your seats to continue the work of the plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 12:32 A.M.]] We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136863	Thank you very much, Mr. Baker, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you cowardly sent a guard to throw the representatives of the Living Wall out of the assembly, and the second time you want to, Mr. Baker, you can do it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136864	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Based on Article 239, I give you a warning. Do you have a replica of your colleague Bunjac?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136865	I'll tell the replica to whom, is St. Peter a smart-ass?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136866	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. I give you a reminder based on Article 240 to the end of this item of the agenda. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136867	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of the research conducted every year by Transparency Internacional, Croatia achieved a 48-point score by the corruption perception index in 2018, which is significantly lower than the average of Western Europe and the EU, which is 66 and shows that corruption in the public sector in Croatia is considered a widespread phenomenon. This continued the negative trend of Croatia compared to 2017 and 2016. I would point out that non-transparent appointments and decision-making procedures and insufficient readiness to resolve corruption or suspicions of corruption contribute to the collapse of trust in the work of the Government. Why am I saying this? Because it is a healthy environment and some sense of a healthy climate that exists in the society of conjecture and mother, I will say so, all reform processes, if the reform processes, and especially those structural or structural ones, are seen as very precisely designed strategic steps by the Government that should contribute to the improvement in certain areas, and then to the better lives of citizens in certain social areas. Today, I won't be too long on this subject, I don't think it's time or time, it's a safe place, but a powerful verdict says a lot about what kind of environment we live in in Croatia today and how difficult it is actually to carry out reform processes. Another prerequisite to be able to talk about economic and other growth in Croatia is education reform. I've been repeating it here for two years, I don't often feel like a parrot, I often feel like someone who talks like that in the wind and like I'm talking about some abstract thing that's kind of untouchable, untouchable, and that might be less important to the everyday lives of citizens. I know that when we talk about the quality of life that it is primarily important for citizens to survive the day, how to survive the month, how to survive the year, how to ensure for themselves, how to buy their families some decent life, how to buy bread, milk, settle directors, manage to make some kind of sustainable budget so that they can provide some kind of means of transportation, some kind of real estate or roof over the head and provide children with education. However, let us not forget that everything comes from education and that many things in life depend on quality, quality of education. I will just mention a few items from the National Plan for the reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2018, and then I could look into why I think and why we believe in the SDP that we need to discuss this interpretation today and what the gaps we have made, where the space to speed up the whole, the whole process. The government thus states in its National Reform Plan that it is crucial to call it the same interests, the second establishment of a sustainable network of schools and programmes, with only one smaller part of what the vice-president of the government spoke about, and this is a network of regional centres of competence, this does not mean a complete network of schools and programmes, which is said to be in line with the need of the economy and labour markets, and then says that they are key to the development of the economy and new jobs, raising the quality of vocational education, the adoption of entrepreneurial competences, the promotion of entrepreneurial culture in society, the development of a positive relationship with lifelong learning in entrepreneurship, that it is important to invest in adult education and lifelong learning, so that in 2018, the new Law on adult education, the promotion of quality of education, and the implementation of the quality of the new quality of education programmes, and education of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the quality of the reform, through the new legislation. Through this particular emphasis, of course, and the unforgivable improvement of teachers and teachers. Now, in order for me not to turn out to be someone who looks at such a party, politically, I will highlight only a few references to the, in my 2018 report to the following, and we can make a nice parallel between this national government reform plan 2018 for education and here, the Ombudsman in her report for 2017 says, warns, that the Ministry of Science and Education, warns that the Ministry of Science and Education should implement a full curricula reform in line with the education, science and technology strategy. It points out that during 2018, planned reforms were carried out only partially and contrary to the strategy, i.e. the reverse sequence. What does that mean specifically? Despite the fact that 2016 was made, the Ministry of Science and Education has never adopted a roof document of full curricular reform, and this is the framework of a national curricula which is the basis for completing other documents of full curricular reform. These are, of course, national, inter-entities and the curricula in question. In 2018, a large part of the curricula in question has been created, although inherited, since the former configuration, but without the roof document. In this way, the whole process of full curricula reform is set in reverse and is partially viewed through the implementation of the School of Life project, which began with insufficient teacher education. Furthermore, the Ombudsman warns that an action plan for the implementation of the education and technology strategy has never been adopted. He's in 2017, I'll remind you, completely butchered, completely. Some of the objectives of the education, science and technology strategy were changed, when this met with public resistance, and even some of our parliamentary representatives, the official action plan was never adopted. The Ombudsman also says that no recommendation has been adopted by the Ombudsman on the introduction of civic education in primary and secondary schools, which promotes the principle of protection of human rights and the prevention of discrimination and that only the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Science and Education has not received any reports of the recommendations implemented for 2017 and that the Ministry of Science and Education is one of the ministries, and rarely, so there are no such many ministries, where they must send frequent rushes. Well, you see, if he's lying to a goat, he's not lying to a horn. Why did I read these clips from the Attorney General's report? Because I agree with most of them. Not emotionally, but objectively. And I am sorry that very often it can be assumed that the reform of education in this establishment of the ministry is seen as some kind of tabletisation of Croatia, and not unfortunately a systematic, serious concept already well-established. What we can unfortunately expect from the government's reform moves is, I guess, what's been published in the morning list, that Croatia's pillation is also giving up. Or that you are not able to do it until the end as you have imagined, so you will now reform the original plan for Croatia’s pillisation where every child covered by full curriculative reform will be in all schools next year, students of the 1st, 5th and 7th grade of primary school and the 1st grade of secondary school. You promised them that with new curricula, you'd give every child pills. Now you change that, if it's true, and it's supposed to be, what the Morning List wrote a few days ago, so it's not going to get every child but every 4th child. You are only in favour of this and what the EU Commission warned you about, and a survey on young people in Croatia presented some month ago in the Journalist House, which is that young people are increasingly feeling, but that this is not only their subjective feeling, but indeed the objective reality of Croatia, that unfortunately in the last few years inequality in education and the educational process is growing, rather than reducing it. Because most of those funds that we are withdrawing from the EU are intended for exactly vocational education, in order to better connect the labour market with education, lifelong learning, but also this very important, not only Europe but every normal democratic world, which should be, and this is the same chance for all corrected inequalities. If we know that all children unfortunately don't enter the system from equal positions, some come from poorer families, like these, we're the ones who have to provide [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136868	My dear colleague. We have a replica. Dear colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136869	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning of the debate, you immediately mentioned that, in fact, the corruption perception index in Croatia was for the past year, or the report from this year, it shows that perception is such that no effective measures are being carried out nor corruption or prevention is being detected. It's not just research that doesn't work for us. It is also the index of the degree of democracy that also does not contribute to the Republic of Croatia because it has just pointed out that there has been a decline, that there has been a fact that there are also freedoms of the media and that they are journalists who are at risk. It's the same way we can say perception. that is, the national index of happiness that does not go into service. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague, Alfirev.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136870	Answer, colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136871	You're right, colleague Alfirev. But what to say about the country I also think about that perception of corruption in which, I don't know, one professor Đikić, Bahtijarević, Paladino, for them there is no place in Croatia, they were given that kick card, but for the brother of Minister Obuljen, the brother-in-law prime minister has room, for Bandić there is an honorary doctorate, and it is obviously bought for you, I school for your building, for your academy, for your university, you honor me doctorate. I am ashamed, ashamed of the system of values we live in, and I think that young people are not only ashamed, but also afraid of it and leaving Croatia, that's the problem, in the system of values.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136872	I thank my colleague Voter for his reply. A fellow Stazic is not present. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I am sorry that at this point there is not a single minister, a member of the government in the assembly, that says enough about how responsible people are doing their job the prime minister has ignored the whole day's debate, and the ministers obviously can't take more than an hour, two to sit here. And as they do today, so do these 2.5 years and as they do these 2.5 years, we see that 300,000 people have moved out of Croatia in that period, that citizens have perceptions of over 70% that the government is doing its job badly, that they are not implementing reforms, and then they don't need to be asked at all, that someone mentioned today why you've put up with the interpretation, it's pointless, you're just taking certain remarks like counterpart Bauk said, everyone has been justified but we have to do it, 75% of the citizens don't see this government as a government that is able to implement reforms and lead Croatia in a positive direction. So Prime Minister Plenkovic is committed exclusively to closing the affairs that are opening up after each other, there are almost no ministers who are not involved in any of the affairs of Mrs Plenkovic. Grief, Mercedes to Mr. Maric, who was on the shoulders of Mr. Jolly to Mr. Tolusic, Mr. Krsticevic, Majde Buric to Mrs. Buric. No, no, no, no, sorry, it's a little late, what's the foreign minister's name? ... Pejcinović Buric, I said well, yes......... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It's not Majda. It's Maria. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yes, unfortunately, ma'am. is so present in our policy that sometimes in the late hours like this and you forget what it's called, it thinks more about how it will become the Secretary General of the Council of Europe than how our foreign policy is being led. So the fact is that a whole series of ministers are burdened with affairs and that people have no sense of responsibility at all and we know that it's always so much talk about it, this government is the worst government means for every government so far, it's been said in the mandate that the worst government, but this government really, when you look at the amount of scandal, it's not working, the failure of certain results is definitely the worst government that Croatia has had since the beginning of independence to this day. So neither the results in the demographic sphere, 300,000 people went away, nor the reforms, nor today we heard anything about GDP growth, but essentially from the beginning, from 2016. GDP slows down in the Republic of Croatia, rich as someone said today, they may have somewhat lower taxes but the vast majority of our citizens have not felt a "p" since tax reform, called reforms that are not at all. So on this side it would be normal and any normal government would listen to what the opposition says, ask for certain solutions, offer some compromises on how to pull Croatia forward but our government does not, they ignore problems, ignore what citizens are leaving Croatia, ignore what the country is lagging behind in all segments, means when we talk about an economy in the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia, we have lost more than 10 places in the past 2.3 years. When we talk about innovations and science, Croatia has something about last year, something over 130 patents, means in all of Croatia 130 patents, meaning constantly since 2008, I've seen a table the other day in the media, the number of patents in Croatia falls. One Nestle that's in the industry that's not what you'd say, intensely technologically, one Nestle has 500 patents a year. The whole of Croatia and its business community has 130 and then you see how little we invest in knowledge and innovation, which is why our economy is not competitive at all and how competitive it can be if in this way we treat a very important segment and science and the economy, and on this side I'm really surprised, means I'm so surprised that I would say, the government's reckless attitude towards its country where the head is pushed into the sand, where Prime Minister Plenkovic doesn't even experience these problems in a serious way, where he ignores everything that the citizens say, where it's only important to endure another day in office or until the end of the term to add hands and try to do it in the way that he imagined. And it is normal for people to leave Croatia and normally that when people see our judiciary react, there is also no reform, meaning that we have been waiting for the HDZ president for more than 10 years for a very simple case, sucking money out of the public sector into private pockets where one property has been paid more than it is worth and the money has been distributed to a party man near Zagreb in any way, the court finally found it where a very modest punishment is obtained for such work, one gul of potatoes on probation and the other one has been given a sentence with which he ended up in prison today but objectively, for stealing so many millions of kunas from the position of HDZ president and prime minister, it is a small penalty because when it comes to public money and standards that we should not keep in Croatia or not keep, but instead of looking for in Croatia, we should punish so much more stringently for such things that never again any of the HDZ president or HDZ would be able to intervene. And it's not the first time, we had, well, the current one, I'm sorry that Mr. Tolusic is gone because Mr. Kirin is the current mayor of Virovitica, who boasted he was the first one, but there's Mr. Djakic, also from Virovitica, those are the pals, so, who boasted he got rid of the first Fimi Media via the MUP. Imagine, the man boasted about it, and we're still waiting, and perhaps Mr. Bacic knows when HDZ will return 30 million kunas to the budget they took through the Fimi Media, get out of the public sector and spend in who knows what purpose, probably the most in election campaigns. So, while there is no reform in the economy, while there is no reform in the judiciary, while there is no sense of justice in the Republic of Croatia, it is logical that people will leave and it is logical that people will not believe that anything can be achieved in the Republic of Croatia in a fair and normal manner. Normally, people will feel that in the Republic of Croatia they are hired exclusively through certain political ties. It's normal when we look at the situation at the Environmental Protection Fund that out of 30 people, more than half of them are employed from one city, from one party, specifically here it's about the HNS, it's normal that people don't trust our country and it's normal to go away and go on until we just say no to it together, until such a way of leading the state stops and until it just stops ignoring it. So, Croatian citizens simply have to resist it, I hope it will go to the European elections and show HDZ that it does not run the country well. In this regard, I do not think that the result that HDZ will present as some good result will be proof that they lead a good country because it will certainly, as in Lika, be the worst result of HDZ in one European election It'll be a signal to HDZ to give them [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] The citizens no longer believe in the elections. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Maras...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136874	...in this election speech. Here's my colleague Bacic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since my colleague Maras, in his final part, was quite well on the subject of today's interpretation, I see that you are very well following the financial business of the HDZ, if I am not mistaken, you have been SDP's business manager for many years, and since Mr Bernardić did not answer my question, did you ever wonder in the SDP where these money that SDP was supposed to register, the EUR 700,000,00 for... in Bohinj? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Have you ever explained to yourself or to the public where your money is when you're talking about money like this in HDZ and the problem with Fimi Media?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136876	Thank you. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136877	I didn't ask myself, but I think it's clear in itself if there's been a sale of some real estate, that money is registered. What do you mean where's the money? Well, it's not the HDZ, Mr. Bacic, when something's sold, then it registers, doesn't fit into the bags and carries around. So you can be absolutely sure if ever any real estate of the SDP was sold that that money was registered in the accounts and was subject to all inspections and tax controls. That's not the case in HDZ, we know that, so you admitted it yourself, not as President Sanader, HDZ, 50% above, and 50% below the table, so you know it best. 3/...2/3, thirds, then sorry, I said a little bit more, so a third below the table [[Incursion from the assembly room: 2]] So on that side, you know a lot better than I do. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Maras]] And for this I'm saying, it's certainly registered because that's the way it's supposed to be. [[We've got an injury.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136878	Comrade Maras, I'd like to ask you nicely, please, to respect the weather. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136879	The Rules of Procedure in Art. 238. In his debate, he did not stick to the agenda, he called the MPs, probably wanting the party's court to judge again, not Croatian courts, calling in that part of me and Kirina. I hope that your hand of justice will catch up with you when it comes to yours. possibly marifettelucas. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136880	...college Djakic. I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure and fellow Djakic since you abused the Institute based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the normal state, any manifestations are expected to be punished, so if there are any manifestations of Mr. Curaj, Mr. Bačić, Mr. Shuker, and since Mr. Maras, it is impossible for one such wonderful representative as Mr. Djakić to create a manifesto, there will certainly be no, no, we don't have to list him at all because he's probably morally vertical about it, it's normal for these people to be sanctioned. So, we didn't say anything new there, but we also didn't say anything new when we say that so far in the Republic of Croatia there was no minister except in the government of Ivo Sanader who himself said that he was the first to solve the fimi media from his ministry, it was about a colleague whom you were just before, it was he himself who said it wasn't me, that's what the man was saying, I was reading in the media his testimony, it was 10 years ago, so maybe I don't know from word to word but it was certainly in that way and he admitted what was going on there all along and then the legal pins that case lasted for 12 or how many years, and that was the only thing in that government. So it's the HDZ government, it's your political circle, it's your political influence, so it's your colleagues, and on that side it's never happened again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136882	Dear colleague Maras, here's two minutes I let you go. You're talking about a topic that's not a part of the agenda, and I'd like to ask you nicely to get back on the subject. [[I'm on my way right now. I'm on my way.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136883	So, I hope that the reform of the judiciary, that the reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia will go in this direction to move which lasts for 12 and more years, by which HDZ ministers admit that they have drawn money, in which the president of the HDZ embezzles the building or money publicly and buys the building for more than it was worth, in which the HDZ minister and the vice-president of the government repents and then Guli potatoes for several years, that these reforms in the judiciary will lead to Croatian citizens finally feeling justice, finally feeling justice, and that is all we want. That a HDZ man who in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce has done wonders for himself obviously, does not wait for the trial so long and that the punishment eventually happens if you have done something, not that people in a year get judgments for some misdemeanors in a hurry, and that these big fish that have obviously political protection do not get convictions for years and years. And that's what I'd say is injustice and that's the lack of justice reform we're warning us about here. And you can't wash yourself gentlemen because it's obvious to HDZ, that HDZ is not in the interest of reforming and reforming the judiciary. I would sincerely like it if we didn't have that kind of shame in the Republic of Croatia, if one HDZ premium had ended up in jail today, I would really like it because it hurts our entire country. It is easy that it damages HDZ, foreigners and what violates people's trust in HDZ, but it shames the Republic of Croatia. Tomorrow, in the media world, it will say that the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia ended up in prison for stealing from the budget. So on this side, I would like our institutions and our own, our judicial authorities to have faster work, that judicial reform requires or leads to faster processes taking place, and that our citizens feel that we have a fair system in the Republic of Croatia, not that one is protected, and that others unfortunately have to suffer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136884	I thank my colleague Maras. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Arsen Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I must say that I am not completely satisfied with your answer to my colleague Bačić's question about the money from the Bohinj villa, am I okay? So, he probably meant the following, if this villa was bought by members of the party that we should give HDZ that part of the money that HDZ members were paying as party members with membership fees. I think that would be the least of it. I hope everything you said about the sale of that villa and the money, if that's what happened, so it was a long time ago before we were in the party's lead, if it was all right and in the account, that it was paid the tax that was to be paid, and if Djakić's lesson is not applied, the marifettelucas and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136886	I'm hanging in there. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136887	Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk. I didn't realize it that way, but now that you've given me some direction to ask Mr. Bacic if they're their money, because 80% of the members of the communists, 80,000 members of the communists went to HDZ, and that's probably what HDZ should have gotten their share. Mr. Bacic probably thought of it, if he didn't really know how to answer it, but I'm sure there were some sort of manifesto, as Mr. Djakic says, that, in order not to miss a skilled tax collector, Mr. Schuker, who could have controlled it for 8.9 years and not to propose to the Constitutional Court of Lek in that situation, the Constitutional Court and raise his hand. So it's all clear for me, Mr. Schucker gave us confirmation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136888	Dear colleague Maras, I would like you, colleague Shuker, please, my colleague Shuker, please, my colleague Maras, I ask you nicely during your debate, do not belittle and call on the parliamentary representatives and the foundation of Article 240, I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of this debate, and I would like to give you Mr Schuker a notice on the basis of Article 239 for the demeaning of my fellow Maras. Dear colleague Bacic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136889	I thank Mr. Vice President, the injured Article 238 of his colleague, Maras, is in the replica, Mr. Bauku's godlike replica, replicated me and did not stick to the article of the Rules of Procedure that speaks of the replica. So, colleague Maras, there's no problem with the HDZ funding, from the HDZ membership fee, but you didn't answer me as SDP's business director and show me, I'm asking you to do this, to show us that Virman and the jury account on which the money was paid so that perhaps we wouldn't have to set up an investigative commission on such a transaction [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bačić]] for which it has never been shown to the Croatian public, and many times it has been questioned [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bačić]] [[Intruder: My fellow Bačić thanks...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136890	I warned my colleague already about holding the agenda and the subject, so there was no need for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have a replica of a colleague, Djakic, but since colleague Maras can no longer answer, then there is no need for replication. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, here you are. What did you have? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? You had a replica, but colleague Maras can't answer the line, then there's no need. Here you go, fellow Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136891	Thank you, Vice President. If we were to go back to structural reforms or structural reforms to the existence of structural reforms, and before that I would say that there has been a lot said here during all these hours, and we have also been mentioned that we have spoken a series of curses, insults, lies. But I would say that what was said, that they are mostly facts, and perhaps even a cruel reality because how can we see what kind of reform we can actually expect from someone who, let's say, is a family only if he's a child in the community. Or how we can expect or what kind of reform we can expect from someone whose life partners are not desirable as foster parents. Or how we can expect in the welfare system some kind of reform when it sees violence as a marital dispute or someone, so how can we expect a reform from someone when they are unaware of the impact of their statements on violence and the impact on the victims themselves, including the violent themselves, and does not care about it at all. How can we expect reform when someone who is in the welfare system, so immediately, to the incident that happened here recently, immediately replaces the director and erases responsibility from himself, blames professionals for the failures, and then suddenly turns afterwards. Well, these days we're witnessing to speak and we're complaining about how difficult it is in the social care system and how burdened social workers are, and that in fact the unprofessional public or famous and artists are actually doing their activities and activists harm social care, so now she's found, so this person who should make a key reform in the welfare system or the key things for the shifts in demographics. The guilt here is found right in the actors, so it's really a person who has all the competences to do something very positive in this area. But we'll also go back to two reports. I would like to mention to you the European Commission's report, but also the report by the Advocate General for 2018. Wouldn't it be normal if, because if what you're saying is true, that the country is going forward, that GDP is growing, wouldn't it be normal to have money for the poorest? But it looks like this government, that you don't actually have it, you don't want it. The attorney general herself told you in 2016 and 2017. and now in the 2018 report. the fact that the risk of the poor is still high, especially for elderly people who are largely inaccessible and social services, and significant differences in pensions increase inequality and a sense of injustice, and the European Commission's recommendation to coordinate pensions under the General Special Regulation has not been adopted. Furthermore, the risk of poverty is 2.300,00 kn, the average pension under the general rule is 2,400,00 kn, which already says that one of the reasons for the really great poverty of our elderly citizens is an extremely low average of pensions, unlike those under special regulations, for example officials whose pensions are on average more than 9.000,00 kn and this is indeed a huge disproportionate, one feeling and injustice and inequality. The D.A. is still talking, and what this government hasn't done all these years, you can't argue that the last defense against poverty is guaranteed a minimum fee that was last raised in 2014 and despite all the warnings it hasn't raised since, that this guaranteed minimum fee leads to a deep gap of poverty. Why, because such a low guaranteed minimum fee is no incentive for those who receive it to enter the world of work, because it is most often about people who are neither able to work at work nor who have any degree of disability or older age. So, just like this, with a minimum fee for such a small fee won't get into the world of work. And it has been shown all these years and this is where the recommendations of the European Commission are going, that it should be increased because it is meant for those who cannot enter the world of work despite all our efforts, despite all the active employment policy measures, they are not working. Therefore, it was for these individuals to increase this fee and it was necessary to make it through all these years and that is what this government did not do. With all the promises that something will happen, I am expressing a really deep doubt, we are entering, so in 2019, we were announced that somewhere by the end of the year we will be going with the new Social Care Act, because it is precisely to wait for the Social Care Act to go to change and introduce some increases and improvements. It's hardly going to happen, he's curious about what this law will be like, but if it's the way it's been announced then it's the Family Law or everything that the minister has announced through all these statements, I'm afraid there will already be big problems in the public debate itself. And as we enter 2020 we'll see that already, it's already an election period when we can expect very, very little progress. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136892	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136893	Thank you very much Vice President of the Assembly, here as the last speaker, you wouldn't repeat everything that's been said, today we've convinced ourselves, we've convinced ourselves of a variety of flossules and stories that this government is doing well or that this government isn't doing well. Similarly, certain data were provided, and the debate became serious. The ruling coalition assured us of relatively accurate data, that there is a credit rating growing, GDP growing, that we have some modest growth. Equally, the opposition presented its data that undoubtedly spoke of the state of affairs in the country not being well and that structural reforms are not being implemented and that result is not being achieved if some of them are also starting to implement what people in this country would like. I mentioned several times in the debate a few very important indicators, and now I'm going to mention them all from which it clearly stems that the situation with structural or any other reform does not stand well in this country. I will therefore appeal to foreign analysts and analysts who do not have any political interest in the Republic of Croatia and should not therefore, unfoundedly or defend or attack any political power in this country. So, the World Singles Law Index has brought down the RH from 21 places it was at the time of the government's SDP for three seats in 24 places. It's judicial reform. The World Economic Forum, which takes a lot of data and criteria to rank the countries of Croatia, has dropped from 120 seats during the SDP government's rule to 140 seats, so 20 seats have fallen. It's about judicial reform, how many analysts estimate we've made progress, we've de facto reversed. Media freedom, the same economic World Economic Forum says we fell 56 places, below neighbouring BiH for the first time. Reporters without borders on freedom of the media say we fell 11 places between the SDP government and today's HDZ government. So the freedom of the media has diminished, and we have had a nice opportunity to see this during the protests that journalists have organised to just warn the government about reducing freedom of the media and the great pressures journalists are experiencing. The country's democracy index through the eyes of analysts The Economist says we fell by 9 seats compared to when the country was headed by the SDP government, 51 seats to 60. And that more important indicator that all the investors of Doing Busines are looking at, I repeat, they say that we fell from 40 to 58, 18 places, so that's exactly the ranking, so that's the order that all investors look at when they come into this country or any other investment. But, well, the data is here I believe that no one has convinced anyone too much that he's right, but today we should answer the fundamental question whether we're really satisfied with the state of reform in this country, can we come home to our family and say we're doing well, can we say something like that to our neighbors? Citizens who leave this country in large numbers to talk about the exodus already, in fact, worsen our opinion on it and how we are here in Croatia. They tell us by their decision to leave this country that the government has not encouraged its reform activities to hope in them to remain neither faith that it will be better. And not only are the citizens leaving, even their children's parents are trying to study at foreign universities, not believing anymore, the education system of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, those who have enough money to do that. Some of them are involved in such deviating social phenomena as social capitalism, which is clearly dominated by the good part of our economy. It's the things people leave for. Then it is not strange to joke and say that this inscription on the entrance to the Parliament where it stands is only God above the Parliament, that one R should be reached to make the situation quite illustrating for what happened in our Croatian harsher reality. And that's the letter R, so instead of God being above Parliament, you should actually write, the borg is above Parliament. It's a picture of the situation, unfortunately in this country, why people leave it. Trust in the institutions, our system is getting smaller. And what we have to admit is that we have a serious crisis of trust in political institutions, a crisis of governance in this country. Only 3% of our country's citizens think they manage well, public affairs, only 3%. Without citizens' trust in institutions and governance, you do not have the opportunity to lead the country in a quality democratic way. Our citizens believe 61% of the military, 46 police. So, these state bodies, they trust the most. These state bodies belong to de facto in the organs, then, not the organs but to the means of the breast state to impose its will when it is lawful and necessary. They're based on order and discipline. So that's what the citizens of this country are missing. The government and state administration have 10% confidence in citizens, the Assembly 8% and the political parties 4. The crisis of trust in the institutions of this system, this country, this country, this society, has eaten this country dangerously. If we don't solve it, we won't be able to reform it. Citizens believe more the EU, 25%, than their own government, their own Parliament. They trust the United Nations 27% more than their own government, state administration and their own parliament, without telling our political parties. It was said in the debate that the foundation, or reform, of all reforms, is the reform of the state administration. She's important, but she's not a key reform. The key reform in this country is education reform, because if you don't have quality educated people, who know how to face the challenges of the 21st century and you won't be able to come up with reforms that this country can raise from the fungi. And that's why this reform is a key reform for everything else. The human capital in this country is all spit and spit. Those who should be a recovery engine, with new ideas, quality and modern, are all less in this country, leaving this country. And that's why education reform must be number one on the agenda of our entire society and this Parliament. Unfortunately, it is spoken of a lot, but it is poorly materialized in practice. Until she leaves, I'm afraid she won't start any other structural reform. We'll talk a lot about reforming the state administration, reforming the judiciary, reforming the economy, but we won't go far. We need new solutions, modern solutions, new people who are able to come up with this, because obviously, experience shows us that those who are currently in government, those who are currently running the state, are not able to. So let's invest in education, support education, force the ministry to accept curricula reform, to implement it in practice, so that this country has a chance to live. Because our alternative isn't very bright. If we're not going to go that way then we're going to go the way we're moving out of this country, by losing industry, now we're slowly losing both shipbuilding and all the knowledge that went along with the shipbuilding that made this country beautiful. All the shipyards of the former Yugoslavia were in Croatia, and the country was then 4th in the production of ships in the world. These were ships produced in Croatia, with Croatian knowledge. Today, unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about it anymore. We're losing all the industries where knowledge is the foundation, we're left with what's called the so-called knowledge. The blue collar industry. So we're just turning into an announcement of labor, and we're coming up with something, to know how to do something, less and less. That's what we have to worry about, that's where we have to change things, so we have a chance to get back to a modern, democratic, prosperous state that no one wants to get out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136894	I would like to thank my colleague Klisovic, the final word on behalf of the Government, the Honorable State Secretary, Mrs. Maria Vuckovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136895	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs, fellow State Secretary, it is very short, it is very late, so I will try to be brief. I want to thank everyone for the debate, but I am sorry that it has not been more concise and that it has not tabled concrete proposals for implementing structural reforms. Also, I regret a series of wrong data that we have heard here, and they are related to key indicators, Croatian economies and societies, such as moving out, completely blames the data even though they are certainly excessive, any, and completely guilty. It completely blames the data on imports and exports, the wrong GDP data, the wrong figures on the number and classes of income people, who felt the effects of tax reforms, etc. It is unnecessary to use false data, there is always and can be, there is always room to be better, and it is our goal as a Croatian government. I certainly think I speak on behalf of all ministries when I say that we will work harder to implement structural reforms, and they have been completed or started 81% according to the EU Commission report, and we at the Ministry of Agriculture before we continue with everything we have started, strategy, digitalisation, consumption, the design of funds that have not even been designed. First, we'll solve the remaining 10 major audit findings of the 30 we inherited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136896	Thank you. The secretary of state. Final word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136897	Thank you, dear Vice President Brkic. Dear Representatives of Glasovac, MP Alfirev, MP Klisovic, MP Curaj, MP... , MP Bačiću, representative Juričev Martinchev, representative Šuker and MP Djakić and State Secretary Vukkov Burić Ramljak and the secretary of the plenary session and other valuable civil servants and deputies who, together with us, have allowed this debate to end until these late hours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's very difficult to sublime everything that's been said in the last nine hours in half an hour, so I won't even try. From the State Secretary's presentation, it is clear that there is a need to talk more often about structural reforms, that there is a need for better information and that there is a need for us to have accurate data, so it is ideal that HS accepts these conclusions that we have proposed because then all of this will be included in what the Secretary of State has said on behalf of the Government. Also, the debate was really the way it was imagined, so all the issues about the government's work that needed to be done. There have been opinions, there have been statements of MPs, there have been misrepresentations and the right advocates, or the right attitudes and the wrong advocates, depending on how anyone looks, but I believe that this will not be our final debate on these topics. Given that during today's debate has been overshadowed by one judicial event that I will not mention, I am left with just, here to remember a little bit in a way to greet you famously, not old, but a new Croatian greeting, goodbye and thanks for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136898	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk, for this final word. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the secretary of state, ma'am. Maria Vuchković and Mrs. Majdi Buric and Mrs. Branko Ramljak is participating in the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the agenda points foreseen for today's session. We'll continue at 9.30 in the morning with a statement on the amendments. Good night, good night. Session adjourned at 1.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136899	We are going to vote on the debated points, Interpol on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement structural reforms. Come in, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136900	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I am marketing a break to warn again about the non-implementation of reforms in Croatia. Croatia sinks deeper every day, the country is in total ruin, institutions do not function, the judiciary does not function, the DORH does not function. Should it be said that GDP growth records a decline in the third year in a row? Industrial production also falls, the third year in a row, we fall on a level of competitiveness, so Croatia has fallen from 40 to 58 places and is side by side to some African countries, the fact is also that the number of employees falls. Never in Croatia, in history, have we had such record employment. We are also falling into the perception of corruption, i.e. We're sinking deeper and deeper, among the most corrupt countries in the world. It's the government's fault. At the same time, we fall when it comes to protecting human rights. What's happening in Croatia is that nothing is produced anymore and production is shut down, in Uljannik, in 3. May in the mammalian refinery. The only thing where production is growing rapidly is the production of affairs. And there you can't be ashamed of Sanader's best days either, because this ruling set, is on its way, to go down the Eva Sanader rate given the number of affairs he's making. The only thing that grows in the country is the number of people who leave our country every day. But, and they'd cover up all the affairs, and then they'd go in, and they'd go in, and they'd go in, and they'd go in, and they'd go in, and they'd be suing the opposition politicians for their spoken word. That's how it is, for example. Yesterday, Mr. Bačić, threatened, referring to his influence in the Croatian judiciary, through his best friends, because he probably knows who he will be tried by the Croatian judiciary after the word is spoken here. And that's the case, not only with me, but also with many MPs, in opposition ranks. But you won't stop us and you won't stop us and you won't shut us up. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much, colleague Bernardic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136901	Comrade Bernardic, I will stop you because your time is up. Here's a colleague of Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136902	I thank Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a break in order to repeat once again, all of what we said yesterday in response to the government's interpretation of work on the government's success in implementing structural reforms. And then we stressed, and I will now repeat, that the government is talking about the best relevant international institutions, first of all the EU Commission, which in its report in February so two months ago, indicated that the government was successful in implementing structural reforms and made it possible to exit from the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, and in particular stressed and commended the government in the part concerning tax reform, pension reform, on educational reform. In particular, she pointed out that with her clever management of public finances, the government allowed the Croatian budget to be in surplus for the first time, to the extent that the possible protesting of the currency due to the non-executive practices in Uljanik, which was guaranteed by the Government of Zoran Milanovic, will not disrupt neither the budget nor have a significant impact on the results of the Croatian budget. Furthermore, on how the government works and how successful the government is in implementing structural reforms, said Standard % Poor's agency, which returned the RS investment rating, a credit rating at investment level. Unlike the SDP government whose mandate was twice destroyed by the same credit rating of the Republic of Croatia And wherewith she showed ignorance [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The SDP in the run of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-04-0.u136903	Okay. Now we're going to take a 10 minute break and continue at 14.10 minutes. Please be in the assembly at exactly 14.10 p.m. MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS. Comrades and colleagues, please take our seats so we can please approach the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.10 HOURS]] Dear Vice President HS, Reverend Furio Radin, please take your place. Okay, are we all? We did. Please sit down and join the vote, I give, therefore, the Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement structural reforms. The applicants are 23 MPs in HS. The debate is closed. I am voting the Interpelition on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement structural reforms. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes of the 27 ZA, 1 abstention and 75 votes against, have been rejected by the Interpellation submitted by 23 MPs in HS. And here's where the initial mistakes happen, so we'll forgive the MP.
