ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123900	Now it is the independent representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123901	Dear fellow MPs, today I'm going to talk about a topic that came into the public's focus last week, but here's slowly falling into oblivion. I've talked about this subject many times, and today I will. So it's about blocking Serbia's entry into the EU. For those who do not know Serbia started accession negotiations with the EU in 2015 to become a full member of the EU such as Croatia. We had a situation that we felt in our own skin six years ago when we were entering the EU when Slovenia blocked our entry into the EU because of the unresolved border problem in the Savudria Valley. With us neighbouring, and I can't say to the friendly state of Serbia we have much more problems, but the Croatian government, in this matter, does nothing, stands at hand, does absolutely nothing. So we have a historic opportunity that we will no longer have in 2 years when Serbia joins the EU. Here we have the opportunity to condition the Republic of Serbia its entry into the EU by blocking the opening and closing of chapters. When I talk about the EU here, I must point out, we are all aware that Croatia lost a large part of sovereignty when it entered the EU as a union of Christian peoples, so on the Christian continent Robert Schumann, Conrad Adenauer, Alcide De Gasperi, were just imagining such an EU. However, the EU, originally designed as an exclusively economic association, the first coal and steel community, and then 51 years later, the European Economic Community, is now becoming much more than that. Today, documents such as the Marrakek Agreement, the Istanbul Convention, are being imposed from the EU, which have nothing to do with anything but the economy. So, in this union, which is all but an economic community, because Croats are not prosperous in it better than they have prospered in the former community, Serbia is soon entering. We will have a similar association as the unfortunate Yugoslavia in which we will also be living with neighbouring Serbia and the neighbouring people of Serbs. I will also repeat that this unsuspecting behaviour of the Croatian government is inadmissible, where arms are being cut off as Serbia enters the EU and nothing is being done on this issue. Even more so, I must point out that just now Prime Minister Plenkovic is the most responsible why the Serbian Progressive Party of Aleksandra Vukic, you know about the man who has advocated the Greater Serbia in the Homeland War before Zagreb, has become a member of the European People's Party and the PPI, and today in the same clubs there are members of HDZ, members of the HDZ and members of the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandra Vukic. I believe that the Croatian government must be a little more sovereign, that our Prime Minister Plenkovic must think a little more as Croatian prime minister and less as a European because his legitimacy has been given to him by the Croatian people and he must represent Croatian interests. I must stress here that, relatively recently, the Poles have recently asked the German war damage for what time again, it was done by the Greeks, and the Croats are silent. So, from this point on, I announce that personally I will be in front of my party HRAST, but also in front of the Croatian conservative party with whom we are in the coalition demanding ultimate from the Croatian government every time I am given the opportunity to meet my requirements for Serbia to be conditional on joining the EU primarily by recognising aggression on the Republic of Croatia. These are not some conflict or conflict there as some like to call them, it was the aggression of the Republic in Croatia. The question of the missing, that we know where ours have disappeared, the issue of the border, and we have an unresolved issue of the border with the Republic of Serbia and finally the issue of war damage. I don't want politicians from Europe laughing at us for being incompetent, that the Croatian government is doing nothing, and it's in a position to do something. So, I demand and ask the Croatian government for Serbia to join the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123902	The second debate, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic as an independent representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123903	So, the Croatian Parliament often forgets some dates, so fellow Djakic behind my back and President of the Assembly Mr. Jandrokovic forgot to mark the day of St. Josip, protector of the Croatian people, protector of the Croatian state. So, I congratulate all Croatians and Croats throughout the Croatian people from this place with one day of delay in the holiday of his patron, their patron of St. Joseph. This very home, meaning the Croatian Parliament in 1687 made a decision to St. Joseph is the protector of our Croatian people and our Croatian state, but we forgot it. Here I am, too, sorry about what happened, and I hope that the coming HS and the Croatian government will remember this important day. Here today I would say something about double standards, or I would say something about hate speech. Today we have some MPs in HS, one called Nenad, not here, one called Milorad, is also not in the assembly, who are very much expressing their criticism of crimes on one side. And even, I've pointed out that many times, especially my colleague, Nenad. It even exults on victims and crimes that took place over the Bleiburg field, on the crossroad, and on the other hand, their eyes are full of tears when it comes to marking the Jasenian victims. And they forget that in the same place after 45 years there was also a concentration camp in the same Jasenovac and that those they were glorifying, who wore the red star and were still killing and torturing in that exact place, and every crime should be condemned. And the one before 45 and the one after 45. Then I wonder if maybe the only reason this is happening is because Croatian victims have no equal value in their eyes, as victims of Serbs, Jews and others. Each victim is equally valuable and every crime and every criminal regime should be condemned. So is that Chetnic. Well, I haven't heard from our colleague Milorad yet, nor have I heard from fellow Stazic that he has condemned the communist regime, that he has made a clear and loud condemnation of gambling, that he has condemned Chettice. And even if he said the term, the name, the Homeland War. We've never heard that from him. And we've never heard an apology for those crimes that took place recently in the last Homeland War. So these days we are also served the news that the New Zealand maniac visited several times Croatia, and the news is that the genocide he made over the Muslims in the New Zealand mosque has been stimulated by Chetnik songs and then today we have a rehabilitation of Chetnoism in Serbia. We have a failure to react to the Croatian authorities on this issue, although I personally sent a letter to the Croatian government a year ago to proceed hastily, to send a diplomatic note to withdraw the ambassador properly, until the cops who celebrate the Chetnic criminals in Belgrade who are in front of the Croatian Embassy in Belgrade are removed. Nothing, though. I'll be back. On the one hand, we have the condemnation of all the heinous crimes that the Croats once committed, I'll say, every crime is for conviction. However, it is ignored and there is no evidence of a crime committed recently under the Chetnic Cocard and anything that has been killed since the 45th year under the red star. I'm gonna pull another interesting parallel here. Not far from Jasenovac is one settlement Zrin. Once a Croatian settlement that was completely burned by Partisans in 1943, all Croats were expelled and killed and later in 1946 Croatian property was handed over to Serbs. Today we have a Croatian settlement in Serbian property, and the Croatian state is doing nothing about Zrina.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123904	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123905	Your Honor. He's been injured. 238 in which one representative insults another. We know well who he was talking about, and therefore, I ask you that these things, especially when those representatives who are spoken of are not present, who are offended and who are trying to put themselves in the context of something absolutely, I believe, in this House would not accept. I must say that Mr. Zekanovic absolutely broke the rule, which is that MPs are free to speak, therefore, there is no right to speak to them in what way to perform. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123906	Thank you. I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken because there are often situations where MPs, even though there are no colleagues, speak of them in a very ugly and inappropriate manner. We have been making warnings and violations of the Rules of Procedure, but I would agree and invite you to take care of them, when you talk about others, that you do not bring them to their expense, especially if they are not there. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123907	My colleague also violated the Rules of Procedure, since he referred me to a business injury that does not exist. It's not my fault my colleagues aren't in their workplace. It's not my fault. And it says that every word I've said, whether it's right for you or wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123908	Well, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, let's not now, so now I'm going to give and I'm going to start giving warnings, so you're also getting a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and my assessment was that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure as well as in this case. So now, I don't know what you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123909	Your Honor. I'm strictly sticking to the Rules of Procedure. I've got an article. In 238, it states that the other representative does not have the right to insult the president or other MPs. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, it is not correct of colleagues, when they say that there was no injury, or that I had no right to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123910	All right, fellow Ostojić. If warnings were to be shared, then almost every third or fourth debate would deserve reminders because people often touch other MPs, and now, which is an insult, it is difficult sometimes to assess. But I'm calling you, one more time. My colleague Zekanovic, you can't get for hurting the Rules of Procedure because I said what I had to say, there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure and we won't go any further now. Okay, but we're not gonna fight now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123911	Mr. Zekanovic, Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak as an independent representative, so individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123912	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I will talk about the protection of life, I will talk about a law that the Croatian government does not dare put on the agenda and it is about the law on abortion. We wrote it, put it in a legal procedure, didn't call it an abortion law because our law protects life, so we called it the Life Protection Act. But I find it interesting that none of the HDZs are here right now, that they've all left the Assembly, that everyone has escaped from hearing what they belong to. And none of them wanted to sign the bill I offered them to protect their lives from the beginning. Not one. And you all know that HDZ is being declared a party of Christian Democrats, as a democratic party and no one wanted to sign it. And they have a chance, they have a chance to put him in the process, I guarantee we will have enough hands in the Croatian Parliament but they do not have the courage. Why don't they have the courage because a lot of things are more important, their priority is the party, the seat and democracy or Christianity obviously in the 3rd, 4th or 5th place, it's not that important. The law is simple, it is actually a constitutional provision that I must implement in Croatian laws. This is an article of the 21st Croatian Constitution, item 1 which says every human being has the right to live. Not born or unborn, but every human being. And science is that clear, no scientist, biologist, anthropologist, whoever, is going to say that life starts sometime later than inception, the life of a new human being begins at the moment when sperm fertilizes the ovary and becomes a zygot. And it's a new human being. And the Croatian law says that human life is protected. And we deny it. Not only that, today's government is denying another very important thing, which is that the Constitutional Court has given the deadline of 2 years and the deadline has begun to run in March 2017 to pass a new law, they have called it about abortion, I call it about protecting life because that's what it should look like to no one. Recently, our President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Jandrokovic, wrote to the Constitutional Court and said who your haircut, who you plums, will not honour your decision, will not honour the decision of the highest judicial body in the Republic of Croatia because we don't care, he doesn't care, I care. Why? Because this Prime Minister Plenkovic, the Prime Minister, is not pragmatic, he wants to be a Christian and does not want to pass Christian laws. He wants to take Christian votes but does not want to pass laws according to what he is declared to be. And it's upside down. And I will repeat, here I would like the camera to record, no member of the biggest party in Croatia, the HDZ is currently in the assembly. And I'm going to repeat the other thing, not one of my colleagues, unfortunately I'm going to say, he didn't want to sign the life protection bill. However, I will not give up because I am sure that sooner or later, there will be enough patriotism in this House, and I will say in humanity and godly devotion, which is precisely this or similar bill that protects life from its beginning, and that is the origination of it. And all those who did not sign and declare themselves as such should be ashamed of them, let them actually think about who they are and who they are. Although I know this won't have an echo because it's not pragmatic. Some topics simply are not wise to open, it is not wise to talk about the beginning of life, it is better to talk about some right to privacy, who knows what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123913	We are now going to the 9th Club of Representatives, it is HDS, HSLS and HDSSB and respected colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123914	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Last year, same in this business opportunity on behalf of the club I was talking about the need for discussion and the adoption of certain legal frameworks related to a workless Sunday. We are witnessing in this time that certain units of local self-government have started self-initiating negotiations with trades in their own areas or other business entities, in order to become units of local self-government without working on Sundays. It's mostly about shops, it's about two municipalities in Koprivnica-križevci County, so it actually encouraged me to present a few thoughts and attitudes, primarily us in HDS. These municipalities have made a commendable move, there are likely to be more such municipalities, there are such municipalities throughout the Republic of Croatia. But of course this will not solve the issue of free Sunday for Croatian citizens, especially those who work in malls, shops, where women, younger women, women who have children, and who say that it is actually the hardest thing for them to do when they go to work on Sundays, leave their children and family because they should all be together and devote themselves to their family, and then this measure has a strong impact on the overall demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Looking at all this together and pointing to this problem before, therefore, the view of the HDS absolutely needs to be passed by the Unworkable Week Act that we can do this very simply by looking at examples of such practices from developed countries, in the area of Austria's example, it is free to do something like that which is good and to simply start this story debate and make such a decision. I am pleased to read in the media that the government has launched certain activities in the analysis of the problems and analyses of the effects of introducing a workless Sunday, I hope and believe that this is on the trail and the way that we really come to Croatia to have a jobless Sunday, dedicated to families that young mothers, primarily young parents, can plan for some of their trips, trips to nature, and not to shopping centres. Because today in Croatia it has become fashion and modernism that family is actually performed and those who do not work Sundays at malls without thinking that there is a counter in these shops, in shopping malls are doing the same mother or fathers, but most mothers who want to be with their children that day, take their children along with their life partner, with their husband, husband and wife, somewhere on a trip to nature, to be expensive, to be at some family lunch, to deal with their children in the circle of their family. And we, as a branch of the HDS Koprivnica-Kryzeva County, launched an initiative, sent an open letter to the units of local self-government in Koprivnica-Kryzeva County and the management of the county to consider the possibility and further such initiatives as some units of local self-government have already made to include as many units of local self-government as possible and thus effectively stimulated the solution to this problem as quickly as possible. What is important and important, we listened to the voice of the public after this initiative, and I must say that we came across very little criticism that in principle the comments and thinking of the people who followed these events were positive and that in most cases they supported it. Here I hope and believe that soon we will have such proposals for amending the law and become a state that cares for the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123915	Thank you. Now he should have spoken to a respected colleague, Pupovac, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, and he's not here and he's losing his right to speak. So we move on to the main speaker, which is a respected colleague Branko Hrg on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123917	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have, on several occasions, pointed out the problem here and also some colleagues and colleagues of devastation of private forests, stealing in private forests, destroying the environment by cutting down private forests, avoiding likely tax and non-reaction of the system in the protection of the owners of these forests. I have a very specific case, asked by a man that if it is possible to present this case here in the Croatian Parliament, that in some way try to run a state mechanism, that something about this is finally starting to solve. On Sunday, I was with hunters there in that sub-kalic neighborhood, so several people showed me the problem by also citing their examples where their forests were cut down, they were sold, they were driven away, they had no protection, they had no one to turn to, they couldn't compensate for their damage, let alone return the cut forest. This case I'm talking about happened in the woods, it's called the Cučevac in k.o. Oil, it's somewhere around Gareshnica, it's been cut somewhere around 3 a.m. in the woods, it's been exported, probably sold, the owner reported it to a competent inspection, the inspection practically did nothing, they just called the police, the police told the owner that he had to make an assessment of the forest and then report the theft, if it were found who exported it, that then he had to go to a private lawsuit to settle his damage. The same case as I said I heard on Sunday where a man said it was, they cut my woods, they took my wood, I found who did it, the man told me it was some neighbor who sold it to him, I didn't know whose forest, I can't tell you anything anymore. Sue me or sue him. What will sue him when he doesn't have to pay him at all, there's nowhere to charge from and nothing to anyone, he ate a donkey wolf and it happens every day throughout Croatia in these private forests. It is amazing that there is no system in Croatia that would stop the theft of nature, which would stop tax avoidance, which would in some way protect citizens because this particular example that is happening throughout Croatia points to an inefficient system in the protection of citizens and their ownership. I really call on the state institutions to look a little bit at this direction, to simply launch the processes, that if it is necessary to propose amendments to the laws that will stop such a thing, which will sanction people and people who do such damage and such thefts, alienation of property, to settle this damage because in this way, we will soon practically not have any more private forests. People have forests, they move from these parts, they don't go into those woods, they don't look at that forest, of course they don't see it every day, they come in, they look at it, there's no forest, there's nothing. and nothing to anyone. When it ends in court, we know exactly what it looks like. There's no justice, there's no compensation, you're being ridiculous to yourself, in the end you have expenses to pay, and you have the damage that's been done to you. And indeed, a very serious appeal and an invitation to make certain amendments to the law and to begin to protect people and their property.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123918	It is now up to the respected counterpart Branko Hrg, the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123919	Thank you very much, Mr. President. These days, the results of last year's success in sports are being summed up all over Croatia. And encouraged by just one such event, by the beautiful event in my town of Križevci, I want to present today several thoughts, related to sport, to the gathering of young people, to the organisation of sports, especially in the local environments throughout the Republic of Croatia. I think we pay little attention to this extremely important subject, an extremely important role in the development of a healthy man. Especially in rural areas, in smaller towns, in smaller areas. The establishment of a central state sports office, along with the Croatian Olympic Committee, along with local communities and regionals, certainly opens up one greater width, creates some better, greater conditions, for more attention to this extremely valuable, extremely valuable activity in society, creating conditions for sports. Why did he encourage me? Because I attended the award for the best athletes and athletes, collectives, in the town of Križevci and here today I actually want to congratulate the public, young people who are mentioned there, who you probably have never heard of and if I hadn't been there, I probably wouldn't have heard of it either. So, the names I will now say are unknown in Croatia, and you will hear what these people are, Veronica Drljačić, Ida Šimunčić, Marcela Gudić, Neven Krulic, Fired Mergon, Rudolph King. Young people, excellent students, successful students, excellent athletes, athletes, representatives of Croatia, multiple national champions. Young people who are engaged in enthusiasm, volunteers, who organize athletic sports in the town of Križevci, in the athletic club Križevci. I will say here that behind them are excellent coach Drago Palici, multiple Croatian Olympic Branko Zorko and that there is another Olympic named Nino Habun. But, they train in impossible conditions, we did not create conditions for them to achieve, significantly better results, and I call here to ensure that all these institutions that I have talked about and the central state sports office and the Croatian Olympic Committee and the local community, try in the coming times, as much association as possible, together provide as much resources as possible, in order to edit sports sites throughout the Republic, in order to enable young people to be more active in sport. And students, based and secondary schools, even kindergartens, have the right conditions for this kind of activity that is of paramount importance. Now there is already such an initiative and the central office and the Croatian Olympic Committee have the means to invest in local sport, but it is not good and it will not be good and will have to be here in the Croatian Parliament, when both these bodies and the Government are provided with substantial larger funds, connect these funds with local self-government, and also with sponsors and create much better conditions, with congratulations to all of them and all the others in Croatia, let this be one call for more investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123920	The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123921	Thank you very much. I was actually invited by today's debate on the prevention of drug abuse, so I'm thinking about what preventive measures could be used more to prevent addiction in young people often in children in Croatia and, of course, always returning to sports in that part. He returns to the organisation of sports, returns to the way in which the wide layers of children and young people and sports activities are included. It actually occurs to me that an organization that has been organising thousands and thousands of children throughout Croatia for over 20 years and outside of Croatia in other countries and fills in that space that we are not really dealing with enough in the system. Mostly in school sport, I think that there is a huge space empty and that we could actually do an extremely big job if a little more institutional attention was devoted to involving children and young people in the system of education in various sports activities and that then reports on the prevention of drug abuse would be quite different and with many more positive elements. Sports games of young people act, as I said, throughout the Republic of Croatia, outside the Republic of Croatia, and I am very familiar with this activity, I know that they encounter great support in the countries to which they come. They also have certain support in the Republic of Croatia, in particular having support from certain units of local self-government that are also included in the programme. I think that such activities should actually be where and where they are more significantly supported, that they need where and where more significant and more invested and that we can make a big step in curbing any addiction. I recently talked about the need to invest in sports at local levels, today I will only mention it and say that we have the opportunity through the Central State Sport Office, through the Croatian Olympic Committee, so through the state budget and national sports organisations and through the budget of the local self-government unit to create even better conditions and to install it all in the strategy against drug abuse. One example is how much it costs to treat someone who bowed to drugs, to invest that money in sports at local levels, to cover wider masses of children, to save and prevent dozens of children from being treated by one, a fallen person who has succumbed to that evil. And it is absolutely a message and a recommendation to all of us, our country, our leadership, for the next period, to provide for more significant means of sport, to support organisations of this type, which do not include club sports in training, but which include a wide range of children and young people such as sport games of young people, and thus to make this one step in which I could very well be saying, anti-addiction triggers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123922	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123923	The third debate of respected counterpart Branko Hrg on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123924	Thank you very much, Mr. President, today, of course, Oily is the main topic, but I'm not going to talk about it because we're talking about regional things and Oily is also often mentioned as a regional story unfortunately bad. I'm just going to say that I'd like to see those who were about 15 billion kuna somewhere, 15 billion kunas of budgetary taxpayers that are missing, no one answers, no one is guilty, and today they're still looking for the state to keep giving money. Well, I think it's time to say enough and it can't go like that anymore. But I asked for a statement on behalf of the club for one other thing, the other day I think it was 5.3. Minister Tolusic said in Slavonia that every student who enters the Faculty of Agriculture in Slavonia after the first year will receive 10,000 kuna from the state budget for each year next year. I just can't believe the Minister of Agriculture said that, and I still can't believe he means it anymore. Because I ask myself a question, to whom it is being helped, whether it is helping Slavonia, reviving Slavonia, in this way discrimination against all other agricultural higher schools and universities in the Republic of Croatia. Not to mention all other universities in general, who guarantees that people who will study at the Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek will live in Osijek and Slavonia, whether those students who come here from Križevci, Međimurje, from Varazdin to Osijek, will study because of this good scholarship annually, whether they will then stay there and will not, in 99% of cases, return to their own parts, but will destroy the Faculty of Agriculture and higher education throughout Croatia. And I am locally affected by this statement, coming from the town of Križevci, a city where the oldest agricultural school in this part of Europe has been operating since 1860, the Križevci High School of Economics is a school from which some high, high colleges have actually formed, in the extreme case of colleges in agriculture. That school is going to fail this way. Is this neighborhood around the Crosses, around Bjelovar more developed than Slavonia? It's not. I'm not for Slavonia not to be helped, there's no one who won't help, but not to the harm of others, not to the harm of others. What kind of help is it if you take one to give it to another, it's not help, it's a hurtful flow of money. I call on Minister Tolusic, but also the whole council for Slavonia, to consider this decision, if we want to help already, and obviously this government wants to help Slavonia, and we all want to help Slavonia, then if we want to develop agriculture, if we want to revive this failed agriculture in Slavonia, then let's go find solutions to help further young farmers who will work in Slavonia, rather than go on a variant of how to destroy agricultural colleges that are not in Slavonia. I don't understand that approach. It's really a shame, I'm really asking and asking for it to be considered and stopped. This way it can't go. It's not a good policy, it's a policy of destroying the rest to help someone, such help to no one is welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123925	4th is a respected colleague, Branko Hrg, on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123926	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Last year we passed a third change of tax laws in that tax reform package, it referred to a reduction in VAT to a wider range of food supplies. At that time, the question and question of the effects of this measure was already raised, which has been well impoverished to say the state budget, and the question was also asked whether it would actually be better to focus those funds collected from VAT on some additional charges and some incentives to raise wages and in fact leave the VAT as it was on food or perhaps go to some general VAT reduction, VAT rates in total rather than just certain foods. We are now at the end of the 3rd month, it would be okay if the finance ministry with state bodies at its disposal to analyse the effect of reducing the VAT rate on food to see what happened. How many traders have reduced food prices, how much of it has been earned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, how much the domestic budgets of Croatian families have increased. According to the data available in January, this was not happening. The price of food didn't generally go down. Some decreased meat prices by 1.7%, some other products, generally a 0.8% reduction in food and a 13% reduction in VAT. And now I ask myself whether to let it go on and keep these millions, or billions of kunas, in the account of merchants, or make a new redesign, and simply find a solution to how this money if we already direct it towards Croatian families towards these families. I don't think it should wait too long to really make these calculations very quickly, see how many traders in the Republic of Croatia profited, how much more money they had left on their accounts and make some moves in legal solutions that would make it impossible for them to give to Croatian citizens, Croatian families. I don't think we've achieved that target effect, the merchants haven't broken down too much, and they've taken off their prices faster and made them so competitive, but things seem to have been arranged too quietly, so they've left the prices and continued to work on the same. The state ran out of billions of kunas or two, no more to the citizens' home budgets, no more to the merchants' accounts. Here is our club calling on the Ministry of Finance to really do one such analysis, to get to know the public and to react immediately, to stop this trend and do something with these money to direct the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to families and not to traders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123927	On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the other day I read a title in the media Krah reform, the Minister Divjak gives up the purchase of pills for each student, and in fact, it encouraged me to present on behalf of the club some thoughts on the subject, because in the adoption of a new Law on Primary Schoolship, we were just pointing to this problem and opposed the introduction of pills for lower-class students, because all the profession that deals with child development indicated that it was very harmful for the development of the child. And the fact that the minister, after a short time, has given up the introduction of pills for every child in the lower grade of primary school, we actually welcome and consider it to be wise treatment, not for saving money, not for saving money, but solely for the health of children and the development of children. And I think there should be more of those examples. If someone starts something, if he sees what he started, doesn't go in the right direction, so they can have harmful consequences, it's better in time to give up, than go further, on the wrong path. We also welcome the reintroduction of the sex and the names of the mother and father in the testimony of the children. It was absolutely one clumsy and reckless decision, unnecessary and really as people, as a club, as HDS in the end, we welcome that both the child's sex and the mother's father's name return to the testimony. We believe that these examples will be further, that when other ministers go into some process, some implementation of a new law or regulation, they will see that it is not going well, that there are no effects to be achieved, that they will react and intervene immediately, and that will change it, like, the case of effects, the reduction of VAT on food. I believe that this practice of making mistakes like this, which were obviously not in any bad sense, but they showed up, proved to be bad and should be changed very quickly. What's wrong, better to change than to keep doing what's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123929	I'd like to thank my colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123930	We are going to the 10th SDSS Representatives' Club debate, a respected colleague Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123931	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to use this time of free speech to say something about a subject that is life-threatening and concrete, so I'm not going to talk about spy affairs that are now shaking the public or about the purchase of warplanes or the situation in Vukovar. I will not talk about strengthening the Chetnik movement in Croatia nor about the state of the HRT which, as a public service, is suing its own journalists, which I do not consider to be a good phenomenon. This particular life situation refers to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have old foreign exchange savings, so those who have had old foreign exchange savings in banks based in the Republic of Serbia and who are ahead of a situation where the right to do so could be achieved, so the payment of old foreign savings has bureaucratic problems, lies ahead of a certain bureaucratic wall. It is clear that all countries so that even Croatia is not willing to pay the citizens compensation from some past transition times, so they are not willing to make a return to real estate, or even when there is a payment or a refund, then it will be in amounts that are ridiculous. Many of our citizens had foreign exchange savings during the former Yugoslavia in banks based in countries or other republics. Let's just remind ourselves of the problems and the case of the Ljubljanska banka where citizens have long struggled with Slovenia and the legal sequence of the Ljubljanska banka in order to achieve their savings in order to reach satisfaction through the European Court of Human Rights. 4.5 years almost, here, last year the data came out that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, were paid to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the old foreign exchange savings they had at the Ljubljanska Banka 160m euros, so 160m euros. It is not negligible money at all, so it is money paid to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Serbia has such a similar verdict. For the sake of the European Court of Human Rights' ruling, the Republic of Serbia had to pass and pass a law regulating its obligation to pay money to savings from former ones, so others, who are citizens of other former replicas, would be SFRY and the headquarters of these banks were in Serbia. So money is paid for them, those savings and it's about 310m euros somewhere, 310m euros. All countries except Croatia have made a decision in time to issue a certificate on the basis of which savings will be proved not to have received any right in their country, i.e. payment of money or any other right based on old foreign exchange savings other than Croatia. So all Slovenia and Macedonia and BiH and Montenegro. That is, Croatia did so at the end of last year, so last year, somewhere on 20.12., the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia was informed, and a few days later it was done on the website of the Ministry of Finance, that the certificates will be issued by Zagrebačka banka, Privredna banka Zagreb and the Croatian Economic Bank which is in bankruptcy. So which is not actually liquidated, just because it has an obligation to liquidate, that is, the South Bank legal sequence has an obligation to solve this problem. Citizens still have a problem getting confirmation from both Zagreb Bank and Privredna Banka Zagreb, especially from this bank in bankruptcy. And it will happen that the deadline, and the deadline is 23.2. so next month, in about a month, that citizens will not exercise their right to red tape.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123932	Thank you. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Milorad Pupovac, to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123934	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. A stand-alone Democratic Serb party's club read the news of an announcement by education, science and sports ministers that primary school students under a mandatory programme will be obliged to visit the Jasenovac area once a year. ... to the fact that last year 2017, so last year, only 9 schools visited this terrible site from the second St. The war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a fact, as well as the fact that last year, in 2018, more visitors were from the Republic of Italy, than from the Republic of Croatia, was extremely worrying, especially in the context of everything that is happening around us that children do not know what is right, which is not, whether the greeting "For Home Ready" is allowed or not, whether the enlargement of the constitution is allowed or not, such an announcement by the Ministry is a significant step and I hope that there will be another step in order that in the fourth month all together, all of us who need to be in the same column on the day of memory for the victims of Jasenovac. I announced myself because of one topic, it's a question of freedom of the media that partially wants to choke out of here from these benches of some of our colleagues, who are working journalists, in this case a journalist, a newspaper that does professionally its work, not wondering what circumstances they're working under, not asking whether this same owner properly respects the rights of journalists. It turns its conflict with the owner into a conflict with journalists, inconceivable and inadmissible. It would be about as if you were punishing a worker for working with a bad employer. I'd be no socialist then, dealing with a worker, not an employer. It is necessary to protect the journalistic profession, as well as the profession of a parliamentary representative, to protect the profession of a judge, as well as to protect the profession of teachers and teachers, and if there is something wrong with the system, then it is necessary to attack a place where it is wrong in the system. Another particularly worrying fact that the public media, whose founder of HRT, which we created the assumption, can be an independent public service, a public subscription system, a system of public donations, a system of privileged positions when it comes to advertising in relation to commercial media that only live out of it. We're getting the fact that in the last month we have 33 lawsuits against other media, the good part of which lives off the market. Why? Is it because they fought false news? No, I don't. Was it because they were fighting speech, spreading hate speech? No, I don't. The charges were filed not because someone noticed that there was someone spreading false news or hate speech or unprofessionally doing his job, but because someone noticed that in some cases there are elements of censorship. So where would we colleagues and colleagues be able to get our, our, our parties, our clubs, each and every one of us, something that's written in the media, then go to the point of defending our honor, our reputation, as HRT does. 33 charges in two months, that's why I and my club will think about banning the same HRT from mentioning our names and asking us for any statement because it's unfair what they're doing and inviting you to the other MPs and MPs when they're not already able.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123935	Thank you. Now a respected colleague of Dragana Jeckov's is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please. You speak to 10.35.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123937	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. The last few days, it has not been nice to read the headlines of the newspaper, a stamped-out girl from Split, a member of the Albanian national minority, attacked by Red Star water police, a match cancelled. The day after the incident on the main school led by messages of hate by Serbs, I hate the death of the police. It's all a picture of how much we've achieved as a society at a civilization level, accepting those that are different by nationality, religion or gender or different in any other way. The message is clear, the others and the different are undesirable, inappropriate and everything that starts with no. If, however, we are determined not to read or send such messages, we have a lot of work ahead of us, not a little easy, not a little fast work, but a hard and long-lasting one, because it is clear that we have strayed and lost the right way, when we receive or when such disturbing messages are sent from our country. Each of us has cause for concern and each of us needs to start by ourselves, with a question, what I did or did to apply it. In the sea of these worrying destructive and depressing news, one went almost undetected, however, it must not go unnoticed, but rather speak clearly and loudly enough because it is commendable. That's why I want to talk to you about that news that's not been said enough, which is why the jargon would say it went under the radar. Our scientists from the Ini Tuta Ruđer Boskovic recorded a message inviting girls and girls to join them in a scientific adventure, to become scientists every day, to enjoy new discoveries, because science is exciting and imaginative. Messages were sent on international days of women and girls of science marking 11.2. In their calculation, scientists explained that science enables them to constantly learn and adopt new knowledge and experience, it is a global character, so it has the opportunity to travel and meet new people and cultures. Every step taken in science is challenging and sometimes it takes a little more courage to practice science, but every new discovery is an indescribable pleasure. Also, there are less known data, data that are not said to be, that out of 880 total employees at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, 427 is a doctor of science, of which 246 doctors of science, which is a share of 58%. Of the 11 heads of the Institute, 4 are scientists, or 36%, while the proportion of women in the total number of laboratory leaders is 50%. According to the 2017 EUROSTAT data 59% of EU engineers are men, while 41% are women. According to the available data from EUROSTAT, the proportion of women in science within the Republic of Croatia is 48%, which is why Ruđer sets over the Croatian, European and world average. Like I said in a sea of information and statistics that puts us at the bottom of every ladder these are the data that give us hope. With these brave, smart and hardworking women, I congratulate their holiday with the desire to hear the messages they sent even louder, in fact to be loud enough to outvote everyone else and find their way to girls and girls. In the Republic of Croatia there are as many young scientists who have excellent conditions for work and progress and who will light up our country's face with the greatest desire to stay in the Republic of Croatia because they really want to. In addition to the scientists, I congratulate the young girl who helped to get out of the cold sea on Split's coast not to the brush, not to the Serb, not to the Montenegrin, not to the waterpoly, but to the man in trouble. I congratulate her on her courage, her humanity, and honestly, I'd love to meet her, drink coffee with her because she showed us that she's a hero, and that not everyone has forgotten what it means to give a hand of salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123938	Thank you. Let's move on, Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123939	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today I will talk about a subject, which I had already talked about earlier, when we had a debate on amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, given that I consider this topic important, I will speak today in my free speech, where I think it is important to warn of a bad and unfair bang that is applied daily and when it will not change the administrative bodies that are solving, when it will not change the courts, that it is necessary to change the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body. And it is about the fact that Croatian citizenship is challenged by persons who are actually Croatian citizens, whose parents were Croatian citizens, whose parents were Croatian citizens at the time of their birth. Our law on Croatian citizenship contains provisions on the acquisition of Croatian citizenship by origin, as well as I believe all citizenship laws in all democratic states. So the provisions say, for example, that children acquire Croatian citizenship, if at the time of their birth, both parents of Croatian citizens. Well then we have further variations on the subject, if one parent is a Croatian citizen at the time of birth, and the child was born in the Republic of Croatia or if one parent is a Croatian citizen, and the other is a parent of unknown citizenship or without citizenship, etc. etc. But what is undeniable, therefore, if at the time of birth both parents are Croatian citizens, children of Croatian citizens. Our law, when it was passed in '91. has prescribed that, at the moment of entry into force of the law, all who are then under applicable rules, in the Republic of citizenship, therefore, all who were citizens, of the Socialist Republic of Croatia, that they remained on the day of the entry into force of the law on Croatian citizenship of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So this law has inherited the Law on the Citizenship of the Socialist Republic of Croatia. And therefore, citizens of the then republican citizenship regardless of nationality, regardless of residence, became Croatian citizens. And this Law on Socialist Citizenship contained provisions on origin, therefore, acquisition of Croatian citizenship, origin and contained a provision, that citizens, that the child acquired citizenship, if his parents were Croatian citizens at the time of his birth. So, if both parents at the time of birth were citizens of the Socialist Republic and the child of other citizens, then, of republican citizenship, of the Socialist Republic. There were further variations on the subject, if one parent was a citizen of another republic, then there was a parent agreement, but it was undeniable, if both parents had the same citizenship, that citizenship was entered. In practice, mistakes happened, in practice, that a parent knew how to enroll the citizenship of the republic where the child was born, but it was a mistake. What do we have today? We have a situation today, that the administrative bodies dealing with such cases, and unfortunately the administrative courts, find that the child at the time of birth, if both parents were Croatian citizens, was a Croatian citizen, but 20 or 15 days later, when they enrolled him in the birth books, if the parent misrepresented the republican citizenship, then the child gained the citizenship of the other republic, then he is not a Croatian citizen. So I'm wondering, how is it possible, how is it possible that enrolment, and that wrong entry, becomes constructive, not declarative, something that should only be declarative, is today a fact that determines a person's life and determines citizenship, and it's a wrong entry. And that is what the state bodies who decide on it must be aware of, but we must also be aware of in the Parliament when we decide on the Law on Croatian Citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123940	Let's move on, now it's SDSS's Club of Representatives and dear colleague Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123941	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, perhaps today I should talk about the shameful transparency that celebrates the butchers in Split, but I have chosen another topic to talk about and which I am also often talking about, in fact, trying to raise awareness of the real state of affairs, break the prejudices and false perception that exists in the public on this issue, and it is about the employment of national minorities in the state administration. According to the latest report of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities sent by the government to this high home, the percentage of all minorities in the state service has dropped slightly, but it has fallen at 3.34%. According to data for 2015 and 2016 from the same report, the share of national minorities in that year was 3.4%, so for 2017, the share fell to 3.34%. Data for 2018 are still being collected and we can easily assume that this share of minorities will continue to fall. So when we look at the share of the population, when we look at the population and the proportion of minorities in the population of the Republic of Croatia is actually one of the most homogeneous, national most homogenous states in Europe, the share of all minorities is about 7.7%, so the government service staff is 3.4%. So not nearly 50% of that correlation. When we look at the number of Serbs, which are 4.36% as the largest minority in the population, so they are employed in the state service by 2.25%, so somewhere around 50%. When we look at the Roma for example, they're almost in the state service that there's no 0.02%. Here, this is a privilege and employment based on the right to the advantage that minorities can call upon and to which the public says they hire. Not so long ago, when we negotiated EU accession we promised and we adopted an action plan on the employment of national minorities in the state service, it was then promised that the 3 year action plan would reach a threshold of 5.5% in the employment of minorities, unfortunately not that percentage, but we are witnessing a fall. So we're still waiting for a proactive measure from the government to reverse the trend. In the autumn of 2016, a little more than 2 years ago, the SDSS Club had a press conference on this topic, where we asked for things to turn around, that we talked about the employment of minorities, and primarily Serbs in the public administration, then we were welcomed in public by the knife, both on the right hand and on the left, who now complained about what they were looking for, looking for privileges, looking for employment on the ethnic key, looking for chairs on the ethnic key, it's scandalous that they're looking for at this time, and we're actually trying all the time to show how justified our demands are. And our demands are based on both the Constitutional Law and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, which we ratified in '97, which says that the measures the state takes in terms of protecting a national minority, so these measures and measures of positive discrimination actually do not discriminate against anyone because these measures are affirmative, affirmative actions where one social group is actually trying to equate with everyone else in society. But who cares about employment, who cares about the Constitutional Law and respect for the Convention that we ratified in 1997, if, here, the SDSS if they're asking for a job on an ethnic key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123942	Let's move on, now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123943	I thank the esteemed president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, today I will talk about a positive project and I believe that from this booth we should talk about both what is good and what is positive. Unemployment is a complex social problem, and in general unemployment, it is especially necessary to highlight women's unemployment as a problem. So today it's almost 54.5% of unemployed women. The position of women in the labour market remains worse than men's positions, and problems with employers arise when it comes to motherhood and exposure to sexual harassment, as well as insecure working conditions. Women in the labour market face multiple discrimination and more than other groups are threatening social exclusion as a result of long-term unemployment. It was precisely the social exclusion of women and the exclusion of older people that was an initial link to the basic idea of the project “Spense”. The "Sensus" programme provides support for access to the labour market and employment of women in an unfavourable position on the labour market, thus easing the consequences of unemployment and the risk of poverty. Certainly social inclusion and integration of the quality of life for, unfortunately, many older and powerless persons. The "Require" programme is in line with European and national recommendations to improve women's labour market position and the protection of women's rights, as well as with policy guidelines for the employment of EU Member States. The "Wish" programme includes all three core priorities of the European Social Fund, so, employment, social inclusion and education, and three pillars that enable quality and inclusive life in the community. This programme, worth a billion kuna, financed by the European Social Fund under the Operational Programme Effective human potential. In the area of the entire Republic of Croatia, it was planned to employ 7.5 thousand women who would work in support, support and care jobs for nearly 30,000 elderly people and persons in an unfavourable position in their households, and not in institutions of care. At the same time, women are also provided with additional education for occupations that are deficited in their local community, which will provide them with greater employability in the labour market after their work has been completed. The originally planned funds for this call amounted to 400,000 kuna, increased in the second month of 2018 to a total of €400,000. The fact is that so far they have been financially, that this is the most issued call within the European Social Fund, and that it has awakened a great interest in, in contrast to the number of proposals submitted and shows that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System is placing this activity as a great need and that they have therefore recognised the units of local self-government and non-profit organisations. So, according to the data so far, 28 decisions have been made on the financing of grants for 274 projects totalling 952 million 892 thousand, of which almost as much grants have been made. The projects in question employ 5705 women, who therefore tour and provide assistance and support for 27146 elderly people who are in, therefore, this invisible position. When selecting projects to be financed under that call, the emphasis is of course placed on hard-to-reach areas, rural and islands, and on areas where the unemployment rate and the long-term unemployment rate are higher than the Croatian average, so that is the area of the east, the area of Banija and Kordun. Among the top 5 counties by the number of contracted projects of women employed, the most significant is Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska, Split-Dalmatia, Sisak-Moslavina and Brod-Posavina. Now that after about a year of implementation of the "Wishful" programme, we are certain that there are some observed shortcomings, but there are still multiple advantages that are being achieved by its realization. Since I am closely following this topic because it is happening in areas where the population of Serbian nationality lives, I am often in contact with JLS leaders in which the programme "Wish" is implemented. All in all, this good and A quality project should have its follow-up. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123944	Thank you. Now, I'd like to call on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123946	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The issue of the Oilics, for the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, as I believe for any of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, is a difficult issue. The difficult question since it has so far seemed to Uljanik and the failures made so that the Uljannik and other Croatian shipyards do not get into the situation that they have come to, and the question is what to do, that there is no end point, which means that production in the Uljannik and activity in the Uljanik and other shipyards stops, and that the Republic as a country at sea, with the tradition of a strong shipyard and a shipbuilding industry becomes without any shipyard. To be left without any shipyard, as someone here has said, in today's circumstances, after the collapse, many industrial components of our society and such a country, is a symbolic point that is politically very, very difficult to explain. And those who had nothing to do with it and those who had nothing to do with it. And those who had no contact with it, as well as those who had all kinds of contact in this regard. In this sense, making a decision and making a decision is certainly not a simple matter for the government or for diameter, restructure or go bankrupt? Both sides have their own bad sides. I'm going to say something about restructuring. The restructuring and subsidisation jobs so far differ from those from those from the former state and countries that some people have mentioned now like France and Germany, it is a state that controls its money and controls its subsidy policy and for which it is known what the purpose is, the preservation of competitiveness, the preservation of knowledge, one nation, one country versus another, including the safety component. And what kind of restructuring has we served for years? Privatisations, uncontrollable ways, uncontrollable conduct in spending state money. People who have been given authority from the state to restructure and use state money. And that's why the state reached out to the mechanism, that some people need to answer in the oil case. Of course, these people, whether they're all yesterday or some of them, I don't know the club I belong to, let the state determine it. But, knowingly, this type of restructuring subsidy must not be continued must be clear, regardless of what decision the government will make. I'd rather have my club make a decision that gives me a chance to keep something of the Oilies. But we'll discuss it somewhere else. What's being raised as a question and what as a member of the ruling coalition, I can't talk from this pay phone. If people who have been irresponsibly available by means provided by the State for the Oil and for the 3rd May, they should be responsible. What about those people who run the other shipyards? Where has the findings of state audits been for several years, they talk about the unintended use of state subsidies in the restructuring process, especially those that now appear as a possible rescuer of the Oilies and have this kind of reference? We expect universal justice from the state in everything. Even in this. Universal political brains and even in this, because this is the only way we can convince that the government is not working partyically, that it is not working on the principle of this or that region, and we can convince that the government is doing what the citizens expect. And in that sense, we will support everything that is best for the state's policy when it is in the middle of the state's money and we will support what is best for the interests of the Uljanik workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123947	Thank you. We're going to the 5th club. SDSS representative club, respected colleague Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123949	The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Last week in the Parliament, I would begin to congratulate all of Croatia, all citizens who have managed to raise more than the necessary money for the treatment of small Mile Roncevic, whom I wish for successful treatment and hopefully, finally healing. I hope that the banks that took payment fees will also do as our citizens did. What I would be talking about today is something that has actually been going on for 20 years, which is a transition problem of society, a war legacy, which is in various stages, where there have been various types of unfair solutions, so there has never been justice, and unfortunately this problem appears as current today. So I'm being approached by citizens with a problem that cities where they live or where they lived are removing the ruins of their mined houses, so it's about houses that were mined in 91s and 92s. It is mainly citizens, not exclusively, but mostly Serbian citizens. These people today are charged with having to pay the cost of removing those ruins. In one particular case, I have an example of a woman, co-owners of such a house, she's co-owner in one third where she got an account of 20,000 kuna, she no longer lives in that town but next to, one small municipality, she has a small pension, now you can think what that means to her. So, such houses are mined, she and her similar examples have never received any compensation damage, no kind of compensation, no procedures that they started to achieve any damages, have lost, litigations have been lost precisely for the reason that this House of Commons has abolished the legal provisions for which they could exercise some right to compensation for damages. So, the lawsuits were lost, they had to pay the litigation costs, they were sent to initiate the procedure, the administrative procedure, the renewal procedure, they were also rejected. Therefore, none of them have exercised the right to rebuild, with the right because the Restitution Act does not regulate such cases and we have a situation where their property has been destroyed, that they have not received any compensation, that they have lost the litigation and all the proceedings they have initiated, that they have had to pay the litigation costs, and now we have come to the situation that eventually and the city is burdening them with the costs of removing the ruins of their mined houses in which they once lived. I find it deeply unfair, that it is deeply discriminatory and that such practice should be interrupted. It is not good and it is not fair for such solutions to be broken through citizens who were clearly victims of the system. Cities demand that the ruins be removed for purposes, with reasons for the safety of passersby, neighbours and all other citizens. I agree. I need to remove the ruins and understand the interest of the city, for the safety of the citizens, and make the city look more orderly. But it is not good for such solutions to be imposed and broken over the back of those who have actually been victims and who have suffered injustice all these years. Who didn't get any satisfaction. In no way. With such citizens, we only create feelings and deepen the sense of injustice. That is why we will fight as a party and ask for such practice to be interrupted and cities to remove the ruins, but at their own expense. So I'm ordering them, remove the buildings, destroy the buildings, ask for the owner's consent, but do a good thing, do it at your expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123950	Now it's time for my colleague, Marin Schibola, to be an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123951	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123952	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There are only two weeks ahead of us, two memorials, two memorial gatherings. One Japanese, one Bleiburg. Obama's gatherings are the patron of this House. But the relationship to these two gatherings, this Croatian Parliament as a sponsor, is not the same. According to this first, Jasenovska, the Croatian Parliament acts as if it were not a patron in the true sense of the word. According to this second, the Croatian Parliament acts as if it were a true and dedicated patron. Why do I say that from this place? Because, after the decision of the Austrian world and church authorities, to ban a gathering in Bleiburg in the way it has been held so far, all the authorities in Croatia and church and secular and executive and representative, have done everything possible to negotiate the assumptions that this meeting is being held, agreeing to respect Austrian laws, which prohibit greatness, fascists, in this case Ustasha ideas, signs, symbols and messages. In our country, the same laws are in force. They're in effect before they became a force in the Republic of Austria, when this thing is done. The provisions of the Constitution are in force, the ruling of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, on the case of Slatinski Drenovac municipality, where one street was named on April 10th, according to which the Constitutional Court made it clear, as is thought of the regime, as is thought of that movement and as far as these ideas are concerned, as these symbols are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123953	Dear colleague Glasnović, I ask you nicely, do not disturb a fellow representative to speak, please welcome fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm not sure you should keep talking. This offends the dignity of all those for whom we will gather in Jasenovac on Friday, without representatives, official, representative of the Parliament and official representative of the government, because what we heard was a picture of Croatia. Croatia that is more willing to respect other people's laws than its own. Croatia, which is more ready to fight to create assumptions, to commemorate those who have left bloody traces behind of people who have done nothing to anyone. For in Jasenovac, as many have already said, they are not guilty of any of the dead on Tenza, the Horn of Kočev or Macele. But many in the Terrestrial Horn and Macel are guilty, for tens and hundreds of thousands of those who are all over, so to speak. independent Croatian states were killed only because they were Roma, Jews, Serbs and opponents of the regime, Croatian anti-fascists or anti-fascists of other nationalities. And we rather than commit ourselves to it, instead of applying our laws, we tolerate, in our country, a renewed conflict on the issues of the 2nd World War. Instead of closing the war page either in the '40s. It was the '90s. In the best way possible and that we, on the one hand and on the other hand, bring it down into the real contexts and turn the victims' places into places to fight every militarism, every war, every religious, ethnic, political exclusion, we do the opposite. We respect other people's laws, not our own. We respect those who have contributed to suffering, and we do not respect those who have suffered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123955	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pupovac. I would also ask my colleague Pupovec and my colleague Glasnović and all present, colleagues and colleagues not to share on these subjects on the victims and not to share again with the works of the victim, crime is a crime, no matter where it comes from.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123956	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Dragana Jeckov, out front, will present the views of the SDSS's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123957	I thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, guidelines and suggestions from the Ministry of Education were presented, so-called a new network of primary schools in Vukovar Srijem County. And now, nothing would have been unusual, if those guidelines hadn't caused shock and infidelity, with present mayors and mayors, but also their unique reaction, which we haven't really had a chance to hear in a long time. No, no and no, he was the answer regardless of party or nationality. According to these guidelines in the county, all primary schools with fewer than 150 pupils will be closed over the coming years. Practically, since 41 schools founded by Vukovar Srijem County, they will be closed 16. Thirty-seven small district schools will also be closed. I must say, this is the kind of salon that makes important decisions without special concern about the consequences, we haven't had a chance to see it in a long time. Such a strategy shows that everything is viewed as cold and calculated, obviously not thinking about what the school's shutting down actually means for one village and what the consequences are for the village. If we were to think or at least have some experience, and we wouldn't just look at numbers, then we would know that this kind of school shut down actually means a very fast death for the village, because these schools are the center of cultural social and sports life in small areas. Such a move will only speed up the eviction we have been exposed to for years. Of course, there are no letters in the guidelines on schools attended by members of national minorities, on their specificities, on the requirements for the transfer of founding rights which the units of local self-government requested in 2016 precisely to protect them from such and similar decisions. In doing so, it is important to say, that we talk about 1567 students who attend class according to model A. If we thought about it then we would find ways to let these schools live however possible, even at the cost of greater losses. They would look for ways to fill the same schools and somehow return to those villages. We've had countless times to see how the state has money for everything and everything, and when it comes to children, so many times they're called, there's no money, because there's got to be an economic aspect. I've been thinking and I've been wondering, I've been thinking and I wonder what's going to happen when and what little young parents are going to do, they're moving even more intensively because of the closure of the district schools. How to organise, for example, the transport of students of champions or students in the second grade, because they, just to remind, use public transport, which is also not in line with standards. What happens when the flood of a technological surplus occurs at the Department of Employment in the form of teachers, professors, staff in those schools, will the economic aspects of these guidelines be seen then? Well, maybe it's true they're not rentable. Well, haven't we financed so many failed and non-performing projects so many times, anyway, you shouldn't think about it that way. How is it possible that schools and the future of our children, their education, can be incomprehensible from an economic aspect. So it's all upside down. First, in these villages, we build schools, rebuild, equip them, and now we shut them down, because someone remembered that they were inert from an economic aspect. So almost incredible, like in the land of Dembelia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123958	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123959	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Like every time we have our first day working on the plenary session in the week, we start discussing clubs, free speech. The first is the club of representatives of IDS, PGS, and RI and respected colleague Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123960	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Although the IDS, PGS and RI Club had already pointed out this problem a little over a month ago, I was forced to repeat it for a simple reason that it was almost 60 million kunas of unused EU funds co-financed through the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2020 and no one reacted in the meantime. For a measure of 721 of the Istarska Vodavod programme, as a municipal company which manages the water supply system of most of the Istrian peninsula, the project technical documentation is needed in time and requested the necessary opinions. These included the opinion of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, or the Environmental Impact Assessment and Sustainable Management of waste by the same ministry on the need for an assessment procedure, on the need for an environmental impact assessment. Although the name of the document and the procedure is quite complex, it was actually a very simple procedure that was based more on form than on content given the type of project. So 14 projects that were to build a new water supply network in rural Istria, including cities and municipalities with mountainous mountain status, were not realised because of insufficient engagement and I would dare say the irresponsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Because how else do you explain that the opinion in question comes only 13 minutes before the project application is closed, although requests for the same have been sent to the resolution ministry 35 days before. On the importance of building a water supply network in rural Istria, which has an increase of between 20% and 30% of tourist arrivals and overnight stays each year, constant growth in the extension before and after the season, and an increasingly significant increase in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship should not be spent too much on words or on the fact that any investment in particular in the construction sector directly affects the growth of the economy. So more than a month had to send practical formal opinions to the ministry for 60 million kuna projects that would be financed by EU funds and when opinions finally arrived, it was 13 minutes until the deadline of application. And now we in Istria are wondering what is the goal of this approach to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and who will be responsible for the fact that such large and important projects have not realised more than the state in them would earn. Yes, it earns because projects would largely be co-financed by European funds and, on the other hand, through such investments, develop the area, thus creating additional economic growth and employment, which generates everything and increases tax revenues in the state register. Therefore, to conclude, our club invites the Government of the Republic of Croatia to review the whole process through the resolution ministries responsible for the implementation of the rural development programme and to allow the projects in question to be accepted, given that they had all the necessary documentation except those they could not possibly influence but had an impact on the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy. Otherwise, we will consider that the reason for all of this is either the irresponsibility and the lack of interest of the Ministry of Project Implementation or the intentional exclusion of projects from Istria. And in that case, it's very worrying and totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123961	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123962	We are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, the first Mr. Giovanni Sponza is in front of the club IDS, PGS and LRI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123963	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking a question. Has the Government developed a concrete plan with active measures to protect the common national interests including potential problems that will arise in our tourism if the UK exits the EU? On behalf of the club two months ago, I pointed out the possible tightening of the visa regime for British guests prior to the exit of Great Britain from the EU, which can have negative consequences for both our tourism and our economy. We see that the situation around Brexit is still very uncertain. And we still have fresh negative experiences when visas for the Russians were announced a few years ago. The profession from the tourism sector then proposed a series of active and concrete measures to make visas easier and faster, thus facilitating the whole procedure. The epilogue of everything was the loss of a large number of Russian guests, a negative financial impact on our tourism, and it was mainly in the segment of the most expensive offer and thus on our economy. At that time, we were forced to seek an appropriate replacement of the United Kingdom market was a logical choice. Today, it's like we're facing a similar challenge again. Tour operators, air carriers, tourism sector specialists from the United Kingdom warn that uncertainty around Brexit has already produced negative effects. Not only has the pound weakened, the money is not spent for uncertainty about Brexit. So the issue that is being imposed on itself whether the Government has a concrete plan with active measures aimed at avoiding the potential scenario that hit us after entering the EU, which forced the implementation of the visa regime towards Russian guests. It is up to the government authorities to do everything to avoid repeating the same negative scenario. For this very reason, to show that we have learned our club's lesson for the second time draws attention to a possible problem that can happen again. In order to avoid a potential scenario, we propose several options to mitigate a possible problem. The best option would be a quick and efficient e-visa issue, then the possibility of obtaining a tourist visa when landing at airports in the Republic of Croatia. And that in time the opening of active visa centres will be planned that will be able to serve the most significant broadcasting destinations from the United Kingdom towards Croatia. For example, in Russia, we currently have 18 active visa centres. I note that the United Kingdom is our seventh most important market in Croatia, that last year they realized more than 4.4 million overnights. And it wouldn't do any good if there was a tightening of the visa regime for British guests that we had to look for a replacement for the British in someone else. So, finally, I repeat the question, is the Government working out a concrete plan with active measures to protect the overall national interests, including those potential problems that will arise in our tourism if the UK exits the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123964	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123965	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Like every time this week, we start discussing clubs. The first reported today, we have 11 registered, and the first reported by a respected colleague, Emil Daus, on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123966	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the end of last year, the majority passed a new Law on the mountainous mountainous area. During the debate, many remarks have been made that it is general and has no concrete measure whatsoever and will be aware of the sub-legislative acts adopted by the government or the restoring ministry. One of the most important such sub-legislative acts, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, referred to e-consultation, training, coverage and classification of local self-government units that acquire mountainous mountain areas status. Unfortunately, as it is a government act, and not a council, we do not have the opportunity to discuss it in more detail in this assembly, but I will look back on several important facts. It is commendable that the proposal has increased the number of units of local self-government, but it is in no way good, that several of them will lose their status so far. In fact, we're afraid the same mistake as the development index will happen again. According to the proposal for a decision, 47 cities and municipalities that have not had that status so far are expected to get the same, but to lose 7 of them, of which 3 are from northern and internal Istria. These units of local self-government, as recently, like to joke on their residents,... I don't care... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] or, from the hilly landscapes of the plains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order for the absurd to be larger, it will happen with that status will lose municipalities and cities that are indeed located in the hilly area, and some that are located by the sea. I'd like you to have a few colleagues and colleagues transport you to the roads of Buzescina, Motovunščina, Gračascina, to hundreds of their scattered villages and villages, so... on which because of the bottled terrain, every winter is a glider or a dive, so that you can see for yourself whether it's a hilly area or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Take you to a fellow mayor and mayor, to show you how much more it costs to build and maintain municipal and social infrastructure in such areas than those in the flat-rate section. As a result of the configuration of the terrain and the type of soil, it is more difficult for farmers to make contributions by the same unit, the area compared to those in the flat-rate section. Not to mention 20 million kn per year of direct self-cut revenue that has not been in the local budgets, the last 5 years since the amendment of the former Law on the mountainous mountainous area entered into force. But I believe that there is a solution that everyone can be content with. Our Advocacy Club sees that the status of mountainous mountainous areas retains all units of local self-government, which had it so far, since it is only 7 cities and municipalities that have lost their status according to the new proposal. If it could have been the new 47 cities and municipalities that got mountain mountain status we don't see the reasons why we're out of those 7 that sent from the hills overnight the plains still don't keep that status. On the one hand, this will not have much impact on the overall system of municipalities of cities with mountain status, neither functionally nor financially, and on the other, it will be of great help to those who would lose that status by their proposed decision. We think that this will in one correct way reach a compromise that will satisfy everyone, and those who have so far had mountainous mountain status and those who will receive it by this act. We therefore propose to the resolution ministry that it accept this proposal, and thus at least partially help these parts, we will do the same in a direct way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123967	Okay, now we're going to, the time has come for popular breaks or applications to make a statement on behalf of the Representatives and Independent Representatives Club. He's the first in front of the IDS-PGS-RI club, Mr. Tulio Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the topic of my current exposure, is the long-standing problem of paying a TV fee to meet a large number of carriers. That fee for all carriers, and especially for those who have a higher number of vehicles, represents a large, and can be freely said, unwarranted cost burden. What's certainly unwarranted is that the fee is paid per vehicle. This practice is particularly prohibited by international transport operators, given that their vehicles are mainly located abroad where technical conditions are not provided for receiving RTTV programmes, and in vehicles they have a radio receiver due to the legal obligation of some countries, for example, for safety in transport. The legal basis for payment of the RTV fee is found in the Croatian Radio Television Act, which provides that owners of radio and television receivers in the area of the Republic of Croatia are required to pay the fee to HRT, and the obligation to pay the same is abolished when the owner logs out the receiver. What I particularly want to point out is that there is no equal treatment for everyone, and it is our obligation to just fight that everyone has the same or equal treatment. If in certain activities, e.g. For 4 receivers, pay one subscription, why not apply the same to vehicles? The question is, why is this how you cut off the transporters, especially those who have multiple vehicles? Namely, a single vehicle carrier pays 80,00 kn per month, which is almost 1,000.00 kn per year. Now let's imagine the situation of that carrier that has multiple vehicles. Is it also necessary to impose such a high cost burden on carriers in addition to all other operating costs they are dealing with on a daily basis? We should be aware of the fact that many carriers are unable to pay minimum salaries to their employees, and many are increasingly struggling with finding the workforce, so the tv tax per vehicle is an additional cost burden. We talk about people who are daily, every day on the road, morning, day, night and who work in most cases use, or to hear the state of the roads and weather forecasts or to keep them awake. The radio receiver is almost 100% turned on and listened only out of need. Shouldn't it be fairer for legal entities engaged in international road transport activities, the obligation to pay a subscription when registering a vehicle and the amount of one monthly subscription, i.e. 80,00 kn per vehicle, and that amount is paid once a year. This cost burden is not really justified because I do not see the point of imposing on our carriers, with all the heavy costs of business, even the costs of the subscription that many of them are making due to minimum earnings, they cannot bear, and they are shutting down their businesses accordingly. I don't think it's ours, and it shouldn't be our goal. We keep hearing about the reduction of burdens for our entrepreneurs, so let's put this example into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123969	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123970	We're going to the IDS, PGS and RI Club now. Dear fellow Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123971	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to briefly refer to President Grabar Kitarovic's statement of greeting for home ready and her obvious intention to put her wrong moves on her advisors. Two years ago, the president made clear her position on the Ustasha greeting For home ready, by answering the journalistic question, that it was an old Croatian greeting. The president then said so, because she probably believes that at that point, it is politically appropriate, as it does in a number of other situations, when it depends on the occasion and the audience, which she addresses adjusts her statements and watches. We all remember last March, when the president was in Argentina, where she gave a speech in which members of the Ustasha movement, who had fled to the country after the 2nd World War, called the patriots who sought freedom there. On the other hand, when he comes to Istria, for example, he speaks about his note and note, about the partisan who participated in the anti-fascist movement and what she is particularly proud of. Such behaviour, the person acting as President of the Republic, is extremely unworthy. I have to say, I really don't know if it's worse, that the president of the state is changing his mind from today to tomorrow or that he's gone. Now that the president has finally established that the Ustasha greeting, the Ustasha greeting, now that the neighbouring states have had to vote the laws, which punish any promotion of Ustasha symbols, now that the Attorney General has also said that the state government is responsible for the tolerance of the constitution, is not it time to finally do something about it. Isn't it time to tell the whole world that the 2nd World War ended in Croatia as well. I wonder how a person who does not know the basic historical facts or knowingly distorts them, depending on the occasion in which he finds himself, can at all act as President of the Republic. In the case of a Member The constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the president represents and represents the Republic of Croatia in the country and abroad, unfortunately in the case of the current president, we can say that Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic is degraded by the institution of the president of the country and abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123972	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now move to deliver a position on behalf of the club and will be the first to speak on behalf of the club IDS, PGS and LRI, the esteemed representative of Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123973	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the club IDS, PGS and LRI, we consider it necessary to react to the content of the list of lectures in the new Croatian curricula. The general impression is that a new list is made in principle we have to do something that will look revolutionary and attractive. Something has been done but it has actually proved that there is no courage, will, knowledge, and ultimately neither desire nor time to take responsibility for creating a professionally designed and so eagerly expected modern list of booklets. The most revolutionary to express myself in this new list is the division of selective works into mandatory and electoral works, which clearly shows how it was intended to satisfy the form and discharge of students, for example in the gymnastics programme from the previous 12 to 16 programme titles per year for the full reading of certain 5, 6 as mandatory and seems to have long been announced and requested discharge. However, this is only seemingly so because it remains 5 to 6 acts that the professor alone or in agreement with the students can choose from the proposed recommendation. In doing so, a large number of works that have been considered canonical have been placed on the list of electoral works, and this should not be so because it implies that some students will not meet at all because their teacher decided. On the other hand, it calls for the list of books to be approached by new generations of students to be untraced because there are not even an extended list of electoral works but only a few modern, living authors on both sides and domestic literature. And it is precisely these authors that should be defined at national level so that teachers do not stray in their choice but to avoid the labeling of teachers to choose works according to their own subjective criteria. It is precisely this division of mandatory and electoral works and has caused a public storm because what is left to choose is perceived by the public as what is not to be read and not to be read. Finally, this will sometimes be so because in the general underestimation of the teaching profession and the decline of the motivation of the teacher’s staff, not to mention the general lack of professional teacher’s staff due to the inattractiveness of that profession, it will happen that individual teachers will experience and interpret what is elected as not necessary. If education and education is an item of national interest and we will all agree that, then it is of national interest to reach a consensus on what the canon is and which should not and should not be given up and which must not be left to choose because if something is left to choose, it means that it can but not. So to conclude, some important works will certainly not be read because they will depend on the worldview of professors which can further deepen ideological differences in society. The implementation of reforms has come down to speed and not to quality, i.e. It is an important form in this case that starts the school year, not the quality of learning and teaching. This testifies to us about the unserious implementation of the reform or on the other hand, we do not know what we want or what our goal is. All we know is that it has to be written down that the reform has been carried out. In fact, the fundamental question should be how to level the education for which it will long-term form a humanist and educated citizen, a conscious right and a duty based on critical thinking because everything else is just a form rather than a reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123974	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123975	We will now briefly interrupt the debate on this bill, on the report, on the apology, and will move on to a statement on behalf of the Clubs of Representatives and Independent Representatives. First, it is Mr Tulio Demetlika's turn to present the position of the IDS, PGS and RI Club. It's a good thing you found the papers, now you can access the speech itself, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. But it's always good to have a reminder that we know what we're saying. My colleagues and colleagues, I report on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI Club, in order to, I don't know for what time, to warn about the incompetence of the law that we are passing in this HS and I want to draw attention again to the fact that it is only important for this government to establish laws and that it is not at all considering the effectiveness of the law. It is important that they are praised that they have passed new laws, that they have brought them into line with EU laws, however, on the effectiveness of these laws in practice we do not set out how to evaluate it? Moreover, there is often no analysis of the results of the laws passed because we do not have the opportunity to see whether the adoption of a law has been successful or not. And as the freshest example, I refer to the following situation. On the website of the National Journals 18.2.2019, the Law on easing and removing the consequences of natural disasters was published. Subject law came into force in 16.2.2019, and in transitional and final provisions, the law prescribed that action plans for 2019 were to be adopted by the representative body of local and regional units (regional) of self-government and the City of Zagreb City Assembly by the end of February 2019. To just mention that the legislation for an action plan must contain a list of measures and carriers in the event of a natural disaster, an assessment of the insurance of equipment and other means of protection and prevention of property loss, economic function and population loss, under three other measures involving cooperation with the competent authorities of this law and/or other bodies, scientific institutions and experts in the area of natural disasters. In other words, to make it more clear to all than the publication of the law on the websites, until the expiry of the deadline for the adoption of an action plan by the representative body, only 10 days remained for the preparation of the action plan in question, the preparation of materials for the city council, the calling and holding of a session of the city council, the debate at the session and the adoption by the city council. There is no point in even talking about conducting a consultation on the draft action plan with the interested public. I'm going to ask you a few questions now? Does the ministry's bureaucracy take care of the deadlines and possibilities of implementing the passed laws, does anyone in this country think about bringing local self-government units into a situation where they are physically impossible to enforce laws and what message does this government send by setting such a short period of time? I think it sends a message that we have laws that satisfy their form, and there are no reforms, and in the field, we still have problems left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123977	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It's Wednesday, the first day of the plenary session, so we know we're gonna have a club debate first. And the first is the club of representatives of IDS, PGS and RI, a respected colleague of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123978	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will speak the name of the Club on whether it is possible to build long-term competitive tourism in a non-competitive state. This issue will be supported by key problems that produce negative effects, which make Croatian tourism uncompetitive. We don't have a clear, long-term tax framework. The VAT in tourism has changed 4 times since 2011. The frequent change in VAT has created a feeling of mistrust with the state among all those involved in tourism. Croatia has the highest VAT rate within the Mediterranean competitive circle. Thus, the high tax press limits both investment and salary increases. We don't have an enforceable law on tourist land. The law has not resolved the fundamental question, the status of the holder of ownership. The unclear situation around tourist land is a major obstacle to investment dynamics, some facilities need several years to round up particles to obtain construction and, due to a vague situation, a very small number of companies have signed a concession contract. The structure of the accommodation facilities is uncompetitive. Today, only 16 to 17% of the capacity in hotels and settlements is lower than in 1990 when it was 23%. We are significantly lagging behind key competitors such as Italy, Greece, Spain, in which the stake is 2.5 to 4 times larger. On the other hand, on the coast, we allow for the impact on valuable resources, allowing for illegal construction on valuable agricultural land. And a very important lack of labour. The key to success in tourism is man. Today, on the one hand, we have a growing need for labour, and on the other hand, the departure of young people abroad, the fall of birth and the ageing of the population. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatia has an immaterial element of a competitive advantage that is highly appreciated today and that is security and that is important. But we need to realise that tourism accounts for about 20% of the shares in Croatia's GDP, which is the largest share in the EU. The government does nothing, the government has to move, the government has to turn the problem into a challenge and provide Croatia with necessary and necessary tourism but not tomorrow. And this long-term predictable, stable and competitive tax framework will stimulate a sustainable model with objectives. In the first order of detention as well as the arrival of prominent and long-term investors. Maintaining and attracting labour by increasing wages, investing in new products, investing in high value added products, investing in small family hotels. Solve the issue of tourist land by encouraging investment, creating new added value, retaining and opening jobs, creating new incomes, solving pointless debt and expensive court disputes. And to conclude, the government has to keep the hands that feed the state budget because otherwise, I thus paint every stronger flu will be a blow to both tourism and the Croatian economy as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123979	We're going to another debate, IDS, PGS, and RI's esteemed colleague, Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123980	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of Cuba IDS, PGS and RI, I will talk about the development of the situation around the group's Oil Group ahead of the next government session to decide on the fate of our largest shipbuilding company and thus the entire shipbuilding industry in Croatia. There is no doubt that the only correct political decision is to go into restructuring the group's Oil Group with a new strategic partner. The oil needs to be given a chance just as the rest of Croatia's shipyards did. To all those who see the alternative in bankruptcy that they might want to show the alleged concern for public finances, I say that this option would cost almost the same as restructuring, as opposed to jeopardising the existence of several thousand households and be sure to gradually shut down the entire shipbuilding industry in Croatia. It is clear to all that the future of the Oilies is in the hands of the government, and the undecided government is constantly delaying the decision-making process. It is incomprehensible that the government has been stalling for more than half a year with possible solutions, and the saddest thing is for 1,000 workers who are increasingly struggling to survive without pay from day to day. I don't know what time I'm reminding you that the government is the largest individual owner of a company she hasn't controlled and has issued guarantees without ever asking for business books for insight. Not only were they not overseeing management all those years, but when we warned that something was happening and that there were obviously serious problems in Ulnik no one had responded for months. The oil is a typical example of how the government refers to its assets, to a company where through its ownership structure it has all the levers of governance and influence, if it is difficult for the Government to make that decision, I call on the chairman to put the issue in the agenda. Should Croatia kill shipbuilding? I'm sure there's a consensus because I don't want to believe there are any MPs among us who would be willing to shut down one entire industrial branch for any reason. After all, if there was a debate in the assembly about the future of private companies, I don't see why we shouldn't discuss an enterprise whose country is the largest individual co-owner. Finally, I will refer to the statement by the vice president of the assembly and the deputy president of the HDZ, Mr. Millian Brkic. I remind Mr. Brkic that Istria has the lowest unemployment rate, the largest number of investment investments and that we are the only region where the population's migration rate is higher than the emigration rate and one of the three counties that fill the state budget. While the pattern of HDZ rule has contributed to the fact that the counties in which the HDZ government is most underdeveloped with the highest unemployment rate and with a large exodus of the population. So I suggest you copy the IDS model management because the Istrian GDP that is in the Czech and Slovak ranks is the IDS management model. While Croatia's GDP, which is among the lowest in the EU, is a form of HDZ rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123981	The first club to ask for a position is the IDS, PGS and RI Club, on their behalf will be represented by a representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123982	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. A consultation on the Proposal for a Water Services Act has been completed. In response to the comments given in the framework of the consultation, the applicant exclusively limited himself to a formalist approach without serious analysis of the impact of the law. Given that this bill allows for the unification of public water services companies, we need to know now whether privatisation is planned in the next step. I remind you that the water is generally good and that we are all bound by the Constitution to protect the common good. I also remind you that water supply infrastructure is being built and maintained through the resources of citizens. I recall that the HDZ government tried to privatise the water in its 2007-2011 term but gave up. Only after a strong reaction and opposition from the Croatian Bishop's Conference. Therefore, it would be no surprise for us to try this again because it is not said in vain that "the sound of the hair changes but never." colleagues and colleagues, we have learned that the HDZ Government is almost on all important topics, on all important legislative proposals, primarily on technical issues and on content and Crucial issues by sublegal acts that are exclusively and solely in the government's authority. When the HDZ Government does not consult the profession on important issues and laws, when it comes to a hasty emergency procedure, the issue that imposes itself is whether something is right behind the hills, so I ask very clear and unequivocal questions to the government. Is the Government planning to privatise water resources and what is the government's position on privatising water supply and thus water services in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123983	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123984	Now since it's one hour, as usual we're going to take a stand on behalf of the club, we have two clubs have applied and the first one is the IDS-PGS-RI on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123985	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, everyone in the Republic is talking about young people, how we need educated people, and that we should keep young people in our country. On the other hand, all studies, surveys, analyses suggest that young people do not trust the system of institutions. And now there's one amazing thing going on, after more than 50 years. Young Istrian students from the Mate Balota Club in Zagreb want to be expelled from space, so the question of why and why is it now more than 50 years old?? In those long 50 years. The existence of a club has no students from Istria, but neither does the rest of the Republic of Croatia who doesn't know about the Istrian club. It is a cult place, in addition to that, the fact that the word "Istrian" itself is associated with the Club of Students from Istria. This club has been acting as a non-profit association since 1966. at always the same address Zagreb, Ilica 13. All these years, the club had a contract with the City of Zagreb on the lease of space at the address, and all its contractual obligations according to the tenant were executed neatly. The contract was last concluded in April 2017. within 5 years of the date of entry into force of this Agreement. By 2022, respectively, but in January this year, the club was informed by the city that the Treaty on the Use of Space had been broken by law after the state had signed up as the owner of the business space in question. The club acted in accordance with the direction of the City of Zagreb, followed by a meeting of representatives of the ministry with representatives of the club where they were told that the club must be moved from the premises in which it operates. I'll do it again, why now, after more than 50 years.? I remind you, the Club of Students of Istria Mate Balota since 1966. He uses the space in Zagreb in the address Ilica 13, and this seat represents a long tradition in the work of the club i.e. a kind of cult place that today connects its present and former members. I remind you, and that the club properly fulfils its obligations, that the Istrian County is interested in further work and that it encourages the activities of the club in order to preserve Istrian customs, culture, language, as well as promotions of the Istrian County as a whole, that the eviction of clubs from these areas raises questions about the further functioning of the club, as well as the question of the activities of 224 members of the club. We don't think there are any formal obstacles to the club continuing to use the premises at this address. In addition, according to the Law on State Property Management, there are no legal obstacles to the club's still keeping space under the same conditions. By ruling so far, they have made too many mistakes that have caused young people to lose confidence in institutions, so don't send false processions again, but support them in their work, Istrian must remain in their former space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123986	We're going to three club representatives, it's IDS, PGS and RI and a respected colleague, Giovanni Sponza, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123987	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues respected by the public, have you had a chance from the government of the Republic of Croatia in the last year and a half to hear that the state was obliged to lift up the business of the Uljanics? You're not. In the year and a half since the Government of the Republic of Croatia, did you have the opportunity to hear, if the Oilman fails, that the shipbuilding in Croatia is dead? You're not. In the last year and a half, since the government of the Republic of Croatia, have you had the opportunity to hear if shipbuilding fails, that we have a huge, severe negative impact, because shipbuilding binds to itself, thousands of workers and tens of thousands of members of their families. In the last year and a half, have you had a chance to hear from the government of the Republic of Croatia, that they will do anything to save the shipbuilding? You're not. In the last year and a half of the government of the Republic, have you had the chance to hear that the oil will be applied to the Agrokor model? You're not. What were we able to witness in these last year and a half? The period of destruction, the period of manipulation, where all the problems and all the risks are put on the burden of the Oilies and break over the back of the oil workers. If we look at the figures of anyone who was well-intentioned, they will realize that the Uljanik has received far the least from the state compared to all the shipyards, and produced, exported far the most. The oil is the only shipyard that hasn't been restructured. In the past 20 years in Croatia, ships worth more than 86 billion kuna have been built and exported, of which I Uljanik participated far the most, with more than 50 billion kunas, I am oil with more than 60%. So, I'm going to testify again to pure manipulation, where all the problems and risks want to be put on and put on the burden of the Oilies. To make matters even worse, we listen to various populist unfounded and above all shortsighted statements, Mr Maras, such as the fact that instead of saving the Uljaniks could be given 15 thousand euros for every newborn child and no one in this country is asking whether one day when these children grow up and finish colleges after investing in their education, many, but much more than 15 thousand euros, these children will potentially leave Croatia. Given the potential of professions and technical colleges, technical professions would thus be financed by respected colleagues and colleagues, alleged by rich Croatia, under the allegations of a poor Western country. Croatia in the long term, Croatia cannot feed only tourism, Croatia long-term needs both industry and agriculture and tourism. Shipbuilding is the only large industry in Croatia, shipbuilding connects to itself a large number of workers and tens of thousands of members of their families, Uljannik as my colleague said earlier, has a future, provided that the state introduces order, provided that the state establishs supervision with a capable administration. Given that the finance minister advocates bankruptcy, and I expect the economy minister to restructure a state-based decision based on vision, strategic thinking and accountability. I expect a positive decision for both Uljannik and Third May and Croatia's shipbuilding. And finally, I also want to make it clear, given yesterday's events that IDS first, a year and a half ago called on state institutions to investigate each segment of the business of Uljanika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123988	The next Club of Representatives is that IDS-PGS-RIA on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123989	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know what time we expected today to make a decision of the government on the future of shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia. But the prime minister has re-longed the decision, but it was read out of his words that he does not support restructuring but is opening the door to bankruptcy. How important shipbuilding is to this government, how many workers who are without pay for 7 months are important to this government as much as this government wants to end the agony and uncertainty of these workers and their families, to conclude from the opening presentation of the prime minister in today's session, which is currently the most important topic in Croatia not in the second, but in the fifth plan. And for him are the priorities of Brexit, NATO, the European Council and all other European and world problems. Today, the prime minister praised the numerous investments financed by the European Funds, as well as from the Croatian budget, trying to turn away from the priority topics. But the question arises why he did not boast how unsuccessful they are in the recovery of shipbuilding in Croatia, and today we have seen what we have been looking at for months, which is that the government is shamelessly buying time and making crazy excuses delaying this extremely important decision. All this clearly shows that the government is not up to the tasks and challenges facing Croatian shipbuilding. Give us an answer as to why Agrokor's solution was found overnight in order to preserve the economy, and with Uljanika and 3. May's taking so long. Can I give you an answer? Maybe it's because they're Oil and Three. May in counties where HDZ is not in power. It's not Oil and 3. May for bankruptcy, this government is already ready for bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123990	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. As always on Wednesdays, the first day of the plenary session in the week, first there goes the debate by clubs, free speech, and the first day the club of representatives of IDS, PGS and RI, a respected colleague of Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123991	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The theme of my presentation today is the government's relationship to Istria. And more than obvious, this government has two models of action, one for those areas where HDZ is in power and the other, for those areas where HDZ is not in power. The oil is located in this other area and it is obvious that this is why it can be counted on to support the country. It is frightening and it is amazing that an entire region is being punished for the political interests of HDZ, for achieving its interests, the HDZ uses Oil as a tool to attack Istria. It is also frightening to hear from ministers the same story over and over again, about how much the Uljannik would cost taxpayers, i.e., constantly explain only the cost side, while talking about the income side, i.e. how many citizens of Istria among them and the workers of the Uljanika, out of their pockets full of state budgets, thus contributing to the overall Croatian development in the last 29 years, not a single word. That is why I refer a few simple questions to Prime Minister Plenkovic, first of all, we know that only 4 counties participate with a net amount in filling the state budget, so I ask if Istria is one of these counties and what amount does the state budget fill at all levels? Secondly, which county, after the City of Zagreb, has the highest GDP, per capita? Third, which county has the lowest unemployment rate? Fourth, which county has a higher move-in rate than the population eviction? And if the question were, in which counties would be the highest rate of population eviction, the lowest GDP, the smallest investment, the highest unemployment rate, the answer would be those in which HDZ is in power. For a full 17 months, the government has been dragging oil workers and the entire public, week after week, the government announces and then prolongs important decisions to save thousands of jobs. A peak of the government's hypocrites happened last week when the government's session was almost half an hour behind schedule to hear the decision of the Trade Court in Rijeka to launch bankruptcy. What kind of government hides behind court decisions when making its decisions. What kind of government, whose ministers have contributed to Croatian industrial production and exports for years, have been telling them that they will send mobile teams, which will help them enroll in the Employment Service? I'll give you the answer. It is a government that has decided to knowingly and deliberately destroy shipbuilding, one of the last industrial branches in Croatia. Is it not devastating that capable workers who are willing to work and who are even seven months old? work without pay and hope for a solution to their future, be sentenced to social assistance. And therefore, instead of you in HDZ saying that Croatia is a social state, which will provide social assistance to oil workers and that it will guide them to the Employment Service by hand, let us help them keep their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123992	We will now continue the individual debate in accordance with Article. 249th, give an opportunity to make a stand on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. The first one is on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI, a colleague of Giovanni Sponza. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123993	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I base my presentation on yesterday's statements by the president of the HDZ Club, and on government concerns about important projects for the citizens of Istria, where I will address 4 key problems. Well, I'm on my way. What did the government do for the Oilman? An untimely payment of salaries caused a strike, resulting in cancellation of orders, cancellation of orders caused financial damage, lost ship's trust. The government has caused bail due to inaction. The government, as a representative of the state, refused to take responsibility and proposed its representatives to the supervisory board. The result of the work is that workers have not received their salary for more than 7 months, that they have done everything for Agrokor, but indeed everything, although it is a private company. And for Uljanik, in which the state is the largest individual owner, does not make decisions, does not offer solutions, does not carry a concrete plan and measures, hides behind the decision of the Trade Court, hides behind former administrations, hides behind former governments. The government thus shows that it makes a huge difference in the approach between Agrokor and Uljanik. Please explain to the oil workers, please explain to the citizens of Istria what the reason is. What did the government do for a pulse hospital? First, the government stalled for two years with a guarantee for HBOR's loan. Secondly, after two years of stalling, now, the Ministry of Health and the Government refuse to sign another Annex of the Co-financing Agreement makes it a threat to the completion of construction. Please explain to the citizens of Istria why the government refuses to sign another Annex of the Co-financing Agreement, which threatens to complete the construction of a hospital in Pula. What did the government do for Kastyun? We in Istria regarding the waste management project, we respected the law, the strategy, the technology prescribed by the state. We respected all the conditions. We respected the deadlines, we did everything we could to make sure the state didn't pay for the penalty. And by failing to fulfil its commitments, the state has not rounded up the whole process. Please explain to the people of Istria what the reason is. What the government took on about the recovery of an elementary disaster in the Rasko Gulf that took place in June of last year. Almost nothing, the county is the one who has done the job instead of the state has reacted spotlessly, organised cleaning, resolved the damage, and the government does not pay its obligations to the county and thus further prevents the realization of other important projects for the citizens of Istria, and when it comes to the recovery of damage in other counties, especially in those where HDZ is in power then the Government reacts promptically. Here's a question for the citizens of Istria to answer. When HDZ holds hands in the pockets of the citizens of Istria, then Istria is nice and dear to them, when these same citizens need to be returned to a small part of their money then HDZ continues to hold hands in the pockets of the citizens of Istria, but then with the fig. So take responsibility, fulfill your commitments and thus show that you still respect the citizens of Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123994	We have a position on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123995	I thank the esteemed vice president of the assembly, colleagues and colleagues, for I don't know which time we from the IDS are warning from this pay phone about the big problem of wild construction and ineffectiveness of the construction inspection to prevent such construction. Irregular border in Istria, but not just in Istria, it's booming. It's built on agricultural land, it's built beyond the boundaries of building land, it's built on high value land. Such construction unfortunately devastates space every day and endangers the natural, construction and cultural heritage of local communities. The problem is also a construction inspection that has not proved effective in preventing illegal construction. It is essential to find a concrete and long-term solution. Therefore, we in the IDS consider it necessary to organize city building inspection services. Of course, with the delegation of powers, they need to be provided with financial resources in proportion to the amounts in which the state has so far financed the work of the construction inspection in the area of a particular county. We are sure that in such a way, a much better quality and better control of the right situation on the ground would be prevented from spreading illegal construction. For this very reason, at the level of the Istrian County in coordination with the mayors, a request was sent to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning to prepare and send to the parliamentary procedure appropriate amendments and additions to the Construction Inspectorate Act, which would allow the establishment of city construction inspection services. We should remember in 2008 when the Construction Act defined that cities and counties could issue building permits. Before such a provision in Isa was unsettled on 1,000 items, and after the procedure was left to cities and county all cases were resolved very quickly. That is exactly what we need to be an example of good practice. Today, the situation in Istria is excellent, the subject is dealt with in time. It is simply necessary to accept the fact that cities and counties are faster than the ministry and that is why we in the IDS see no reason why we do not use it on construction inspections. Those closest in the field are best and fastest able to detect the problem and solve it and should be given the authority to do so. We in IDS strongly advocate decentralisation because it is one of the fundamental conditions for the development of the country's economy. The introduction of a State Inspectorate that unites 17 inspections is another example of the centralisation of the system, not of decentralisation as this government often likes to boast. It is obvious that this country either still has no trust in local and regional self-government or considers it incompetent or wants to establish a system of full centralised control, thus opening up the possibility of additional repression and punishment, under the so-called signs of inadequateness, which would not surprise us from this HDZ government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123996	I thank my esteemed colleague Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123997	Before continuing on behalf of the representatives' clubs, it is time to present the position of the club of representatives, the first application is on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RIA Club, a colleague of Giovanni Sponza, a fellow member of the Board of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123998	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the work mirror of the Government is evident in vision, strategic thinking, determination and responsibility. What of it do we have a chance to see? That the Republic of Croatia is, by all relevant indicators, at the very bottom of the EU. I'll only list some of the indicators. That we are the last citizens in the EU, that we are the last to be set aside for research and development, that we are at the very bottom for schooling, that we are among the countries with the highest poverty rate. I've spoken countless times that we have to run faster than others to be competitive and to take advantage of our comparative advantages. And what does a respected colleague and fellow ruling satisfy? That we have stable public finances, but it's colleagues and colleagues miles away from what is necessary. To be satisfied, while many citizens and young families are leaving the country and in the first place because they have lost confidence in the state institutions and the system and because their living conditions are not satisfactory. To be satisfied while pensioners live on the edge of poverty, to be satisfied while underpaid work, while workers work, not receiving wages, to be satisfied while medicines and treatment for sick children solve humanitarian actions, rather than systematic solutions, to be satisfied while our economy is on the respirator because the government does not have a clear strategy, to be satisfied while we use EU funds extremely badly, means that the government is an incasator, not a development generator. Dear colleagues and colleagues, citizens want to live in a country that has security, stability, the future, and that Republic, hand to heart, is not today. Therefore, being satisfied with their work, as they point out by ruling, is the least said demeaning of citizens' common sense. We're going forward by momentum without a systematic strategy, without a plan and without a vision. Dear colleagues and colleagues, HDZ has been the longest in power since independence, and that is a fact. So let the government stop making excuses, let the government stop closing their eyes to problems, finally start solving them, and finally take responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u123999	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125036	I thank all those who took part in the free presentation of the views of the club representatives and we are now on the agenda. First point: - Final proposal of the Health Data and Information Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 422 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 4 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in relation to Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us the esteemed Željko Plazonic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, please elect State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125037	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Today, we are pleased to present to you the Final Proposal for a Health Data and Information Act, which provides the basis for harmonisation of the legal framework for the management of health data and information and their quality of processing at national health system level, and at EU level and also at international level. The differences between the final bill and the first-reading bill were mostly nomotechnical. Based on the debate in the Croatian Parliament on the final draft of the law, and in order to achieve the best possible quality of health care, improved provisions on health documentation and records in the areas of health care are required, standardisation of forms, which are related to the collection and processing of health data, as well as clearer and more precise technical link. Central health, means the link between the central, health and information systems of the Republic of Croatia, national and public health systems and so on. eHealth with state information infrastructure. The aim of the final bill is to make comprehensive and efficient use of health data and information in healthcare and to improve and preserve health and population in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125038	Thank you. We have two replicas, first of all a respected colleague of mine, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125039	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin by thanking the Ministry as a Proposer for respecting my observation that standardised forms for the collection and processing of health data are particularly regulated by a regulation prescribed by the Minister responsible for health care. For those of us who work in health care, medical documentation as part of a health file is something without which we cannot talk about quality health care, and here we can see great progress in the past few years and we can say that the Republic of Croatia has gone beyond the borders of our country and now it is a product sold in other countries as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125040	Would you like to respond? Thank you. Then let's go to another replica, dear fellow Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125041	I thank the chairman. I would remind once again that the importance of information in health care is particularly highlighted and during last year, food health and safety Commissioner Vytenis Andriukaitis said how much the potential of digital technologies should be used to improve health care and medical research. And then we warn you of the situation that you are in article 40, for example. said that after the entry into force of this law it was 5 years to ensure the implementation of this medical file and then you say that all providers need 2 years of entry into this force to ensure the exchange with... So it shows how important this law is and how much you missed normotechnically as you said it was, some basic things to agree within this law that would be necessary, you had plenty of time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is not Ustasha, partisans, all of it, this is the law that everyone needs but then you should agree to it and norm technicalally at least time frames and let alone many other things that you missed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125042	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125043	Well, we recently agreed to this bill, and as far as I know, the Health Committee had no objections. And as for the five-year-old, it's the deadline, nobody crosses anyone to do it all together five years ago, but I think it's one reasonable deadline because it's not easy. The job is a very complex and very complex and very demanding job that depends on a whole series of factors that have to be included in it, which is why it is also given this greater period than 5 years. But I say, if someone... Before he does, no one's defending him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125044	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, we have the chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee, colleague Strenja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125045	I thank Mr. Chairman, I welcome once again the representatives of the ministry. The Committee therefore discussed this Final Proposal for a Health Data and Information Act at its meeting on 3 December 2018 as a home working body. And in the opening statement, we heard from the proposing representatives who are the primary objective of this law and the scope of its application. As the Proposer pointed out, the aim of passing laws is reflected in the comprehensive and effective use of health data and health care information to improve and preserve the health of the population in the Republic of Croatia. The law provides the basis for the harmonisation of the legal framework, the management of health data and information and their quality processing at national health system level and at EU and international level. The legislative proposal provides for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No From 16 December 2008 on Community statistics on public health and health and safety at work, 1338/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The differences between the solution in the final draft of the law in relation to the solutions set out in the proposal for a law in which the content of health documentation and the indication of the place where it arises in health care activities are better prescribed by standardised models related to the collection and processing of health data, the comments of the members of the committee made in the first reading have been accepted. In a further discussion, the Committee warned that, in his view, the discrimination between Articles 40 and 43 of the Law on the terms of which it considers it necessary to bring them into line and that the 5-year period is too long. During the debate, it is also commended that standards will improve the quality of health information data while reducing administrative jobs to a comprehensive and efficient use of information technologies in eHealth. Most of the votes were supported by the Committee's proposal for this data and information law in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125046	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate and now I'm calling again on behalf of the MOST club of the independent lists of my colleague Strenje to take a word for it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125047	Thank you. The National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020, the Human Resources Development Strategic Plan 2015-2020, as well as the Strategic Plan for eHealth Development in the Republic of Croatia recognized the digitisation of healthcare as one of the key tools for developing Croatian health care. The existing law, which has a nominally regulated field of data management in the healthcare sector, has been completed by the Health Records Act for more than 40 years and does not provide answers to a number of questions as well as a rule arising from the Health Protection Act, which is a Regulation on the use and protection of data from patient medical records in the central information system RJ. Furthermore, the Regulation on how to manage, store, collect and make available to patients in the central information system of the Republic of Croatia and the Regulation on health care quality standards and how to apply it. It is therefore particularly important to take into account the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which stipulates how each person is guaranteed the security and confidentiality of personal data. Without the consent of the subject, personal data may be collected, processed and used only under the conditions laid down in the law. The law regulates data protection and surveillance of the operation of information systems in the country. It shall be prohibited to use personal data contrary to the intended purpose of their collection, says Article 37. The Constitution. According to the Republic of Croatia, the processing of personal data of subjects must be based on a law which must also indicate the least purpose of the processing. It is instructed to establish the same controller, type of personal data, categories of subjects, restrictions, purpose, storage period and other measures to ensure legal and fair processing. Until recently, the Data Protection Act has been prescribed how personal data can be collected for the purpose of which the subject is familiar, which is explicitly stated and in accordance with the law and can only be further processed for the purpose of which they are collected or for the purpose of which it is compatible with the purpose of collection and that the controller of the personal data collection is responsible for acting in accordance with the provisions of this Article. By adopting the Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, the previous Data Protection Act has been put out of force, and the General Data Protection Regulation itself does not contain health contents that are indeed contained in the General Regulation. It is clear from everything that if the data and information in health care are not regulated by this law in an appropriate and professionally sustainable and applicable way, the future of digitisation of data will remain on uncertain feet. Therefore, it was necessary to regulate this law the concept of the place where documentation was made, who produced documents from a healthcare worker, associate, non-healthy worker, medical device, classification of documentation, administrative documentation, medical, sisterly, primal, type of documentation, digital, manually guided, diagnostic, imaging materials, electrophysiological curves, Semantic and process standards, ensuring the entry, exchange and reading of understandable and useful data, and providing process standards with their quality, timelyity, reliability, sufficientness, etc. It was also necessary to regulate how long and in what conditions a certain type of documentation was kept, which health data were subject to public health interest, the basic components of the health information system, interoperability within and outside the health information system, the list and description of the health registers, the list and the description of the records in health care, the list and the description of the type of documentation and the right to access and specific cases. Without such a methodologically structured approach, the law will not justify the expectations of citizens who, at the time of the 4 industrial revolution, want to inherit all modern technological achievements available to neighbouring countries of Europe. It appears that this proposal, the final proposal of the law has considerable uncertainty, vague formulations and as such cannot provide a clear framework of security and legality which was so necessary for the continuation of the health information process. I will read it again, if you may not understand it correctly, but the disagreement between Articles 40 and 43 shows that you really did not simply follow that sequence that you should at least agree with each other, not that they are in a clear discussion. Article 40 states that healthcare professionals are obliged to ensure that health and medical records are kept at all levels of health care in electronic form within 5 years of the date of entry into force of this law. Five years is a lot, but here you say 5 years, and in Article 43 you say, all healthcare providers in the Republic of Croatia are required to ensure the exchange of health data through CESIH in accordance with Article 28(3) of this law within 2 years of the date of entry into force of this law. Therefore, that the longer MOST will be against this law because it does not comply with the Information Infrastructure Act, and it is intended to edit the future digitalisation of patient data precisely on the basis of state information infrastructure. To remind you, the State Information Infrastructure Act establishing the rights and obligations and responsibilities of public sector authorities relating to the establishment, development and management of a system of state information infrastructure, the establishment and management of public registers systems and the conditions that state information infrastructure must ensure in relation to public registers, as well as the use of a common basis with a secure exchange of data within the state information infrastructure system, a common system of identification and authentication, a unique point of interaction with citizens and other users. So, the observation was enough, here I did not bring it here, there was a concrete and a proposal for objections from the Association and health lawyers, the Association of the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Chamber of Recipients, therefore and most often were to propose that within the law itself it was said that the rule on the time limits for the storage of health and other personal data would be clearly defined. Therefore, the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 36 provides that health and other personal data must be kept in a form that allows the identification of the subjects only for as long as necessary for the purposes which such data are processed. That provision could in practice lead to different practices in health care institutions and it is necessary to prescribe storage deadlines for all health and other personal data in a form enabling the identification of the subjects. Therefore, Article 29 of the Law provides that the final proposal of the Health Data and Information Act is to be kept secret in the registers and records in the field of health care. However, there is no regulation in any provision on the keeping of health and other personal data originating earlier, which are stored in paper-shaped letters and which allow the identification of subjects and there is no other regulation to regulate it. Therefore, the Health Records Act states that the data entered in the visit records, health services, identified diseases and conditions and injuries are kept as data of permanent value, so health institutions in their letters have stored large amounts of health records in paper form, which are health records, specialist findings, laboratory findings that are older than 50 and more years, which are also a major problem for institutions how and where to store them, and which documentation allows the identification of subjects. They proposed, therefore, that the health minister’s legal powers should be governed by the rules governing the time limits of storage of health and other personal data in order to ensure that all health institutions act in the same manner within the time limits of storage in the form which enables the identification of the subjects. So, in the second reading, you only accepted the recommendations of the Central Office for the Development of Digital Society and only partially, Art. 7th, 28th and 29th, all other articles do not comply with the terms and conditions of this proposal, and therefore there is still a discrepancy of the proposal for a law with the State Information Infrastructure Act. It was meant to edit the future, as I said, digitize patient data precisely on the basis of state information infrastructure. It remains irresponsible, where the safety of patients, the right of citizens to health is guaranteed by the Constitution, to act on the basis of the principle prescribed by the State Information Infrastructure Act. Once again, I will repeat how much Europe has repeatedly pointed out the need to adopt a quality law in this area, so the Committees of Health and Food Safety Vytenis Andriukaitis said on several occasions that the potential of digital technologies should be fully exploited in order to improve health care and medical research. And this will result in easier access to health data, which will allow better prevention of disease and care focused on the patient, rapid response to pandemic threats and improved treatment. It is therefore proposed to ensure better access and the possibility of re-use of public sector data, good exchange of scientific data, exchange of private sector data between companies and state bodies, and protection of public health data while fostering European cooperation. This law did not do so and therefore the Most Independent Lists will be against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125048	2nd Club of Representatives is this HDZ, respected colleague Zeljka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125049	I would like to thank the President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Health. We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Data and Information in Health. During the first reading, and I believe it will be now, we all agreed that we need a new law because we know that the Health Records Act, which is 40 years old, is currently in force. If we also look at the national health development strategy in 2012-2020, we will see that the priority is to standardise health data and integrate health data, as well as to information and equalise the level of information in health. Similarly, as the Proposer himself has said, this ensures the implementation of Regulation No. 1338/2008, European Parliament and Council of 16.12.2008 on Community statistics on public health, health and safety at work. In order for the health system to be functional and efficient, quality in the collection itself is important, but also the use of health data and information. Unfortunately, we still don't have a system that could use all the participants in the health system. It means that there are no common principles, concepts, procedures, responsible bodies, the exercise of the rights and obligations of legal and physical persons in the health system itself. That's exactly what it tells us about the need to pass a law like this. Of course, it is necessary to define information standards and regulations and to coordinate the information systems themselves. As I noted during my first reading, our information system is still not in the health care facilities, not uniform and often happens that general and county hospitals are condemned to those information systems that they can afford. These information systems are unfortunately often incomplete and we can say that they are not suitable for today’s provision of health care activities and often happens that within the hospital system you can’t sometimes follow the same patient without talking about when a patient is being sent to another hospital or clinic. Of course, I am a health care system or health care activity must offer what is necessary for all participants in the healthcare system, therefore, only the collection of information, the quality of information, and thus the data on the patient himself and its monitoring. I therefore believe that at the moment the information system is standardised, we will achieve what we all really need, and that is what we all keep saying and emphasising, a harmonised information system, efficiency, economics, safer use of health information data. It should be noted that medical documentation is a fundamental source of health information about the healthcare user and also an integral part of the electronic records that must satisfy all participants in the health system. For all this information on the health system, it is extremely important that they are available, verifiable and true. This law therefore aims to improve the very quality of the health system and information technologies. What we must not forget is that in this way we should also reduce administrative jobs. Those who work in health care know how important it is to us and how much health care professionals and doctors and nurses themselves are buried in the administration. Of course, the HDZ Club will support the law because we really feel that it is necessary to introduce order in the information collapsing in the health system and to provide better quality service and health care for our patients, but also to enable better quality work for all healthcare professionals, because, of course, in order to achieve this, we need quality and updated data and information, monitoring and management of them, and we also need a system of data storage, so that our health system can function in quality. I'm going to point out once again that we, as a HDZ club, are going to support this law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125050	We are now going to a third debate, a SDP representative club, a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125051	The President-in-Office of HS, state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club will support the Final Proposal for the Health Data and Information Act because we believe that the proposed text fulfils the objective of passing the Law, which is comprehensive and effective use of health data and information in health care to improve and preserve the health of the population in the Republic of Croatia, as well as harmonisation of the legal framework for the management of health data and information, their quality of treatment at the level of the rational health system and EU level. We heard in the introduction, as in the first reading, that the current Law is 40 years old, so it is clear that it cannot meet all those obligations that arise from the possibility of having quality data. We've never had this much data in mankind's history, this much information, but such an increase in information has not been followed by a proportional increase in knowledge. Therefore, data management, information management, is crucial to obtain information from the data, and to obtain information from the information that will then ensure better quality management of health resources and better quality management of the health problems of our citizens. What I particularly want to highlight from this whole legislative proposal, not to repeat what the predecessors have said, which is a quality of registering and monitoring the outcome of the treatment because this is exactly what will allow our system to focus on health and on healing. According to current data, we know that in the Republic of Croatia we are not overly successful in the treatment of numerous diseases, that we are at the top of the improvement, by numerous diseases in the EU, and precisely the quality of the data that will be obtained under this Act, the establishment of the register will ensure that future outcomes of treatment are made better and that the conditions in which healthcare professionals will make decisions will be better. Therefore, to obtain quality information based on which treatment guidelines can be provided, based on which a multidisciplinary approach will be provided. I'm going to remind you of our diabetes registers, the cancer registers that have existed for decades now, but that don't work well for the simple reason why it hasn't solved a whole series of questions about the very financing of people who fill out data in those registers. Therefore, the collection, analysis with the purpose of monitoring, improvement of treatment outcomes, in my view is something important that will result from this Law, and despite some shortcomings, we believe that this Law should be supported and that, on the basis of the quality of application of this Act, of course, if we consider that this is a software, we need to secure as soon as possible hardware with additional software in the entire health system, so that networking, harmonisation of data, will be available throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and thus ensure the rational availability of funds, reduce the administration of healthcare professionals and allow for quality decisions that will mean better health care in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125052	Thank you. Before we go to an individual debate, I would like to welcome the students and students of Lucian Vranjanin High School from Zagreb. Welcome! Now we're going to an individual debate, first order is colleague Miro Bulj, gone, so he loses his right to speak and then after him is dear colleague Ivan Celic, here you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125053	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, considering that in the Republic of Croatia there is no fully legally harmonised framework on the management of health data and information, we could say that we are missing in this area. I dare say that it is not possible to talk about serious health reform, at least in the context of the Republic of Croatia, unless we have a modern, modern-day law that will regulate the area of health data and information. Europe is a region of contrast, so I will now say, at the end of the term of office, that Danish Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen is implementing a health reform called First Patients, it has 4 parts, first it is close to the availability of health services, then coherence, quality and then greater rights for patients. So, in a modern European country such as Denmark, there is no talk of medical information, but if we go to the east a little bit, let's see, let's say, the situation, in our neighbouring countries, such as Montenegro, we already have a problem there, which is what fellow Jovanovic said, who will enter the data and who will send those data to the National Institute of Public Health. Of course, it has already been mentioned, therefore, registers that have their long history and that need to be adapted to today, we have 4 registers for infectious diseases, 4 registers for chronic non-infectious diseases and states and suicide registers. We also have bright examples such as the KB of the Holy Spirit, such as the General Hospital of Varazdin, which has such information systems where data are interpolated regarding certain medical tests, which are chronologically compared but unfortunately we have some hospitals that do not yet have a centralized information system, so each department has a story of its own. In Croatia in general, it should work to promote a culture of health information. Here it is worth mentioning on one side the concept of organisational culture since in health circles changes in organisational culture are often cited as one of the most important preconditions for improving the functioning of the health system and resulting health care in this part of health reform. Given that data and information are extremely important management processes in the planning, management and evaluation of the health system, it is also necessary to develop information culture as part of the organisational culture that determines information management and how it is used in the system. The use of information communication technologies that develop more slowly than in other sectors significantly alter the ways, forms and places of data collection and use. So health care as a specific system has its difficulties and is developing more slowly in the information terms compared to the economy. Information culture is a culture in which the value and usefulness of information is recognised in achieving operational and strategic objectives in which information is based in decision making in a variety of organisations and an efficient information system is made possible by using information technology. In order for the interaction of people, information and technology in any organisation as well as in health care to achieve a certain success, a successful working effect should be promoted and the behaviour and values that promote productive use of information but also develop the ability to effectively manage information technology applications and infrastructure, as well as the ability to effectively manage information, or to collect, organise, process and maintain information effectively. The example of eHealth shows that the interaction of people, information and technology cannot work successfully without the ability to manage IT infrastructure effectively without the successful management of the quality of information and without the connection and successful communication, the sharing of powers, the roles, all those who should manage the information. It is therefore necessary to promote behaviour and values that promote the effective use of information and, in the case of eHealth, this specifically refers to increasing the level of information integrity, transparency and control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125054	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one's a colleague, Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125055	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Celić, I answered because you held a very good debate, among other things often here in the Croatian Parliament, always stressing, for example, the negativity. However, in your discussion today, you have also set good examples, including the information system, the General Hospital of Varazdin, which certainly brings me joy and joy. First of all, I would like to stress that there are always people behind everything and that we should always appreciate and respect their work. And the employees of the General Hospital of Varazdin have to point out both professional and kind. And that is why I believe that they contribute most to the whole work of the hospital, especially when we talk about the information system that I think should be revised to other levels, especially to more levels of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125056	Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125057	So here during the debate and preparation, in fact, about this final bill I came up with data that indeed the General Hospital of Varazdin has an excellent information system with this possibility of chronic data interpolation. Of course, if we have a minority of such hospitals as Varazdin General Hospital, then the data collected in the central storage system will be missing in CESIH. And it is very important that those data that need to go to a higher level, primarily where registers are found at the Croatian Public Health Institute, be all interlinked. Because unfortunately, here, although in 2019 we still have certain registers where in physical terms it is necessary to bring printed forms and I think it is unnecessary today and that this with information technologies can be avoided and thus reduce that excess administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125058	Second replica, dear colleague Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125059	Thank you, dear colleague. About any law and especially about the Health Law when we talk to each other, there should always be a citizen who ties the end to the end, a citizen who feels like Sisif as soon as he knocks on the closed door of the health system. Healthlessness is so great for a small man that every day he is further away from medical care, I am not talking to that family doctor but to specialist examinations and quality services, so he waits for two years, 2.5 years for checks. And I believe that the legislator, i.e. In this case, the proposer of the law, the Government, wishes to arm the public with a law that will tell him which information he is allowed to publish and which he must not publish publicly. At a time when medicines are not available, when surgical procedures are not available, when no specialist examinations are available for the little man we deal with this kind of information. I think this is the way to censorship to talk about health care and whatnot.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125060	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125061	Dear colleague Lenart, it seems to me that you have prepared some manifesto without even reading the proposal for a law on data and information in health care. So information is an integral part of the health system. I agree with you that there are many areas, that the most important people in every health system, that we face certain problems, because without quality and sufficiently educated people in the Croatian healthcare system, then health care services will not be enough. So this principle of combined containers on the one hand, so quality and well-educated experts will definitely reflect on the service as large and as high-quality health care service as possible towards patients, which is why the Croatian health system is intended and I think we need to talk here about what is the essence of this law, not letting cheap political flossules.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125062	Thank you. Finally, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mr. Zeljko Plazonić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125063	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This way I'd just like to give a few information for an explanation so that some false perception of this law doesn't go on the air and remain there. First, this whole law is in Art. 2. It writes nicely, in line with the EU Regulation, it is first and foremost, and on the other hand all of our laws, which are relevant regarding the area of information, have indeed shown and proved, including the Committee on Law, that this is in line with all of our positive regulations so far. As far as the data is concerned, this is the case. 40 and 43 are two articles that have no direct connection. You've read the article nicely. 40. where medical documentation at all levels of healthcare is said to be kept and kept in electronic form within 5 years, it shall be kept as a whole and as regards art. 43. It's only about ensuring data exchange, health data through CEH, CEZIH and this law within 2 years. So one is data exchange, and the other is data storage. The second thing is, it is not true that we do not keep this data permanently, because data are kept and used permanently and only scientific and statistical purposes are written in law, and in art. 28. It states in paragraph 4 that in CEZIH medical documentation for natural persons is kept for 10 years after the death of a natural person and after the expiry of the deadline, documentation shall be handled in accordance with the rules on archive materials and archives. And most importantly, all of these details, which you dear colleagues have made, concerns not the law, but the regulation that will be passed and which will be comprehensive and will exactly guide all the stakeholders of this process in health care, which they do, when they do and what they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125064	Thank you for your presentation we have one replica, colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125065	I'm sorry, obviously we're going to have to resolve this situation personally, because I called in an article. as it writes, and that is that the time limit of implementation, to start applying and keeping it in this way that you have legally prescribed for 5 years. So not as long as it is kept, but as data processing managers must ensure management, etc. within five years of the date of entry into force of this law. He says how long it takes you to enforce that law in everyone. I know it's a problem, I know that the KBC Sister of Mercy still doesn't have the information system, which is absolutely unimaginable to me, because we've had it in Rijeka for 10 years. But, please, see again, Art. The 40th says, for 5 years you need to establish the application of this law, and you say that all providers must start applying and ensure the exchange with CEZIH within 2 years of the date of entry of this law, so obviously we will have to resolve it personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125066	Thank you for your response. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125067	I don't know if we'll be able to handle this in personal contact, but we obviously misread one of those same things. This is about keeping the data for five years if someone's gonna do it in a year, nobody's gonna cross it, but they're gonna give him a five-year-old deadline to make it all work out by the end, right? I think the thing is quite clear, it just needs to be properly and equally, I would say with an equal goal to interpret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125068	Thank you. That concludes the debate on the final proposal of the Health Data and Information Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 422, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125069	Final proposal of the Health Data and Information Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 422. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, and I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 109 for, 5 abstentions and 11 votes against the Law on Data and Information in Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125070	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No. 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials in medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 423 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 4 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 172 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate is the problems of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. If the proposer wishes to give an additional explanation, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125071	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, the final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No This and that of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials in medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC shall be determined by the competent authorities and their tasks, the exercise of controls and the relevant infringement provisions sanctioning non-compliance with the provisions of the Regulation on clinical trials. The Regulation was adopted to protect the rights, health, dignity and well-being of subjects and to obtain reliable and consistent data during clinical trials of medicinal products. Directive 2001/20/EC sought to simplify and harmonise administrative provisions on clinical trials of medicinal products in the EU, however, experience has shown that a harmonised approach to the regulation of clinical trials has only been partially achieved. The new procedures for the approval of clinical trials prescribed by the regulation should stimulate the inclusion of the largest number of Member States, thereby encouraging the specificity and implementation of clinical studies of medicinal products in the EU. Therefore, provisions have been adopted to simplify the procedures for the submission of documentation concerning the application for approved clinical trial through and a single EU portal, thus avoiding multiple administrations. the same information on the clinical trial and replace the submission of one file with documentation relating to the request, as well as to all Member States concerned, via a single portal. The new approach to differences between Member States has reduced practically to a minimum and the Member States concerned cooperate in assessing the requirements for approval of clinical trials by means of a single procedure for assessing documentation and uniform deadlines, which will contribute overall to the speed of the procedure. The study authorities have been facilitated by administrative procedures related to the approval of clinical trials of medicinal products but with a limited assessment of the potential risks with a specific reference to the protection of subjects in clinical trials. In the field of clinical trials inspection, further Union controls shall be introduced, with the European Commission preparing in cooperation with Member States the control programme to ensure that Member States monitor compliance with the provisions of the Regulation. And the aim of the final bill is to ensure rapid access to new, innovative treatment procedures while ensuring the protection and safety of respondents through a series of those rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125072	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit, first colleague of Ines Strenja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125073	Thank you. In fact, I would like to ask the question, in the world currently invests in clinical trials of more than 16 billion euros, in Croatia it is about, like, 40 million euros. What the ministry has done in the past 2 years during the term of office of this minister in order to improve health care through the introduction of clean money available to us because you only know how many clinical trials direct investment in health care in the Republic of Croatia. So what's been done in the last two years?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125074	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125075	So the answer, even though I don't think this question is the subject of this law, is that we have significantly shortened the deadlines in the Ministry of Health, in this way we have enabled as quickly as possible the more effective clinical trials of new medicines. It was a task, and as far as we're going to do these studies, it's actually a relationship between the ministry and those who offer us clinical procedures for examining medicines, so it's not just up to the ministry, but also to the pharmaceutical industry in the first place and our regulatory bodies within Croatia as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125076	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is the interest, therefore, regarding this procedure because the complaint by the pharmaceutical industry, however, patients' associations also stress the importance of these clinical trials and I wonder whether the Ministry of Health may have considered some specific campaigns in which certain target groups of patients where clinical trials are most conducted, informed about the importance of these clinical trials and thus indirectly encouraged if this opinion of the profession to engage in these studies. I mean, primarily, oncological diseases, rare diseases, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125078	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125079	So clinical trials we as a ministry are primarily conducted in collaboration with our hospitals, especially clinical hospitals, and this is a large part of the work done by our clinical hospitals, which patients, by which diagnosis and by which purposes and according to which medicines they will be included in their clinical trials. We need to know that no medicine that comes to the Croatian market and which... any possible instance of his release into a clinical trial, not for the first time came to Croatia, he has already been studied clinically and his prehistory is significantly richer than we can think of it at first sight, especially in those who are not sufficiently informed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are in the interest of supporting as many clinical trials as possible to benefit those patients who are primarily at risk today with the nature of their own disease. In doing so, I can also say as a former member of the HZZO Committee for Medicinal Products, that almost every meeting has been informed in some way from 12 to 20 new medicines in the domain of treatment for malignant diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125080	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague of Jelkovac, a colleague of the Strenja? A colleague of Strenja, president of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125081	Therefore, at its meeting held on 3 December, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the final proposal for a Law implementing Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials in medicinal products for human use and placing outside Directive 2001/20/EC, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Committee discussed as the home working body and the applicant’s representative in the introductory part pointed out that this law ensures the implementation of this Regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and the placing of this Directive out of force which is a coherent approach to the regulation of clinical trials in the EU-wide area but is only partially achieved. Therefore, it is simplified to resolve the requirements for the authorisation of a clinical trial to submit only one dossier with regard to the request of all Member States concerned through a single portal. The implementation of the Regulation will increase the competitiveness of the EU at global level in the field of clinical trials of medicinal products, ensure rapid access to new and innovative treatment procedures while at the same time adopting a set of rules on the safety and protection of subjects and will allow for reliable and consistent data to be obtained during clinical trials of medicinal products. With a new approach to differences between Member States, they are reduced to a minimum and the Member States concerned cooperate in assessing the requirements for approval of a clinical trial by means of a single procedure for assessing documentation and uniform deadlines, which will contribute overall to the speed of the procedure. The Committee discusses the provisions of the law which, in the field of clinical trials inspection, further introduces and controls of the EU, in which the European Commission prepares in cooperation with Member States the control programme to determine whether Member States monitor compliance with EU provisions 536/2014. The Committee unanimously supported this law on the implementation of this Regulation and we proposed it to be discussed at the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125082	Thank you. You can stay because we're opening a debate on behalf of the clubs, so you're the first, you're the first, you've got Strenja colleagues, you've got MOST representatives, you've got the same law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125083	Thank you. So, MOST of Independent Lists will support the bill because we consider it important. In this way, we wanted, with this question that I have asked as a replica to the rapporteurs by the promoters means the Ministry of Health, I wanted to actually draw attention to how much we as Croatia are lagging behind in this area. So one is the application of this Regulation, alignment, a unique form, and another is how the Ministry of Health understands at the moment that clinical trials are direct investments in Croatia and its health system, allows patients to access the latest medicines quickly and directly, and enables doctors to develop new scientific knowledge, new scientific knowledge and therapeutic opportunities. Currently, 200 thousand clinical trials are being conducted worldwide. It is about EUR 16 billion, which is invested in this area and are direct profits for these countries where clinical research, research is conducted, and it is worrying that in Croatia it is only EUR 9.2 per capita and only EUR 40 million. In Slovenia, for example. clinical trials are invested annually in EUR 161 million and EUR 81 per capita, respectively, in Hungary, in as much as EUR 158 million per year and EUR 16 per capita, and in Belgium 2.4 billion, in Denmark, EUR 1.4 billion per year. So, this huge pool that we really have yet to swim in. Croatia needs to take a clear view and strategy in order to become a country desirable for conducting clinical trials, and that means the ministry's decision to proceed proactively as counterpart Celic said. This includes the system of education of the professional medical public, timely patient information on clinical trials and the establishment of a national clinical trial registry. Since there are still prejudices in Croatia about clinical studies of medicinal products as their own kind of experiments on people in the pharmaceutical industry, it is noted that it is strictly controlled processes led by the best healthcare professionals who are in contact with patients on a daily basis with the aim of improving treatment outcomes. Patients' associations and this are also aware of the continued support of such initiatives that would lead to a greater number of clinical trials and their greater availability to Croatian patients, as it is possible for patients participating in clinical trials to access the latest innovative medicines that are not otherwise available on the Croatian market. This is particularly important for cancer patients who are often the last to continue treatment and prolong life and have rare diseases. Therefore, it also benefits from a health system because it achieves savings because the cost of treatment and diagnostic procedures is fully covered by the order of the study. Therefore, the ministry is also also given a request for, that the approval process be reduced to only 28 days and that Croatia be made significantly more attractive for these clinical trials by the associations, which means the patient association. Clinical studies in Croatia are still and in fact the ministry has a significant role to play, should be taken over and further misread as one of the ways in which the profits of the pharmaceutical industry are achieved, while the patient is reduced to the role of the experimental rabbit. However, clinical studies are part of progress in the field of medicine, but the prejudices on the dangers of clinical trials are common although the products under investigation are often much better than those of the existing ones. For many patients, participation in clinical trials is their last hope, for patients with malignancies as I have said, and one big ethical question is actually being raised in front of us. Is it ethical to deny the ability to benefit from a product that is yet to be tested, only because it is only being tested, and it can save the life of that child or that person who suffers from a severe illness. It is a great responsibility for those who finance, but it is also a great responsibility, meaning it is a great responsibility of the pharmaceutical industry, but above all it must think primarily of the design of a study with a focus on the minimisation of patient risks, the selection of qualified experts in Croatia who will carry out studies, the examinations, the excerptation of authorisations, the provision of proper supervision of activities in the context of studies, appointment of supervisors, scientific councils, protection committees, data processing and analysis, publication of results, etc. The responsibility of the investigator himself is primarily in ensuring continuous safety and well-being for each participant of the study, and requires detailed knowledge of the studies, products and protocols, risks, adverse reactions and possible benefits of the drug being studied. It is also the responsibility of the interrogator to educate co-workers and share the work in a consistent manner, to report events affecting safety and immediately interrupt the interrogation if it considers that it is no longer in the best interests of the patient itself. Therefore, there should be insufficient understanding of the concept of responsibility and hospitals, it is not the hospital responsible for the examination body but is an investigator that ensures that the examination is conducted in a safe, ethically acceptable and legal manner. The hospital only allows space and equipment, but through its bodies approves, ethical commissions, approves the start of a clinical trial. In the end of the rights and protection of patients, therefore in EU countries a patient has the right to suspend participation in the study for any reason, but even for no reason whatsoever. Discontinuation should not be a reason for discrimination if it is returned to one of the classic treatments in the past. The patient has the right to know who pays for the examination, how much his investigator has been paid, must be informed of the known risks, adverse reactions and expected benefits of the study, continuously and consistent with changes in the knowledge that occurred even during the study. Also, patients are informed of the outcome of the study, particularly vulnerable groups, some groups of patients such as children or persons deprived of liberty, and special attention should be paid to them. So, in Croatia as regards clinical trials, there are many issues and there are different challenges than in the EU, but as I said, it is a direct benefit for health care in our country, but we also allow access to those who would surely die or would have happened sooner, means the fatal outcome if we did not get that drug that is still in the phase of the study and it takes a long and long time to come and be used on our market. Therefore, it is important to recognise the benefits at the highest level of health system management without which there is no decision-making on clinical trials in a more significant scale than now when practice comes down to the initiative and effort of individuals of enthusiasts. I think it's something where the Ministry of Health needs to take a much more proactive role. MOST Independent Lists will support this proposal of harmonisation means with the EU Directive and the proposal for this law which contains it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125084	Thank you. Before the next debate on behalf of the club, let us welcome students and students of the Zagreb School of Business. Welcome to my left... We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. [[Applause.]] Next is counterpart Ivan Celic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go, fellow Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The final draft law implementing Regulation 536/2014 of the European Parliament on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use is before us, leaving the scope of Directive 2001/20 EC. During the clinical trial, rights, health, dignity and well-being of subjects should be protected, and the data obtained should be reliable and consistent. Interest of respondents should always take precedence over all other interests. In order to ensure an independent control of compliance with these principles, prior authorisation is required for a clinical trial. The concept of clinical study was more specifically defined by the introduction of a broader concept of clinical study with one of its categories of clinical trial. The 2001 directive aimed at simplifying and harmonising administrative provisions on clinical trials in the EU. However, experience shows that a harmonised approach to regulating clinical trials is only partially achieved. It is therefore particularly difficult to conduct a clinical trial in several Member States. Based on the development of science, it can be concluded that future clinical trials will focus on a population of patients who are more specific, such as subgroups identified by genealogical information. In order to include a sufficient number of patients for such clinical trials, many should be included, if not all Member States. The right form of the regulation is an advantage to test and surveyors, so the differences in access between different Member States are reduced to a minimum. The time limits for assessing the documentation regarding the request for approval of clinical trials should be sufficient to assess the documentation and at the same time should ensure rapid access to new innovative treatment procedures and ensure that the Union remains an attractive place for conducting clinical trials. In the context of this, the 2001 Directive introduced the concept of silent authorisation and the concept should be maintained to ensure that deadlines are met. Clinical studies should be encouraged to develop medicinal products for rare diseases and medicinal products intended for subjects suffering from serious and exhausting diseases and often life-threatening, which affects up to one person per 50 thousand in the EU. These are extremely rare diseases. Member States should assess all requirements for clinical trials effectively and within the specified time limit. The safety risk of subjects in a clinical trial mainly stems from 2 sources, the drug studied and intervention. However, many clinical trials pose only a minimal additional risk to the safety of subjects compared to normal clinical practice. These low-risk clinical trials are often crucial to assessing normal treatment and diagnosis, optimising drug use and thus contributing to high levels of public health. For clinical trials, less strict monitoring rules, requirements for the content of the main file and the traceability of the medicinal products examined should be subject to. In order to improve treatment procedures available to sensitive groups such as insufferable and older people, people with multiple chronic diseases and people with mental disorders should be fully and adequately studied for the effects of medicinal products that may be of significant clinical value in these specific groups, also as regards requirements relating to their specific characteristics and health protection and welfare of subjects belonging to these groups. In accordance with international guidelines, an informed consent should be given in writing. If the subject does not know how to write, it can be recorded by other appropriate means, someone via audio or video recorder. Before obtaining an informed consent, a potential subject should receive information from a previous conversation in a language that is easily understood by him. The subject should be able to ask questions at any time. He should have the appropriate time to consider his decision. According to our law, 14, a person who has a conversation and participates in the process of obtaining informed consent can be exclusively Dr. medicine and Dr. dental medicine. In some other EU Member States, other experts can do the same. The same article adheres to a national law which, with the informed consent given by the legally appointed representative, requires that a minor who is able to create an opinion and assess the information given to him should also agree to participate in a clinical trial. The law, although exceptional, lays down clear rules on informed consent in emergency situations. They happen when a patient, for example. has a sudden life-threatening disease resulting from multiple injuries, strokes or heart attacks and needs urgent medical intervention. The clinical trial in question should be directly related to a health condition that makes it impossible to obtain prior informed consent from the subject or from his legally appointed representative within the therapeutic window. A large part of the clinical trials are conducted by non-commercial contracting authorities. Non-commercial customers often rely on funding that comes in part or entirely from public funds or charities. In order to maximise the valuable contribution of such non-commercial contracting authorities and to encourage further research without jeopardising the quality of clinical trials, Member States should adopt measures to encourage clinical trials conducted by non-commercial contracting authorities. This Regulation seeks to achieve an internal market in relation to clinical trials and medicinal products for human use and is based on a high level of health protection. This Regulation also lays down high standards of quality and safety of medicinal products, in order to meet the normal safety requirements regarding these products, and all with a view to ensuring rapid access to new, innovative treatment procedures while at the same time adopting a set of rules on the safety and protection of subjects. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation No. 536/2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and on the placing beyond the scope of Directive 2001/20/EC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125086	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next is counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic, in front of the SDP representative club, please welcome counterpart Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125087	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, since both State Secretary Plazonic and counterpart Strenja and counterpart Celic really explained the reasons why this is a good Final Bill proposal, I will not repeat all of this, I will say in the beginning that as a SDP club we too support this Act because we believe that it will actually contribute to better treatment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So we have heard that the main objective is to simplify the resolution of the requirements for approval of clinical trials, by submitting only one dossier with regard to the request of all Member States concerned through the single EU portal. Why does it matter? So, research is being conducted worldwide, and the EU wants to increase its global competitiveness in the field of clinical drug studies, wants to ensure rapid access for its citizens to new, innovative treatment procedures while at the same time adopting a set of rules concerning safety and protection of subjects, which will allow for both reliable and consistent data during clinical drug studies. What is important for us, the new approach to differences between Member States is reduced to a minimum, the Member States concerned cooperate in assessing the requirements for approval of clinical trials by means of a single procedure, assessment of documentation and uniform deadlines, which will contribute overall to the speed of the procedure. So the EU wants to be competitive. It is now up to us how competitive we will be within the EU to attract as many clinical trials as possible in the Republic of Croatia as we have heard there are not too many so far. Last year, all 69 were approved. The total amount intended for clinical trials worldwide was EUR 16 billion. Therefore, by increasing the number of clinical trials in the Republic of Croatia, the estimates from the time of Minister Varga, in order to come very quickly to the value of some EUR 200 million that would be introduced into the health system of the Republic of Croatia and thus allow, not only greater availability of quality medicines to our patients, but also better conditions for the operation of health institutions, as well as certain financial compensations for all those participating in clinical trials. Therefore, this Law brings a whole series of quality solutions, and we support it as a club, and at the same time I stress that it fully relies on the previous Law that we have passed because without quality information, without quality registers to monitor the outcomes of the treatment, we will not be able to obtain clinical trials because it is a prerequisite that must be met to allow someone to conduct clinical trials in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125088	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Zeljka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125089	Thank you. I will, of course, like my colleagues, since we are all doctors, somehow in this communication, have to commend this bill. I'm going to have to commend this bill, not just because we're doctors, but I really think it's excellent for a few reasons. As mentioned above, administrative procedures will be reduced in the approval of clinical trials, which I believe is also important because of those who conduct them, and also because of our own patients who will be involved in clinical trials. What my colleagues did not highlight in this debate, and I would certainly point out, it is all in the Law in the first article, and it has often been mentioned in HS and I think that one form of misunderstanding was, so here I am going to highlight it. Therefore, clinical trials that would result in changes in the genome in the reproductive cells of subjects should not be conducted. And this is what we really need to educate our public. So, not only would people who would participate in such studies, but colleagues who are not close to some medical professions. What I would point out is that from clinical studies we have data from some EU countries, say, Poland uses as much as 30% of medicines to treat malignancies precisely from clinical trials. That's one good piece of information, and I think we could use it in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe we'll do it eventually. What is important to point out, if we look at Belgium, which is more than two billion kunas, which pulls right into clinical trials or, let's say, Denmark, Switzerland, these are all good practices, and I believe that Croatia will be led by the team in the next period, because it is important for us to develop our health system. We know that the health system in our health care is quite difficult and we believe that this way we will allow our doctors and our patients, to conduct health care in a better way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125090	Thank you. There's a replica on your display. Here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125091	Thank you. You said well, therefore, that clinical trials are direct investments in Croatia, in its health system, and if we look at what the secretary of state said, that is, 3 steps, the first central ethical commission, which is now not meeting once in 30, but once in 14 days, the average of the Ministry of Health and the issue of a solution, about 15 days. Now, in fact, there remains this third arrangement with each individual health institution, which is being investigated, it's not possible to regulate after the law, but here's a number of recommendations, I don't know if it's possible from the health ministry that this third step is speeding up, that there really isn't a long wait. We need what you said, first of all, to be a patient and the possibilities of innovation technologies, and that is a challenge for the medical staff, because it is then in contact with the latest scientific achievements.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125092	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125093	Thank you. Here you are right colleague Celic, I believe the ministry will find a solution for this 3 step, because I believe everyone is very interested, especially because we have extremely highly qualified doctors, not only doctors, but other medical staff, who participate in these clinical trials and who can offer very much in our health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125094	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the last colleague is Željko Joavnić, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125095	Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues. I answered in an individual debate with the same question that I talked about a problem in the replica, last time I read it, and I want to stress it again today, namely in art. 18. According to the following, the surveillance inspection shall be carried out by authorised pharmaceutical inspectors of the Ministry, at all clinical trials-related sites, including, where clinical trials are carried out, a laboratory used for analysis of clinical trials, sponsor institutions and contract research organisations or companies involved in the clinical trial and the central ethical committee. Why am I pointing this out? Because it's a job that's very important for our citizens to be sure that all clinical trials are conducted in accordance with good practice, which is done by pharmaceutical inspectors. These pharmaceutical inspectors are also doing everything else that comes out of jurisdiction, from the Health Protection Act, and from my question to the assistant, how many of these pharmaceutical inspectors, since it's important that they can do this kind of responsible work, the answer was that there are two, so by number and letter 2. So my question to the secretary of state, is whether there is an increase in the number of pharmaceutical inspectors, because they definitely can't do the job, but this is how it exists for the sake of order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125096	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the motionary, Secretary of State, here you are, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, to answer my colleagues' question, we have now increased the number of pharmaceutical inspectors to 5 and in our systematization, we still have vacancy, so by recording the needs of pharmaceutical inspectors, we will eventually, if necessary and if the data show additional pharmaceutical inspectors. This in the end, I'd just thank everyone who's... The participation in this discussion, regarding this law, which I hold to be extremely important, because the ministry as such and as a regulatory body, is on the fact and on the point that, as many clinical trials as can be introduced into our hospital institutions, but with those strictly controlled and strictly supervised principles that this law itself has already adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to know one thing, as counterpart Jovanovic also stressed, that Europe as a whole, is a relatively small market, for the field of clinical trials, and the pharmaceutical industry, as such, has moved to other areas of the world where there is a far greater possibility, mmmassive way and involving respondents in this. However, regardless, we will continue as a ministry, and we have shortened the time limit for regulation to 15 days of our consent to continue to keep a thorough account, in the first order, of introducing as many these and clinical trials as possible into our daily practice in our institutions, but with maximum, maximum control and protection of our patients. That's what I wanted to point out in the end and once again I thank everyone for a very constructive, concise and encouraging discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125098	At your final presentation, we have one replica, here's your colleague, Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125099	Thank you. Just one short question at the end, given that there was a debate and there was talk in the media, that some oncological medicines, new oncology medicines, can only be applied in clinics, and not in county hospitals, and that is analogous to the question, as well as to the conduct of clinical trials, whether this is possible only in clinics or in county hospitals, again related to what you said, therefore, to patient safety and the question of possible side effects that can occur in clinical trials and new oncology medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125100	Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125101	I will gladly answer your question, some medicines are given in such a specific way, because it requires very high skill and knowledge of those who use these medicines. I will not now list which medicines and the ways they are given, but available and the technique of taking certain medicines is quite different and requires a highly differentiated and highly educated staff, who know how to handle it and how to use it daily. It's a question of why we do it in those institutions that have so-called. large volume of patients and who have very, very well-trained, educated and trained staff to use such medicines through these special methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125102	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the final draft of the law and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125103	Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 423. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is concluded with the final draft law. I find most of the votes 118 for, 3 abstentions and 1 vote against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125104	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 536; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted accordingly until the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, please welcome Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125105	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs, the chairman. The Law on dealing with illegally built buildings was passed in 2012 and has been amended and completed twice in 2013 and 2017. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings from 2013 was established by the Agency for the Legislation of illegally built buildings for a more effective and faster process of resolving accepted requirements for issuing a solution to the state of play. Both thus and achieving the basis of the purpose of the law, i.e. the legislation of the largest number of illegally built and the alignment of speed or number of resolved requirements throughout the Republic of Croatia. After the expiry of the deadline for submission of the application for a solution on the derivative situation, it was found that 826 000 946 applications were received in the total area of the Republic of Croatia for the issue of that solution. Following the data collected from all competent administrative authorities on the number of resolved applications and the analysis carried out, it has been established that such an extremely large number of competent administrative authorities cannot be mastered in order to carry out regular work and to resolve the cases within a reasonable period of time. The total number of requests solved by all competent administrative authorities since the application of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings was... 6% of the total applications received and as indicated in order to solve them for the next 16 years, and an agency is established to provide solutions to the state of play in cases where the competent administrative authority is unable to resolve within a reasonable period of time due to a large number of cases it has been working on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Agency began its work on 1 February 2014 and the law prescribed that it is the same temporary character and that it ceases to work on the law of buildings. In short, according to the review of the cases processed after the adoption of the 2012 law, up to 30.6.2013 was submitted at the level of the Republic of Croatia 826 thousand 946 applications and another 74 thousand 945 applications were submitted, totalling 900 thousand and 2 applications. Of the total number mentioned, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, it was legally resolved and entered in the register on today's day 689 thousand 295 requests and the Agency solved 105 thousand 772 requests or 15% of all total solutions. The total direct revenues of the solutions adopted so far and the fees for keeping buildings in the area under this law amount to a billion and 692 million to which revenue should be added under other laws, which are revenues from the municipal fee and water contribution paid during the legislation. Indirectly, the law and its effective implementation thanks to the work of the agency, the contribution to society is much greater in view of the large number of illegal buildings found in the area and the awareness-raising of citizens in relation to illegal construction and the ability to obtain EU funds for farmers who have successfully legalised their buildings From those billions and 692 million kunas according to the legal distribution of incomes to 20% of local administration and agency units, depending on whom they solve the subject 30% on the regional administration and 50% of the Republic of Croatia, respectively, after the 2017 novel, where relations at 30:30:40 were changed, so after the distribution of income 507 million kuna has been allocated to local and regional administration. As regards the work of the Agency itself, from the total number of applications submitted, the Agency has taken over 145 thousand requests from February 2014 to May 2018 and a total of 113 thousand rightful and inadmissible solutions have been made, i.e. 78%. Of these, 76,000 solutions were rejected, rejected or waived by the parties themselves. The total number is expected to be returned to the local authorities for about 35,000 requests. The Agency's obligation is to record all illegally built buildings for which solutions have been issued on the implementation of the spatial planning information system based on the solution to be entered in the register of issued solutions. On 31.12.2018, 741 thousand buildings were recorded in the information system, which were covered by 442 thousand solutions issued on the state of play. There's no cca yet. 80,000 issued solutions. The maximum number of employees the Agency had in January 2016, 214, while today there are 106 and all are employed at a certain time according to the temporary character of the Agency. By the end of 2018, the agency charged 214 million kuna for the solutions issued, 64 million kuna or 30% of them to local administration. The Agency's revenues have been going around for years. Since 2014 3 million and 600 kuna, 2015 14 million and 500, 2016 13 million, 2017 8 and 2018 4 million, a total of 44 million kuna. Following the decline of the Agency's activities and related revenues, it is concluded that there is no need for further existence of the Agency which has fully completed its task and part of the unsettled history in our space has ended. This Law addresses issues related to the implementation of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 2 August 2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies, Institutes, Funds, Institutes and Foundations and other legal entities with public authority, which is scheduled to suspend the Agency's work from 1 July 2019. The adoption of the proposed Law will, therefore, cease with the Agency's work on 1 July 2019, order the completion of the decision on the state of play, arrange the return of the case and return to completion by local competent offices and arrange the acquisition of material resources towards the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. The implementation of this Act does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. The adoption of this Act is proposed by an urgent procedure for particularly justified reasons. In order to implement the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reduction of the number of the Agency, or in order for the Agency concerned to cease its work within the time limit set out in that conclusion, and in order to deal with the procedures and issues related to the termination of work, this Act should be adopted in an urgent manner. And at the end of this opening presentation, I would publicly thank the director of Jasminki Kecanović Šimec, in the name of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. ing. Arch, as well as all employees of the Agency at work who have invested in their work and done this great work that often crosses the frameworks of working time and the usual engagement in the public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125106	Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first is colleague Vedran Babic, please welcome colleague Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125107	.../Speaker off/...and green and red, now it's good. So, my question is this, since, here, is the amendment of the Act ending the work of the Agency 1.7, do you have an estimate of how long this legalization process will take, as we have called it, since some of the cases have been resolved and can you tell us about the area of which the county agency or cities of the Agency has done most of the cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125108	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125109	Thank you very much for asking. The agency has taken over all items from all over the Republic of Croatia. At this point I do not have an overview of all the county and all the cities, it is publicly published and is regularly updated on the website of the Ministry of Construction. And what's important, therefore, is 82% of the cases have been done, and what's left is mostly the items that are in addition or at some end, so it's really expected to end the whole process soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125110	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125111	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, illegal construction is a serious problem in the Republic of Croatia, and I have answered the line because of the total problem of illegal construction. The state authorities have not proved to be effective or effective in preventing illegal construction. Even after legalisation and after extension of deadlines, legalisation remains unlawfully built, especially in the coastal area. I will let myself say that it turns out that the government of the Republic of Croatia is knowingly and tacitly giving the green light to the lawless builders that, without any problems and without any sanctions, they can continue to build illegally. The problem of illegal construction needs to be addressed spotlessly and at the very beginning and in the place where it occurs, and this government definitely does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125112	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125113	Thank you very much for reminding us that a continuous fight against illegal construction is needed, as we all know, the space is the most valuable resource of our country. That this government is working intensively on these issues is an example of Žnjana and how it was cleaned up in Split, which for years was not the strength to clean up. Therefore, the irrevocably built buildings in space and those who are illegal builders shall be permanently removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125114	Replica No. Three, colleague Chikotic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125115	Dear Secretary of State, I haven't seen the information from your report regarding the denied transfers for incomplete and reason incomplete, so, documentation. In July and August, more than 30 citizens from Slavonia and Baranja, socially endangered citizens, came to me because they didn't actually have the money to invest in the documentation. Their young people moved away, left, homes lost their youth, they stayed in some places. What will happen to them, whether there will be an extension of the deadlines for re-legislation in these cases, and, unfortunately, it is a great majority of citizens who have been denied this because they did not have the means, in fact, to invest money, to legalise their facilities, they will not be able to report and use EUR 30 million available from the EU Funds, and we are aware that more than 47% of single households are at risk of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125116	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125117	Thank you very much. I cannot agree with your data that they will remain without EUR 30 million because we do not have proof of such an analysis of you and I am not sure that it is properly connected because you are talking about the single population and not about some owners, if they do not have the funds, then they are certainly not businessmen and this issue of dilemma is the eternal issue of our society, whether the person who is illegal should be helped to legalise or finally have to bear the costs of his illegal treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125118	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125119	Thank you very much. In the Republic of Croatia building permits for base stations or antenna pillars do not need and are placed on illegally built buildings such as the example of Radumić at Sinj and the state tolerates it. Only in the Republic of Croatia construction permits do not require construction permits in the Republic of Croatia base stations or antenna pillars, therefore teleopers have the highest profit. And these base stations are placed overnight next to kindergartens, with hospitals on illegally built facilities, and you tolerate it. I have made changes to the Construction Act that base stations like throughout Europe, as a whole in Europe, must have a building permit because it is a huge damage to the Republic of Croatia and on our area which we do not protect and are not equal to teleopers that in their own countries are making huge money. What did you do about it and I gave... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125120	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125121	Thank you very much for the opportunity to respond to what we have done and how the whole system works. So it's not true and it's impossible that some sort of phenomenon exists because the base station can't be placed on an illegal facility because it's automatically illegal. The law and the Regulation on simple buildings make it perfectly clear that the base stations are set up to require a major project that is in line with the spatial plan. If the local administration has developed such a spatial plan that is permitted and allows the installation of these base stations, then it cannot be worked past the spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125122	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125123	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break to talk about this topic of illegally built objects. In this case, setting up base stations and disabling the secretary after setting up the base stations on an illegally built building, this is an example of Radusic at Sinj where the base station was for 3 years and where your ministry at the end of the inspection, after numerous protests, after numerous detentions, I participated, after what the police were protecting and who set up base stations overnight was proven to have no building permit facility. And today there's this base station. They're putting base stations in space wherever they think of it. From hospitals, from kindergartens, from various health institutions, wherever they think of it. And only in the Republic of Croatia for base stations does not need i.e. The antenna pillars don't need a building permit. I've made changes to the Construction Act. And the truth is that you confirmed it. Check out Radusic's example at Sinj's base station. You lie and deceive the public. You're guessing teleopers with the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, 42%. While in Europe they have 20%. And in Serbia, they need a building permit, and in Montenegro, not only in the EU, only with us base stations set up without construction permits. Even in most Republics, the right of service is not needed. Sorry, they don't need the neighbor's consent. Overnight by kindergarten, by the dormitory. That could happen to you, too. Just take a look at the list, the Croatian magnetic radiation protection association warned about this. Look at the list of illegal base stations. Even in the bell towers, they put them overnight and hide them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125124	Thank you. So, fellow Bull, in accordance with Article 248 and Article 3, you're actually looking for a club meeting and consultation to discuss this point, right? Excellent. So I'm giving you a break from here on out, we'll say, 12 minutes, we'll continue at 12 and 15 minutes. Thank you. MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS Okay. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.18 HOURS]] We continue on the final proposal of the Law amending the law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 536. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague of Jelkovac, a colleague of Topolko's? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the debate will be shared by counterpart Cikotic and counterpart Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125126	Dear colleagues and colleagues. By creating handicapped documents, we create uncertainty, uncertainty, a place of manipulation for individuals and not interests. I'm here today talking about shutting down an agency that was supposed to conduct legalization procedures of objects, illegally built objects, but I'm here to also warn about reality. I'm obliged to warn you, and I'm curious to know how many requests have been denied for reasons of incomplete documentation. In fact, how many of these requirements and users were reported to me during July and August, poor people, socially endangered people, people of nursing households who thus simply submitted the request and did not actually submit all the necessary documentation because they had no money to make. I am interested in how many such requests have been rejected for these reasons of incomplete documentation. What will happen to them and how will they legalise their facilities? Today, we have a report from the attorney general that 10% of citizens are actually exposed to energy poverty and we actually have a situation that an increasing number of citizens are at risk of poverty, and in particular 47% are those that mean single households. I'm interested, so what's going to happen to these endangered citizens who aren't then in any request when the first request went, the wave of legalisation, or in the second wave of legalisation, had the money to actually file that request and collect the necessary documentation. What's going to happen to their facilities? And one more thing, I have been meaning to say since 2014 we have had 30 million euros at our disposal for the energy reconstruction of family homes. This contest was scheduled to take place at the end of December 2018, we delayed it if I am not mistaken for the 5th month of 2019. These citizens who have illegally built buildings, so we're not talking about fairies here, I'm not talking about objects that are on maritime goods, I'm talking about Slavonia moving out where youth has left off means of these households and where actually these nursing households don't have the money to legalize those facilities. I'm interested in how they will forever, permanently stay off to actually improve their material status through investing in energy recovery. Because non-legalised facilities cannot be reported to these energy efficiency measures. I'm interested in what the Ministry is going to do and whether it's thinking about what it's going to do means with socially endangered citizens who have fallen homes, energy very likely, at least what they've come to me, they don't mean enough energy-protected, have low incomes and how people will legalize their facilities. I'm not talking about fairies, I'm not talking about I don't know, on the maritime good, and I'm talking about people all over Croatia who just don't have the money to pay for that legalisation. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125127	Thank you. Continuing, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125128	Thank you very much. When we talk about illegal buildings built in space and when the secretary says that I'm telling the truth just now, and the space is the most valuable thing we have and we need to keep it, and for that it is the very competent ministry that is here, but the fact is that in the Republic of Croatia I will repeat it once again, the Athens pillars and base stations can only be placed in Croatia, throughout Europe, only in Croatia without a building permit. This warns us of the global association of mobile operators where base stations are placed on illegal facilities. I mentioned an example in the search for a break, the same is happening in Zadar where the church bell tower is placed on the base station, where it is placed on kindergartens, schools, buildings, wherever they think of it in most of the Republic of Croatia. Radaca's example at Sinja was set up base station in 2014 after numerous protests, police were protecting to set up a base station and was set up overnight. In accordance with the rules, the current rulebook on simple and other buildings and works on the completed family house with the violation of the GUP of Sinj. Despite the multiple requirements for inspection supervision, the construction inspection only responded after a multiple request by the Ombudsman, it entered the field in November mean after 2.5 years, after 3 years almost 2017 and in February 2017 it made a solution to the removal of that base station within 120 days, which means that from February until now, a year has passed. And that base station that's illegally set up still stands. I even wrote a letter to the Ambassador of Sweden, and I didn't get an answer, whether these teleopers behave like that in Sweden, Germany, so they don't come. We don't protect our space, we don't protect it and that's why, and warns of a worldwide association of mobile operators, which is being combined, registered... Base stations all over the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is the only country in which a building permit is required, I repeat, the only one of only 4 in Europe, along with Romania, Slovakia and Portugal, where no... local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So local self-government doesn't need consent, citizens around the location, the only one around who doesn't need permission... capacity and upgrade of existing locations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, you claim to the secretaries that I'm telling the truth and that the teleopers are breaking the law. I'll list it for you, and in the case of the Sinja group, it says that 50 meters can't set the base station and the antenna pillar and it's set 10 meters from the house. He gave this violation to the GUP, the rule of simple and other construction works. And that's why I put the law in the process. We ask nothing more than that the same teleoperators behave in our space, as they behave in countries where they come from, no less or less, it is our right to be respected secretaries, the Republic of Croatia, the modern right of teleopers to behave and have the same legal obligations they have in other countries, where they come from. And that's why using our space, you see, here, when you come to the cultural good, you'll see in the cliché state what a base station, larger than a Croatian mast, a clik fortress, our brand, history. I told the bell towers, in the middle of the settlements, hiding, hiding in some kind of fumble, in the chimneys they make. So only in my town do we have, in the center of town, at the post office, 50 meters from the post office where they live in a circle, I don't know, 10,000 people and it's recently placed on a chimney, from a former bakery that doesn't work anymore, so it's on Pigs, people are opposed, so in Zapresic, so it's in Kaštel, so it's in Zadar, where they don't belong. And we can't talk about the order of our space and the preservation of our environment if foreign teleopers are allowed by you, to behave like that, it takes three years for a construction inspection to come here, that it must write the first neighbor, that I must hold a break a hundred times as a parliamentary representative, before... So the police were doing their job, but the police were taking us to the police, and the police had the expense of coming and defending it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the huge devastation of our space, I said on this point, of objects that aren't, so they don't have a useful building permit, they're setting up base stations. Why don't you want to handle it? I've given, I repeat, the law, changes to the Construction Act, where the base stations or the Athens pillars should have a building permit. I'm just expecting that answer from you, denying you where you said it was false, I'm going to deliver solutions to you from a construction inspection, which she said was an illegal base station, which she confirmed in her solution, after 3 years of fighting, after several times that the public defender had to be manifested, after numerous protests, which is why the question arises, I guess, why do you favor teleopers? It's not that story, we want Croatia back in the stone age, no, we just want the teleoperators, not to use our space at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And damage to the budget in the end. Because to do these projects properly, to use distances, then we should do project documentation, we should set up infrastructure, and if they find an object near kindergarten, end of school, or in the city center, and we know that much more radiation, the World Health Organization, but this is confirmed by the profession in the Republic of Croatia, and mainly experts from the Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions, that 890 times more radiation is allowed in the Republic of Croatia, but an example, rather than in Paris or Austria, or I don't know where. Besides not paying for the first service, we're still giving them room to use it however they want. I don't know why you're here a few minutes ago. That's why I asked for a break. I said I was telling the truth. That's not false, I justify you we have a record of where the building inspection told you after 3 years that it was illegally placed and I expect you, if you don't have the courage, I expect, is not the President of the Parliament, but here is the President of the Parliament, to put on the agenda the point of the agenda that I have given, that in the Construction Act there is a building permit for base stations, as it is throughout Europe and as it is in the countries where teleopers come from. After my usurpation, after my warning that it suits the biggest teleoperator, that EVO TV that is owned by the post office, Croatian property, is now stopped, I saw in the media, because it was shown among 54, I hope that we will protect Croatia's national interest here, and not listen to the directives from Merkelica, to protect their teleoperators from having the highest profits in the Republic of Croatia. This is our place to guard, because it's more important that our space protects our space than Angela Merkel's interests and her telegrapher. We must all have the same conditions on the market, I agree with that, but it is not enough that our policies have put our national interest in telecommunications into their possession. We, they, the teleoperators, are devastationing our space, to the detriment of the Republic of Croatia, and for the gain of these foreign teleopers that are being pulled out of Croatia. I would ask you to answer this question, I would ask here and the president of the club will be Mr. Bačić HDZ as the ruling largest party, which is why there will be no amendments to the law, which I gave half a year ago, where the base stations should have as in all states a building permit, base stations or antenna pillars, and most of all from you executive authorities is your obligation under the Constitution to protect the interests and territory of the Republic of Croatia, and thus space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125129	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the clubs, following is colleague Branko Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here's a colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, since my colleague Bulj called me, I'll say a few things. So, back in 2011, as a minister, we adopted a rule on simple structures, which is a regulation and later on it seems to me to be changed, found that such cells can be set up if they have a project and if they are not opposed to spatial planning documentation. From 2011 on, according to the report of a number of citizens of the city of Dubrovnik, we then made a solution to the removal of a significant number of base stations in Gruž, before in the part of Šipčina and I was supposed to act on that solution by then. Therefore, it is not true that they cannot be set as they are and that, as certain operators wish, they must already have certain documentation to do so and ultimately obtain a useful permit so that the base station can be released into operation. Where they are set up contrary to this Regulation without the opposite spatial planning documentation if they do not have the permission to use it then it is perfectly legitimate for citizens living in that space to submit a request and anyone else, and even a construction inspection, to act in that sense, in a way that removes such facilities, but now to return to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings. We support this law at the Club of HDZ Representatives, these amendments to the law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, which is practically abolished by the Agency for the Law of illegally built buildings, which was founded in 2013. I will only briefly say that the basic law, the first law passed in my time, if so I can say when I was minister, was adopted in 2011, and as a basis for its implementation until today, an aerophotogravimetric video of the entire Republic of Croatia with the date of 21 June when the state of the facilities of all objects was established, and then illegally built them buildings in the area of the Republic of Croatia. So, to the previous replica of my colleague Sponze, I agree, a construction inspection is required to react urgently, spotlessly while the facility is still in the ground, before certain funds are invested in its construction and the construction inspection needs to be responded. However, today, when we own an aerophotogravitary video from 21 June 2011 it is very simple to determine whether this object is legal or illegal and today can be handled, clearly at the expense of an illegal builder, if without a building permit, without a building act, did any construction in the Republic after that deadline. This law, which was passed in 2011, was something more complicated than the law that came in 2012, but in my view, this complication finally allowed the lawless builder to be included in the land book, in addition to the legalisation of his building, which was not the case in 2012, was the goal of the then government, which was to legitimately simplify the process, speed up the process, to make several classifications of buildings on their surface, simplify the documentation and speed up, speed up the implementation of illegal construction in Croatia or legalisation. It was perfectly legitimate, but the fact that today after this big procedure we will have legalized objects, but still they will not be, much of them I don't know how well it would be for the ministry to know how much it is based on this law, except that we've solved somewhere around 670,000 of objects, about 67,000 objects, how many of these objects have completed the procedure of enrolment in a cadastre, enrollment in a land book, and how many solutions have been issued that guarantee, until then, the lawless builder that since the issue of the solution is now actually the owner of a legal object. I was against, in 2013, after we found out that by the deadline that was prescribed was around 824, 5, 6 thousand demands it was a huge job which, which meant a great engagement of administrative departments was the units of local self-government, there were county administrative departments although in this moment I am using the opportunity there was already a question of colleagues Babic who were the best in implementation, the implementation of this law, I think that the city of Dubrovnik solved 100% 89.99% of the demands but there are also many other cities, then both Poreč and County have over ten, four five percent of the total legalized facilities. In doing so, it should be said that, clearly, the Agency has also performed its role, but on the other hand, what should also be said, there is a county where this number is huge, 50, 60 thousand, but there are also those where it is much smaller, only a few hundred. So not all the county and all the cities had the same job ahead of them. When we talk about legalization, then every time I mention, therefore, that in the Republic of Croatia this was the fourth procedure or the fifth legalisation procedure. The first legalisation was 68th year, when it was made possible, it was a general legalisation, when it was allowed for all illegally built buildings to be entered into a land-book cadastre with a fundamental condition that was good for me, and that was settled property legal relations. The second legalisation project was in 1992, with the legalization of illegal objects, was not particularly successful, it did not get results. The third time we received some large figures in terms of legalization and the fourth legalization was in 2011 and 2012 with the amended Law, so we can say that, I also support the club in clear support of this project, despite the fact that in many of our fellow citizens it caused a sense of inequality before the Constitution, someone is building, paying for it, getting permission, paying for the designer, projects, etc., all neatly paid, while someone else who did nothing with one very simple procedure, with much less needed money, legalized the object that is next to the facility... The object, but the fact is that this legalisation was created through the will of lawless builders, but also, I would say, by an inadequate response and the state's approach to illegal construction and in a certain way and by the state's responsibility, the greatest responsibility for the fact that such an illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia has indeed taken place. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when I talk about what I was talking about and then, I was more inclined when we ran the Agency that instead of hiring a number of people in the agencies, so many schedules throughout the Republic of Croatia by single administrative departments, by administrative departments, by those in the county, by those in large cities, it might be a little longer, I won't say, but maybe not that we've made that number of employees, so much legalisation work possible for the units of the regional self-government and local self-government units, or the large cities that have acted under this Act. But today we are where we are, the job has been brought to an end, as far as we've seen, the Agency has solved some 105 000 and 15% of the total number of legalized objects, and it has contributed to legalization. The remaining number of cases according to the government's assessment and the rest of the ministry will be able to deal with the administrative departments in the counties and cities and the Agency will leave them with these jobs, and now they will clearly continue to do their jobs, though, now with much less cases, because I say, a large part of these cases are already resolved, so that we at the Representatives' Club support the bill that abolishes the Agency with, I think, on the 1st of July 2019, unsettled items will be returned to where they came from, i.e. in unique legal departments. What I also wanted to say was a few words because the law is very short and implies a single provision, which is the abolition of the Agency. This is the fact that when we proposed the Law in 2011 we were convinced that we would use the means of legalization differently. I also understand the measures, the demands, whether they were political or not, when we said that we would allow people who were building illegally to be a much lower price of space retention fees and even went in favor of illegal builders through payment of communal contributions and water compensation, which such a grocer did not have legal builders. I understand that it had to be done, that it was a huge job that we had to finish to solve the traumas of many of the owners of their illegal buildings, which is to solve the constitution of their apartment, the issue of roof over their heads, but the fact that, and according to what the secretary of state said, are we ultimately satisfied with the effects of legalization itself. In fact, there was, it was directly intended to allow the funds of legalisation, legalisation fees, to enable units of local self-government, and also to the State Geodetic Authority to enter into the improvement of spatial plans, to define spatial plans, to edit and assist in the restoration of catasters and land books, because one of the reasons for such large illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia, is the fact that unregulated property legal relations. As the assumption of the existence of a building act is resolved property legal relations, often, and it can also be expensive through resolution, through the Croatian judiciary, registration to its property can often be expensive and long-term. I do not justify the lawless builders, but in a certain way they also resorted for these reasons, besides others, but also for those reasons of lawless construction. That's why we held back then, whether it was our thinking that for this reason, that the money that the state collects from illegal construction, as one of the reasons for this illegal construction, unsettled property law, that the funds that will settle through the fees to keep the facilities in place, were returned to editing these two basic land records, catasters and land books, we did not do so. It is good at the end that the Government went with the Law on Geodetic Measurement of Real Estates, which determines one accelerated time, in which time should be made a new cadastre and a land book, is scheduled for a period of 10 years, we expect the Government to adopt a programme of accelerated geodetic measurements and real estate cataster as soon as possible to take care of a cadastre and a land book that practically keeps records and about these facilities. Through this process, we could compensate for the fact that this law makes up a large number of objects that we have legalized remain as far as the catastra and the land books are concerned, the owners, as I said earlier, have their own solutions that their objects are legalized but they are still not, are not visible in these two basic records, so the good thing is that the government takes a fast pace in making a new cataster and land books where these objects will then be an integral part of the cataster and the land books, and in this way finally we fix that record without which, I have said so many times, there are no investments, there are no questions of our citizens. In any case, a disaster, a new disaster and a new land book enables local self-government units to immediately increase their original income by about 30%, at least thus showing the experience we have in local self-government units that have completely taken care of the cadastre and the land book. To conclude, we at the club will support this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on illegally built buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125131	Thank you, colleagues, Bacic. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125132	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. Here we are facing the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments, the additions of the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings. First I'm going to say something that I usually say at the end, and that's the provision of Article 3. It's defined that the items will start coming back with January 15th. Since I wasn't at the opening presentation of the Secretary of State, so if he said something on that trail I apologized there would be an amendment and I expect it to be the amendment of the Government that you prepared because this 15th January was probably on the trail of being due until January 1st, or that the contingent of last year should have been about the law, and then I expect it to be the amendment of the Government that will define that date, or the return of the case, to define a little different since we are today on January 23rd. When it comes to illegally built buildings, then, of course, nothing begins with this law. This law is just a consequence of something else. And you need to see a little bit of what it even means to build an illegal building in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Bully also spoke about base stations, as he was gone, and I won't refer to it, but this is the Law on illegally built buildings and as such was set up. When you get into one such project at all, then you need to know what the point is and why you're going. On the one hand, when you little analyze the illegal construction in Croatia and when it was created, the main part of the illegal construction when it came to the sea was headed there in the 1970s or highways, the Adriatic highway was launched into traffic since '65. until '67. Depends on where. The country at the time was open to foreigners, i.e. it allowed the possibility of foreigners to arrive, and then suddenly this attractiveness of the coast became absolutely great and a lot of illegal construction was created. The second wave of illegal construction is there somewhere beyond the 1990s, just like the last century, after these traumas that Croatia had since the war. The moment you happen to have some people coming in who need to deal with their housing issues. When you go a little deeper into the analysis of illegal construction, then those who deal with it from different aspects state four reasons for illegal construction. One reason for illegal construction is the lack of spatial plans and all the necessary documentation, so that's the result. The second reason is slow licensing, so someone's been waiting for a license for two and three years, and you can't say there's no reason then, after three years of waiting for a license he can get says I don't care I'm going to build now because I can't wait any longer, I can't wait to put the kids in school and everything else. The third reason is economic because somehow it's said when it's illegally building and then it's something cheaper. That economic reason is very questionable. And the fourth reason is actually a social one when, at the very end of that time, the municipality and the state were also someone who was staring at illegal construction. When for the needs of workers, so for the needs of factories you needed workers, you needed labour. Some factories really shared land and there were some houses crumbling and you weren't at all then the topic had licenses, no permits and everything else. In one, this is about a serious project. This is what we're talking about, so when we talk about this law, about a project that's been based on a few things, to draw a line, that line is 21.6.2011, and everything that's been done before to get the legalization conditions. The other thing was for the procedure to be simple and for the procedure to be quick, that the procedure would not go away again for years because it wouldn't make sense. The third reason for it all together was what was missed and what was important, to put out clear defensive lines, not to have any further illegal constructions, to create conditions for the inspector to be quick, to be operational, to get on the ground and to react at the moment when it starts construction. The moment the house is finished, when the house is moved in, when you already have furniture and people living in that house, so I have to admit that it was personally ugly for me when you knock down the ready houses, houses that even have a facade that I don't even have to say we had houses where there's still some storage facilities, furniture stands, there are some things that no one will take over, and thus admits that he was there and would have to bear some consequences. So there's this line of defense that you're reacting right now. The defence line of reaction is immediately missed and should be made clear. So the inspection didn't do her job even though she had a condition and she had the possibility, it was the idea of the communal directors that they... records of someone starting to work, building with a construction inspection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I'm afraid, in this sense, when it comes to doing a great inspectorate, is that now it's about a waste of time, because it's thinking about who's going, and how it's going, and when it's re-functioning the building inspection, it's going to be a little late. But this was, therefore, a waste of time and it really needs to be taken seriously, because the meaning of the data that we have, therefore, Croatia has recorded what was recorded on 21 June 2011, has this data recorded. You can get satellite maps today, which automatically record any construction works, whatever happened, so you should just be operational, but I'd like to say, all of this is what you should want together. Likewise, we have set up, therefore, in law and was set up which deadlines for submitting requests, I always tell, always some good stories, from simple, because those stories are real to you. At one point was my colleague who was good we were, we were studying together, he called me, about a month before the deadline for applying those first demands and said, I heard that it would extend the deadline. I say, look, it won't. Well, I heard that we were teaching because at that point, it was no longer possible to fabricate all the necessary documentation, says whether or not to submit the request. I say, I'm the Ministry's principle, I'm sure we won't extend the deadline, and you see right. Good practice for all of us was that in the 6th month. and 20163 was, I remember well, they were crazy, all the offices, all the manuals, because there were requests and requests. There are pictures of you, therefore, of Croatia's EU accession, and in the City of Zagreb, the city's, the service log works until midnight and there are lines of people who submit the request without saying that the orders were also at the post office, to submit the request by midnight 30 June 2013. So that's what he always thinks, so never mind, he will be. What I'm saying is, it's not good that the building inspection didn't do its job, it's not good to work, for the simple reason that they're conscious, all of our citizens, says, so there's no connection, now I'm going to do it, so there's gonna be someone there in 10-15 years to re-enter the legalization project. It's just not good. I've heard countless times from the number of citizens, who said, it's your fault, thinking of ours who worked in, for the state, or, at the time, I was also a minister's restaurant before, which I'm an lawless builder, because you didn't react. So, the state's unresponsiveness, in a certain way, encouraged illegal construction, that's a little harshly said, but there's also some truth. The same way in this number of resolved requests we have to be up to the end of the operation and say the following, it's not in all cases about the whole house, it's about the upgrades, it's about the upgrades, it's about some things that, for example, the closing of the logs was a special story, when you turn the logs into an active living space. So there were really all kinds of things, and in these solved cases there are all kinds of things. Why the agency? So the idea was to legalize the next one, to hire people where illegal construction was created, that these people who are there are actually received for a certain time and to deal with legalization, because the point was to get rid of legalization quickly, because if you go to solve it over the next 15 years, you bury all the offices, with the documentation, it won't make any sense anymore. And we visited all of Croatia then, we visited all the offices, which county cities that had and we saw that the picture, as Croatia is different, is like different my 5 or your 5 fingers on your hand, so the office's preparedness was different. They were offices that went straight away, they took a student service, they took people on a certain level, they agreed on a way that they were on the ground, the others were going through the paperwork, the third was writing solutions, and there were offices that were very inert. And then we decided that we had to have an opportunity at the state level to establish an agency that would do the job. One mayor at that time was a mayor, now it's not, if I said, what's today, we'd know what it's about, so I won't, he told me, we won't be doing that legalization to you, and you'll never start an agency. I said, okay, make up your mind. We will create conditions for the items to be solved. The items can be handled with you, or the items can be handled at the agency. When he saw that the seriousness of the whole project, it was one of the counties that was better and took the job and was one of the better. The agency was founded for reasons, which really, you should have leveled all of Croatia and that was its purpose. And in that agency people were employed for a certain time, and when they were employed, they were known to be related to the job. The resolution ministry apparently estimated that the agency, that the time had come for the agency to stop its work, had stopped with 1st of July, so there were all, people who were employed, knew that they were employed on a particular project and I think that the model was good. If you have some kind of project, if you want to realize it, if you want to realize it in a fast time, then create all the conditions for this project to really be realized, that when you tell people, you'll be employed at this job and it's an opportunity for someone to learn some work and then get the conditions for going to work either in public administration or in some municipalities and cities, county, ministry and everything else, and that's good. I have to admit that my idea was really next, that the agency was dealing with buildings for one moment, d then only a part remains, to pass the Law on Legalization of Unclassified Infrastructure, and that the Agency was done by the end for a year or two of the illegally built infrastructure, because what you need to know and what we're talking about all the time, we really have when you take all that hill of those unclassified roads that are unclassified roads, hill and some other infrastructure objects, that I'm not saying all those moguls, certain malls, even a part of the coast, we even part of the marinas, we have an illegal, they don't have the proper documentation, it was the purpose to adopt such a law as to do so through such one law, the Ministry as I know has the idea that such law is being passed and that it is absolutely legitimate that anyone who manages the individual portfolios their work according to how they can do it, and how they can make it. Since it really was the purpose of the agency that it was working until a certain time and there's no reason why I don't trust the Ministry that July 1st is just enough to get it done and that they're dealing with all the facts that are on the ground and in that sense we won't be against, we at the GLASs Club and HSU against this because the whole idea was what it was, but I have to repeat it again. There were supposed to be clear defensive lines. It was necessary to create a condition that illegal construction really responds immediately, should be responded immediately. Croatia is a relative, not relatively but a really small country. That you react immediately and immediately remove immediately or they must remove themselves, in Istria, these in Slavonia, will know that ever you see operatives out there and do it, the same moment you feel on the ground. In other words, it's been missed for a while, it wouldn't be good if we really had a story of illegal construction again because then the message that's being sent to the state, the central state is, it doesn't matter, you don't really have to respect the regulations, work and use the space you want and there'll be opportunities when we solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125133	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. The next colleague, Vedran Babic, is in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Comrade Babic, please, take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125134	Thank you, Vice President. Dear secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the proposal for a law amending the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, and I am pleasantly surprised that this debate has caused other debates, long debates, but where colleagues and colleagues have referred to what is not the subject of the debate itself because the subject of the debate is the agency that has conducted or assisted in legalisation and in our counties and cities. I tried to find out who needed help most, but basically it doesn't matter. I honestly expected that agency to do essentially more work. Fifteen percent of certain items have essentially reduced this whole, even called the legalisation campaign for some less than a year, but since even this long time period of legalization is already good, we can say for more than five years, let's say that maybe it wasn't, the legalisation itself would have lasted longer so that all those who couldn't find the financial resources to legalize at this time might have found it in due time or not, but here, I agree with my colleague Mrak-Taritash who said that the campaign itself legalization was in the sense that after 21. Six. 2011 underlines the line regarding the illegal construction itself in Croatia and I believe that in some way it is undermined because it is simply such that because it is a profession for them and I simply hear what people are saying about this topic that illegal construction is becoming less and less, regardless of all these negative examples that are constantly happening but in a much, much smaller scale than the campaign itself which is here, I would say even started during the time of being Minister Bačić. Development for illegal construction, here are some listed but even talked about intensity when it existed, then we can say that it's from II. svt. The war with us unfortunately constant in a smaller or larger scale and I definitely think that this law and all the procedures that were parallelly conducted with it have brought something positive in Croatia and that it is less illegal to build and that by simply implementing that legislation it is simply that we have changed the consciousness of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens to simply avoid illegal construction and note, the building permit has always been necessary and in some ways I regret those people who have simply tortured and issued building permits in accordance with all the regulations, paid even more than many have now paid in this legalisation process and followed the legal rules that they were in some way and damaged because someone could have built houses and past the spatial plan and legalized... and pay for it and some relatively small penalty given the investment that was there and managed to legalize its facility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in all, we can say that the agency has, no matter what, fulfilled its purpose, helped legalize illegally built buildings, and here I sincerely hope that regardless of these negative cases that are constants, that the awareness of citizens has changed in principle, that people are now looking for a building permit, that they simply don't dare go into illegal construction, because if we essentially failed, then this law was ad hoc and it's solved something that should be solved because all normal Western world on illegal construction and looking at other ways than what we've essentially looked at all these years. Not to be too long, the SDP Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125135	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next up is a colleague of Bernarda Topolko in front of the Club of HNS Representatives, please welcome colleague Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125136	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this bill, i.e. amendments to the law on the conduct of illegally built buildings, which is carried out by emergency procedure. In view of the large number of illegally built buildings, after the expiry of the deadline for submission of the application for an execution solution, it was found that more than 800,000 requests for a solution were received on 30 June 2013 and that the Agency was established to deliver solutions on the state of play in cases where the competent authority is not able to deliver those solutions within a reasonable period of time. It is also prescribed that the agency has a temporary character and ceases the work of completing building law. A total of 902 901 requests were received from the Agency from February 2014 to May 2018. The Agency’s revenue on 31.12.2018 was 43.913.000,00. Since the agency has carried out its task, that is, it has been processed according to the Agency's 99.41% report, there is no longer a need to work the same. On 2 August 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded a reduction in the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority. Those conclusions have been planned to end the Agency's work since 01 July 2019. The questions of the workers here agency do not need to be regulated by these laws because the agency's workers work on the basis of a contract of work concluded at a specified time, i.e. until the Agency's work is terminated. The Agency employed 110 workers from 31.12.2018. The consequences resulting from the adoption of this law are that, as of 1 July 2019, the Agency for the Law of illegally built buildings will cease to work. The decision on the state of play will be prescribed, the return of the case will be arranged and the completion by the place of the competent authorities, the takeover of the material assets will be arranged, the allocation and the purpose of the compensation for buildings authorised by the Agency for a decision on the state of play, which will be paid after the Agency has ceased its work. It is necessary that this law enters into force as soon as possible, i.e. before the Agency's work is completed and that time be allowed to the Agency to provide all the files, cases for the solutions made for the state of play to competent administrative authorities in whose territory the buildings have been illegally built. The Agency will also include files of cases in which no solution has been reached and return to the competent authority, the proposal of the law has been set out since 15 January 2019 and ends by 20 June 2019 at the latest. Since the law cannot be applied retroactively, the HNS Club will submit an amendment of the technical nature, i.e. to replace the words ‘on the date of entry into force of this law’. The Agency will pass on the funds and documentation to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act, the Government will comply with the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, and within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Regulation. The term of office of the Director of the Agency and the members and the President of the Management Board of the Agency shall be suspended on the day of registration of the Agency's removal. The law on the treatment of illegally built buildings was in discussion with the interested public and there were no objections to it. As I mentioned at the outset, the HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125137	Thank you, colleagues. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125138	Thank you, Vice-President of HS, the distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, here, in a brief debate I will try to say the main things that I think are important now that this process is being brought to an end. Now we don't know when he's definitely going to be done, but it's coming to an end, and we're going to support, of course, the adoption of this law, otherwise it can't be, the Agency has done its job, according to this, as we've seen from the reports, successfully, so, given the government's plan to abolish the Agency, that's, well, let's say, a good thing that we have one less, and it's a good thing that she did the job. However, what would be valid in the context of this Act is the fact that it is the Law that was passed in 2012 which covered the period from 15.2.68 to 21.6/11, therefore, 43 years of construction in the Republic of Croatia and according to this number of requirements, it is about 800, 900 000 objects, therefore, it is a huge amount. It would be interesting to know how many objects were legally built in that time. Was that kind of in character with us, in the social norm of behavior, in the building. What was it built for? Some colleague of Anka Mrak Taritaš spoke of it, which all the reasons, but let's say, should be mentioned in the context of this debate that even at that time local committees, or even cities or what they were called, the municipalities, as it was already, were building morgues, so sports courts, homes, without permits, whether it was working actions or in other ways, and then, later, at that stage and municipalities had to legalise those facilities, because it was not according to the provisions of the Law and was allowed to invest in non-owned facilities, the audit warned. So what has been normal for many years in the Republic of Croatia, and this is building without permission, is this law has finally tried to put an end to it in this period and to have this process over once. What is mentioned in the same discussion, and in every law, it promotes it, and it concerns the future, and that is the role of municipal directors in illegal construction. I think it's the exaggeration again, the communal monks have neither the necessary knowledge nor the skills, and they're little and they can't do that, I'm telling the municipalities in particular, to make this situation on the ground so they can report people, and even have the ability to report neighbors, and I think that should be removed from it and that other methods that exist today, which, therefore, are the developed technological level, make it possible. So, what should be pointed out is that in 2017, the amendments to the Law extended the deadline for submitting applications until the sixth month of last year, the end of the sixth month, and I personally think that there will be more opportunities for some kind of action in the future, I am not sure that, I would like to see this situation end, but I think there will be an exception, because counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash also said, it is the worst thing to do is to tear down the housing in which people live, in which there are individual furniture. I'm not talking about those who were building consciously by the sea, so they were benefiting from it, but those people who, behold, to solve their existence, built an object, and even, well, they didn't have the money to end it through this legalization process. Anyway, let me conclude, we're going to support this legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125139	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next fellow Bulj, no colleagues, therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, loses the right to debate. After him, he's a colleague of Maras, same case. And we'll end up with a colleague of the Lonchars, here's a colleague of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125140	Thank you, Vice President. The short two things would look back, which is to beg the Ministry here if it is possible to extend this law for a year from two things. The first is that the situation in the so far legalisation of objects by 21.6.2011 was a series of factors in which there were no family opportunities, or on the current division, to exercise its right to a legalisation solution. There was a family in common who had now come to division and wanted, specifically, a father and son and could not apply because he had previously been a father to bear, and because of his property condition he was not in a position to do so. However, new circumstances are now in which an individual wants to submit a new solution, but the law limits it. So please, here we are, if possible, making it possible for many families, especially young people, where we are all looking together to stay in our areas, to enable them to do so. And the other thing is, it's important, and it's important that the local administration units, in their spatial plan, put... in the building land of all these buildings and it is important that it does not disrupt anything in the space, in this case it does not disrupt. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is only possible and better conditions to create life, which is that the Annex allows an individual if he had a house before, but he had no roof, so that he can put a roof and that roof in space doesn't change anything. Here, you'd like to respect that and make it possible for people to do so. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125141	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Zeljko Uhlir, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125142	Thank you very much. I thank all who participated in this debate, reminded us of the moments when the Law was passed and when the Law Agency was established that did this huge job and helped local administration also carry out its part of the task. I would also just briefly refer to a part of the discussion that is indirect and related to this Law, and it is talked about base stations. So that example that was set here today, he's not exactly like that in his nature. It is Rados near Sinj, a solution to the removal was reached, a fine of 70.000,00 kn was charged and a administrative dispute was initiated. So, it doesn't seem like anybody's doing their job, that the construction inspection isn't doing its job, so the management is under way. As far as the rest of the matter is concerned, there are other laws and I would not comment on that further. It is also noted in the law that it relates to the conduct of part 15 January 2019, but since today it has come to the turn of debate in this high home, this proposed amendment of the HNS Club is of a technical nature and is moving that period of action since the date of entry into force of this law, that is to say, the Agency will return the items and, therefore, the amendment is accepted. Thank you very much, everyone who participated.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125143	Thank you, too. This is also the conclusion of the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 536 and we'll vote on the law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125144	Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 536. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HNS representative's club of liberal Democrats. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the club's amendment and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on that final draft of the law. I find that most of the votes, 109 for, 13 abstentions and 3 votes against the law on amendments to the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125145	We continue with the following, next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Mark Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 417. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education, Mrs Branka Ramljak. Here you go, Mrs. Ramljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and representatives of the final proposal in question of this law, it is proposed to adopt a new Mark Act with the aim of improving the system of acquisition of this type of intellectual property right and improving the protection of the rights of the holder of the trade mark in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. To this end, the Final Proposal of the Mark Act proposes the regulation of understandable and clear rules and effective procedures for the protection of trade marks to ensure consistency of conduct and compliance with the EU legal framework and the international legal framework in the field of trade protection. Also complementarity, co-existence of the national trade mark protection system with EU and international trade mark protection systems Madrid system. In addition, with regard to the protection of the right of the holder of the stamp, the aim of the final draft law is to provide a normative solution that will enable effective protection against the growing appearance of counterfeiting, thus ensuring better protection of consumers from products and services of questionable quality and safety where protected stamps are used unauthorized. The need to adopt this law is, in particular, based on the fact that a new Directive 2015/2436 of the European Parliament and of the Council of December 2015 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to stamps has been adopted at EU level. And this Directive modernises, complements and advances the provisions of the previously applicable Directive of 2008. The significant innovations adopted by this Directive and, consequently, the proposed new Mark Act highlight the adaptation of the legal framework for the protection of trade marks in the EU to new technological opportunities to display the stamp following which the obligation so far to protect the mark must be lifted graphically. Therefore, the stamp will be able to be shown in any way that allows competent authorities and the public to determine the exact and clear subject of trademark protection, allowing for further development of non-conventional stamps such as sound, mobile and holographic stamps. In addition, an appropriate legal framework for the protection of traditional terms for wines, traditional specialties guaranteed, geographical indications and designations of origin shall be established from unauthorized registration with a stamp, by introducing appropriate so-called ‘signature’. the absolute reasons for refusing to register a trade mark containing such expressions and the detailed rules relating to the registration and protection of common and guaranteed trade marks. The subject-matter of the final proposal of the Mark Act with respect to compliance with the obligation to comply with the rules of the Republic of Croatia with the Mark Protection Directive at national level also improves the clearer determination of the conditions relating to registration, extension of the validity of the trade mark and of the facilities, the availability of trade marks rights in order to remove certain concerns that arise in the application of existing legal provisions. In addition to the new law, it will facilitate the use of the brand protection system and its compliance with the provisions of its users. In the first row, economies and entrepreneurs who will indirectly have favourable effects on the improvement of the business environment in the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the final proposal of the Mark Act, no additional competences of the State Intellectual Property Institute or other State bodies shall be introduced in the procedures of registration or protection of the trade mark, nor shall additional financial or other obligations be imposed. The Croatian Parliament considered and accepted the bill at a session in October last year. When considering the proposal for a law in the first reading in this respected home, no comments or suggestions on the content of the provisions of the law have been raised. The only pointed remarks and proposals came from the Legislative Committee, which concerned nomotechnical improvements in the text of the law. Therefore, the final proposal for a law differs only as far as the proposal for a law is concerned, which includes nomotechnical remarks and proposals from the Legislative Committee, as well as further minor non-technical amendments and harmonisation of procedural provisions with the provisions of other regulations, following the indication of the competent authorities on the draft final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125147	Thank the secretary of state for the opening statement. If the committee reporter wishes to take the floor, colleague Jelkovac and colleague Bedekovic, if not, I am opening the debate. First call from my colleague Miro Bulj. There's no friend of yours. In accordance with Article 233, a representative shall lose his right to speak on this item of the agenda. Sljj. is a colleague of Tomislav Sokol on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the final proposal of the Mark Act. And that's one law that, as far as I understand more or less, there's a consensus in the Parliament which certainly isn't good, it's not bad, it's good that it's not bad, it's certainly good that there are other situations like that. So stamp, eng. the trademark as an intellectual property right shall be protected by signs identifying products or services in order to distinguish between products or services of certain undertakings on the market. Legal protection by means of a brand mark which companies distinguish from their products or services on the market is extremely important for the economy since, in addition to this basic function of the brand which enables the consumer to identify products or services that meet its needs or expectations, that is, the source of such a product or service mark can also serve as a guarantee of quality, or as a means of competition between undertakings. So the stamp is extremely important both for the economy and for the entrepreneurs, but also for consumers because, in fact, through the stamp and its kind of expanded meaning, they actually know and are aware of what they are buying, what they are using, and that is why it is extremely important that these rules be clear so that there are no confusions in this regard. The protection and appropriate commercial use of stamps can contribute to the competitiveness of companies, i.e. to increase its market share and serve as a symbol of the reputability of the company’s reputation, i.e. its products and services on the market. The importance of trademark protection for the economy shows the results of a study by the European Patent Office and the EU Intellectual Property Office. So this 2016 study shows that in the EU, the segment of the economy that intensively uses trademark protection contributes to the total national gross product on average by 35.9%. So these are these companies that are intensively benefiting from the brand for these purposes that we cited. While at national level in Croatia this percentage is more than the European average, which may not be so common in some other sectors, means a segment that intensively uses brand protection contributes to the total national gross production of the Republic of Croatia by 36.5%. In addition to that segment of the economy which uses intensive brand protection, the share of 21.2% of total EU employment, or 20.7% at national level in the Republic of Croatia, has a share of 21.2%. So it's a law that has a strong impact on a very significant part of the economy. As already mentioned, the EU trade mark protection system includes 2 levels. It is therefore one unitary protection with the EU trade mark of a unique character to be applied in all Member States when it is approved and protected through national trade marks valid on the territory of a Member State under its national law. In the Republic of Croatia, therefore, the system of national protection of stamps governed by the Mark Act, which was passed since 2003 and in the meantime had as much as 6 amendments and additions, which also shows according to the Croatian Parliament's nomotechnical rules that it is necessary to access the new law as the Government has done and as we have seen in the first reading. So this is about a law that regulates the national aspects of the international trade mark registration system based on the so-called so-called ". The Madrid system under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organisation and of course the national aspects of trademark protection. The European Commission's analysis highlighted the problems facing businesses in the practice of applying the current EU legal framework and the existing national legal framework in the field of trademark protection following their incomplete harmonisation. This applies, in particular, to procedural rules relating to the registration and maintenance of the trade mark, the inequality or lack of rules relating to the registration and protection of common and guaranteed trade marks, as well as the lack of an adequate legal framework for the protection of traditional terms for wines, traditional specialties guaranteed, and the geographical indication of origin and designation of origin from the unauthorised registration of the mark, which is one of the most important things related to this law, which I will refer to in the end. The existing legal framework also does not provide adequate legal protection for rightholders and trade marks or for counterfeit goods located in transit through EU territory and for preparations related to the use or packaging of products by unauthorised use of the trade mark. In addition to that technological development and the placement of products and services of companies on the global market, it requires adequate development of the availability of IT tools and the harmonisation of the legal framework for the protection of stamps with new technological opportunities to display stamps, new means of delivery of evidence that enables businesses to register faster and more effectively with the protection of trade marks in national, regional and international brand protection systems. In other words, it is necessary to adapt itself, the rules on the branding of new circumstances, meaning different ways of showing it that no longer must be the classic, graphic as it has been so far, and certainly it is necessary to make it as easy as possible for entrepreneurs to be as burdened as possible by the already regulated European legal system as possible. For those reasons, Directive 2015/2436 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to stamps has been adopted at EU level. The adoption of the Directive has implemented an appropriate reform of the EU trade mark system in terms of its modernisation and improved mutual coherence between unitarity and the national system. It means European legislation with a common European mark and this national system that regulates the registration of stamps at national level. Before its adoption it was found to be important... the limited part-cycle of harmonisation achieved by Directive 2008/95 and the extension of the harmonisation to other spectrum of material rights on stamps protected by registration under Regulation (EC) No 207/2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to promote and create a successful internal market and to facilitate the acquisition and protection of EU trade marks in favour of the growth of European companies' competitiveness, in particular SMEs. So this is what is of paramount importance, meaning that stamps have great importance for companies in the market competition for their visibility, which is of course important, when they compete with other companies and companies from other parts of the world, of course, that this process of protection of intellectual property is as simple as it is because of pre-regulation, which the EU sometimes tends to be, are not put in a difficult position with regard to competitors from the US, China, etc., and in particular, I say some countries that do not protect intellectual property, as strictly as the EU does. Furthermore, in order to facilitate the acquisition and application of trade marks registration across the Union, it was necessary to align not only the provisions of material law but also the procedural rules. These are precisely the ones concerning self-registration in order to make it as simple as possible and to represent a smaller administrative burden for entrepreneurs. All final draft legislation aims to improve the system of registration of rights and trade marks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the regulation of accessible and clear rules and effective procedures, which will ensure consistency of conduct and consistent with the EU's proper frameworks in this area. In addition to the protection of the trade mark, as already stated, the aim is to provide for those normative solutions, which will enable effective protection from the counterfeiter and rightholder and the brand in which they are protected except for entrepreneurs themselves and consumers, who, by the basis of the stamp, actually decide between which company they will enter into a contract with, from which they will buy some goods, etc. So that recognizability, given by the mark, is of great importance. In relation to the existing Mark Act, the final bill, several important effects are achieved, so the first thing that is important is that the current obligation to remove the sign that is being protected as a mark must be shown graphically, that is what I mentioned, that is, to coordinate now simply with modern technology and modern ways of showing signs that simply no longer have to be, to meet those criteria that were prescribed before, and which actually come from a strict graphic display that no longer in that sense would say... The proposed review will be able to show the stamp in any way that allows competent authorities and the public to determine the correct and clear subject matter of protection by stamping. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the important content is, so it's important that the stamp can be shown in a way that the competent authorities, consumers, can determine whether it's working correctly, means to establish an accurate and clear object of protection, and it's not that important to form itself and it doesn't need to be slaved rigidly in this sense. So, Art. 6 of this final draft law, it is prescribed that the mark may consist of any particular word, including personal names or drawings, letters, figures, colors, product forms or packaging of products or sounds, provided that such characters are suitable for the following. The differentiation of the products or services of one undertaking from the products or services of other undertakings means that consumers could primarily distinguish the products of one entrepreneur from the products of another entrepreneur and display in the register in such a way as to enable the competent authorities and the public to determine the exact and clear subject of the protection provided by the stamp holder. It is therefore important to establish the content of this protection in any way appropriate. Furthermore, it would also point out the second aspect, the second most important aspect of this final draft law, which is to establish an appropriate legal framework for the protection of traditional terms for wines, traditional specialties guaranteed, geographical indications and designations of origin from unauthorized registration by introducing appropriate absolute reasons by refusing to register the mark. That's the way it is. 9th regulation that trade marks which are excluded from registration under EU legislation or international agreements will not be registered, ensuring the protection of traditional terms for wine. Marks excluded from registration in accordance with EU legislation or international agreements ensuring protection of traditional specialties guaranteed. For these reasons, the State intellectual property office is kept under official duty. So this job is important in the context of the Croatian economy. So we know that the protection of traditional products and, in general, the food industry is of strategic importance and recognised ultimately in the Republic of Croatia as such and as a strategy of smart specialisation. So the production of early traditional specialties is then one where Croatia can have a cumulative advantage over businesses and producers of other EU Member States and this is the area we really need to protect both in every way and in this sense have an adequate legal framework and therefore this change that the law adopts is extremely important. ... Food and drink has a significant share in the Croatian economy and reputations as the most powerful producer activity according to the incomes achieved and the number of employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the share of total revenues is lower than in other industrial activities, compared with other EU Member States, the share of the food processing industry in the total amount of goods is among the highest. So this once again illustrates this importance to this particular segment of the Croatian industry and the Croatian economy and therefore needs a legal framework that will adequately protect intellectual property in that segment. It's something that makes this law of exceptional importance and I believe our producers, our OPGs and everyone else who actually participates in this production process will feel it. And in the end, we would certainly praise the simplification of the more gradual rules, we know that the EU, prone to sometimes, may be re-regulating certain things, especially when we compare ourselves with the US, I still remember those stories and the reports on the regulation of the longest length, the maximum length of cucumbers, which was a lot of comments and snooze etc. And that is why every regulation that the EU makes, which simplifies procedures, reduces the administrative burden and burden of the legal framework on entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized, is something that needs to be welcomed. And in that sense, I think that this law, which implements adequate European regulations, achieves that goal and for all of these reasons, the HDZ Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125149	Thank you. This concludes the debates on behalf of the Club of Representatives, we have applications for two individual debates, is the first colleague Vesna Bedeković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My respects to Ms. Secretary of State. Ramljak, director of the State Institute for Intellectual Property and certainly her associate. So here, as fellow Sokol, so nicely, systematically explained and explained this Law, I will not add much, but here I will repeat some, here, points of this Law which I think need to be further emphasized, in order, among other things, to highlight, therefore, the good structure of this Law, therefore, and all that will be achieved by law or practice. Here, as it is said, therefore, the basic subject of this Act is the mark, such as, therefore, the exclusive right recognised on a sign that serves to distinguish the product or services of one of the other persons, and, of course, the mark protects itself, both the name, the logo, any album, the label or any other different characteristics of the product or services, and the mark itself, as regulated in the Law, is obtained by registration on the basis of the examination carried out by the relevant competent authority, in this case it is in the Republic of the State Institute for Intellectual Property and what, here, is a good, once again, that the basic condition which a mark must be satisfied in order to become at all a mark is that it is different and that it is not similar to any other earlier trade mark, and that is the basic condition that the mark as such can be insisted and thus ensure the owner of the exclusive right to place in the trade of the product or service that the product concerned, in fact, in fact, the means, the means that the means of the means of the protection of the consumer, that the means of the means of the consumer and the means of the means of the product. And I also find it important to point out that it is precisely by protecting the very creation or design of a sign or logo or some label that can represent an authorial work, that it is protected by copyright, which is therefore ultimately protected by the self-interest of the author and is in this sense branded as the right of intellectual property, shields and signs which mark products or services for their differentiation, and then differentiation of individual companies and economic operators on the market. It is already said that in the Republic of Croatia this issue was first regulated in 2003, therefore, when the first Mark Act was passed which, during the time, up to, today, had some 5 amendments and, well, because of the scope of the new amendments, we are going to go to the new Law, and not to another one in a series of amendments, thus making it easier to adopt this Act, in fact, to use the trademark protection system for its users, and as I said, firstly, to the owners and in that sense, it is important, therefore, to repeat once again the basic objectives of this Law, which is primarily to improve the system's registration and protection of the rights of trade marks, first of all to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and then to ensure the complementarity of this system, therefore, our national protection of trades with EU-level systems, and of course, in this law and this respect of some regulations in the EU, first of all with the 2015. Of course, what is important is to point out once again that this Law establishes an appropriate legal framework and legal protection, which is, as well as a colleague who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club in particular, which is the legal framework of protection, above all, the traditional terms of our wines for some of our guaranteed traditional specialities and for the designation of geographical origin or designation of origin, therefore, of course, that is important, what is important is to be pointed out precisely when it comes to our entrepreneurs, our owners of family agricultural holdings in our territory or in the territory of the Republic, both in national frameworks and through the whole territory of the EU, precisely because the rightholders and the stamps are given appropriate legal protection in relation to counterfeit goods that can be found in transit through the EU territory, and of course all these will be further improved in the system of registration and protection of rights on the mark, the system will be made more accessible and what I think is particularly important, in this way that the legal framework will ensure that the legal and that the protection of the EU will be established in accordance with the law and that the legal framework in order and that the security of the EU. And, of course, as a consequence, we have the assurance of the complementarity of the national protection system, the protection of trade marks in the EU and international transport. What may still be important to highlight here, and here, to underline, that the law does not introduce any new procedures, nor new obligations for our businesses, but rather, makes it easier for them to apply the cereals protection system, therefore, in business and, of course, to say, that the law does not introduce any new fees, nor any new fees, nor changes that would require the adjustment of business and related additional costs for our businesses and, of course, that positive effects on the business of economic operators are expected in that sense, as well as on competition due to the right to equalise the conditions for and maintain and protect the rights from the stamp is whether, of course, a positive impact on the greater legal certainty and competitiveness of our businesses both on the domestic market and, of course, we all need to be aware that this is stronger and competitive, and of course, the competitiveness of course, on the growth and on the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125151	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first one's a colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125152	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bedeković, since you have spent your entire professional life in the system of science and education, you have been through all aspects of this education from secondary school to higher education and since you were a dean, I would like to ask you what you think is sufficient attention in the education system on this issue exclusively from the point of view of the economic advantages that this law brings. Is the process of recognising copyright from stamp patents is actually a complex process, whether our students are getting enough knowledge about it and should, should we do some additional steps in this direction to bring this process closer to people because many innovators have these problems, I have noticed, have ideas, have all, but do not know how to materialize to express myself so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125153	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125154	Well, dear fellow thank you for this question, of course, that this question is relevant and how especially for our students, especially those who study on those study programmes that are related to entrepreneurship for so far, their future professional orientation for employment in economic operators, and even more on self-employment and of course information on this issue depends on which study programmes they study. So, if they are in the area of economy through individual colleges are well informed about this, but in some study programmes of these contents there is not enough and of course there is not enough and I agree with you that it is important and important for our young people, therefore, in time to inform about everything in the labour market, and in particular about ways in which they can protect their copyright and their patents, and I believe that Croatia is a country of valuable, hardworking, young, talented people who need to be supported in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125155	Thank you. The replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125156	Thank you very much, colleague Bedeković this topic is of great importance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, what is particularly interesting is our position in the EU or the position of small and medium-sized enterprises whether this common market can in some way benefit them in going out and on the world market. So on this side, the question of registration is how to register your product, how to mark it where it is produced, and now I'm interested in your opinion that you think that certain things that are geographically important to Croatia or specific, and on the other hand, it's probably more interesting for some of our producers in high-tech industries to be registered under European auspices or community of countries, so there is also a way to find space in one and the other. What's interesting about companies? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125157	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125158	I'm not sure I've understood your question to the end specifically because you've explained it extensively and inexplicably, but I hope to guess, therefore, to answer what you wanted to ask. In any case, for our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, it was for them to target the domestic market nationalally, whether targeted on a foreign market, it was necessary to create legal assumptions that the simpler, easier, faster, more efficient and the more effective way to protect their products and protect Croatian originality, both on the domestic market and on the EU market, and of course on the international market outside EU territory. Was that what you wanted to ask me?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125159	Thank you. And the last [[We've got it all figured out.]] Why would it be weird, but good. [[I mean, it's weird, but we get along.]] The last replica of fellow Falcon, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125160	Thank you very much, so colleague Bedeković you mentioned the question of competitiveness in the European market and I think it is of paramount importance that is the key to the long-term development of the Croatian economy. Here I would just point out that in 2013 Croatia exported 72.6 billion kuna total exports, and in 2017 it was 105 billion kuna. It means 65% of that amount goes to the EU, so I think these figures show how important the European market is to us, and it shows that those entrepreneurs who will not be competitive on the European market on the EU market who will look only at the Croatian market with its simple limitations, which is a small, small number of users, a lower wage power, etc. It just won't be able to survive. Well, I'm glad you brought it up, and as far as education matters are concerned, I'm sorry that I'm not sufficiently trained in intellectual property law schools, that there are mandatory courses in a graduate study that touch a lot less people, so I hope that it will change in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125161	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125162	Thank you very much for noticing this, so I will repeat what I have and pointed out that we need greater legal certainty and, among other things, we are going towards it and through this law because greater legal certainty strengthens the competitiveness of our companies on the market, and of course the competitiveness implies then both economic growth and employment and everything that goes with it, and as regards intellectual property and intellectual property rights and regulation of this problem in the system of science, which is extremely important because we know that the science of engines and the driver of economic development of each country, as well as Croatia. It is a complex problem that, I agree with you, should be devoted to much, much more attention and space, but also concrete actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125163	Thank you. That's what we concluded the debate on the final draft of the stamp law, second reading, P.Z. No. 417. About the apology, the apology, the apology, the apology, we have another individual debate, colleague Maras. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When you run a session obviously fast things go, so you put it into gear, but it's time to say a few things from a position, not just technically, what we've heard so far, and what's very important is that these things are defined, intellectual property, signature on a product, on a brand, that's something I'd say and the foundation of a modern economy or the right to use what you've patented or designed, and that way stealing such rights is something that's inadmissible. What is particularly interesting to me is to discuss a little bit and tell our people where this Croatia is related to the signatures of Original Croatian or Croatian quality. So they have certain things that, I would say, are recognizable or that Croatia is recognizable, where we try to make this originality known and to be additional plus the quality of our exports and our products and on this side, of course we come quite often and in conflict with some other countries that also own certain things, and that will probably be in the future, but Croatia, as far as I know, has protected it, for example, its desires, olive oil, certain varieties of wine and a whole series of things that we are probably well known for. The debate on whether or not to develop the originality or the country where a product comes from and whether it contributes to the quality of sales of this product and visibility in the world is very interesting because I can say that I personally participated in European Council meetings where the debate was held on how it will be marked on the single European market of products produced in the EU. One part of the countries strongly opposed Made in the EU, meaning that it simply continued to be used, for example each country in particular, because they had dominant certain industries that were of great quality, in these industries it was recognizable and identified with the countries from which it came. For example, fashion from Italy or wine from France, and these were countries that forced to remain able to register products or declarations of products where they were produced individually for each country, while some other countries that had a high-tech industry and which included products from several countries, such as Germany, advocated something else. This tells you that still in the EU, countries are looking at their own interests, i.e. the interests of their economy. I also think that you should look at the Republic of Croatia and thus try to find possibly some space to preserve that originality because I think Croatia has something to be proud of. As regards the increase in exports and the protection of our rights, it is good that we have entered the EU market, i.e. we have become a member of the EU guaranteeing our producers and greater security and greater availability of the market and more sales, and this is shown year by year. Unfortunately, growth and all that should be followed, support for the economy is not at the level at which we would probably all like to be, given that we are constantly at the beginning of economic growth rates, regardless of what the growth is, but when you compare yourself with some countries like Bulgaria, Romania, then you see that some of us who have been behind us are very much, in fact, much ahead of us now, and we are already being overcome slowly, and that's what we should take special care of in the future. Of course, I absolutely agree that a regulated market, including intellectual property, is a system that regulates intellectual property, a prerequisite for a successful market and economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125165	Thank you, too. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125166	Thank you very much, colleague Maras. I agree with the really large part of your debate, but you should put some things in context. The fact is that some of the other eastern countries of the former Socialist bloc, Central and Eastern Europe, entered the EU some 9 years before Croatia, and some 6 years before Croatia and had, in this sense, all those years before us, meant to use European funds that contributed greatly to economic growth, while, on the other hand, the Republic of Croatia had to be in debt during that period to build a key national infrastructure on interest, 6.7% because of the other election, and that is the difference that was then seen in the length of the recession, etc. So I think we should simply mention it this way and point out once again why the EU is important and which are all benefits from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125167	Replication response, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125168	Thank you very much. I'd be happy if that was an exact finding. So it's not the only reason, because when you look at it, countries came in 2007, 6 years, one cycle, but it's not their structure of growth from EU funds, so it can't even be the only key to economic recovery, so it won't be in Croatia either. So we have no growth rates now generated from the inflows of money from the EU, but we have growth rates generated from personal consumption, that is, one part of the deleveraging that lasted 7-8 years, and now the time has come again, so you can see it at prices, for example, someone.../incomprehensible/... a market that grows from day to day, again comes up with a balloon, which is likely to blow up again in 5-6 years. So these are one cycle, and unfortunately what I'm saying, is a comparison with these countries that I said, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia are not in any way related to EU funds, but simply restructure, or by changing certain reforms they have made that Croatia unfortunately does not work. [[Intruder: Mr. Maras' time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125169	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125170	Final proposal of the Mark Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 417, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. It puts the final draft of the Mark Act to the vote, please let's vote. I find that a brand law has been passed unanimously with 120 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125171	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the law on protection against light pollution, second reading, P.Z. No. 407; the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 407. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172 in relation to Art. 190 Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? The secretary of state, Mr. Mile Horvat, is with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125172	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, the distinguished parliamentary MPs, the honourable parliamentary representatives. The proposal for a law on protection against light pollution is this final text, the final proposal, the second reading. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 32 The Environmental Protection Act is prescribed for light pollution as a change in the level of natural light in night conditions caused by the introduction of light produced by human action. The problem of light pollution is present in global proportions, and so are we in the Republic of Croatia. The issue of legal regulation of light pollution in our environment has been resolved in various ways, so in certain provinces in Italy, this has been resolved in Slovenia through a legislative framework, while in the rest of Europe regulations, harmonised standards, standards, recommendations on the implementation of external and public lighting. With these amendments to the law we have proposed, therefore, the law was passed in 2011. We are here to correct and modify certain legal institutes that have simply imposed practice. The aim of the law is to protect against light pollution caused by the emissions of light into the environment from artificial sources of light exposed to humans, plant and animal life in the air and in the water, it is important to note, natural goods, as well as night sky using more energy-efficient lighting. The emissions of light to the environment to which the provisions of the law do not apply are defined and that is already defined. 3, due to its specificity, but the arrangements of these emissions to other regulations, as well as to the occasional function of.../incomprehensible/... lighting bodies such as. lighting of production facilities and energy facilities, removing the consequences of natural disasters and other extraordinary events and circumstances, security lighting, military, defence or protective activities in areas for defence, protection, rescue, assistance from natural and other disasters. In addition, this law does not apply to signals in air, road, rail, maritime transport and inland water transport in accordance with specific regulations. Definitions are also given, i.e. the meaning of the concepts governing this area as well as the bonds of application of measures to protect against light pollution, and these are units of local self-government, the city of Zagreb, legal and physical persons as an operator of lighting, project designers of lighting projects, investors, supervisory engineers and lighting contractors. This obligation has been settled. Six. Mandatory measures are defined to protect against light pollution in art. 8. The requirements and procedures of the lighting operator responsible for the management of external lighting are defined and are required to ensure that external lighting is extinguished during the day with the required exceptions, such as for example. poor weather conditions or needs of object protection. In addition, prohibitions relating to the use of light beams, of any kind or form or direction towards the sky or to the natural water body are defined. The lighting of the hatches, so windows and doors protected or living space by outside lighting, which is important to note. The prohibitions also apply to the installation and installation of lamps beyond the prescribed provisions. It is defined that in order to preserve ecosystems and biodiversities in protected areas, lamps of coordinated temperature, colors of light are placed below 2200K. The law regulates planning, construction, maintenance and reconstruction of external lighting. Also, in order to optimise and better plan, units of local self-government or the city of Zagreb are defined to build a lighting plan that plans to build the same area for its administrative area. The lighting plan is the basis for building action plans and external lighting projects. The action plan plans to build a new lighting of harmonised and harmonising existing public lighting owned by units of local self-government and the city of Zagreb, i.e. operators of external lighting with the provisions of this law. It is an expert basis for the construction and reconstruction of external lighting projects in local self-government units. Administrative oversight of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by the Ministry. The inspection of the implementation of this law is also defined, and it is responsible for carrying out inspections for the field of environmental protection, the electricity sector and market inspection. In addition, powers shall be introduced to act on the communal line which is authorised to order the lighting operator to shut down lighting and further use unless it complies with the provisions of this law in the section defining the prohibitions of use, e.g. 11. The transitional and final provisions set out the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts which are required to be adopted for the full application of the provisions of this law, so the inspection could take place, it is important to adopt a Regulation laying down mandatory means and conditions for the management of lighting, a Regulation laying down a way to measure the illuminability of the environment and a Regulation defining the content, format and method of delivery of the lighting plan and of the action plan. Also, a transitional period has been defined to bring the existing public lighting into line with the provisions of this law, which is 12 years from the adoption of sublegal acts. Thus, this law provides for the protection of human health, plant and animal life, as well as the rational use of natural resources and energy. To implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the budget, he was on an e-consultation with the interested public from 11 June to 10 July 2018, and here I would point out that the draft of this law worked exclusively by an expert group which, apart from the relevant ministries, were representatives of the Croatian Institute for Standards, HGK, Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, Croatian Association of Employers, Croatian Chamber of Health Workers, Croatian astronomical Union and representatives of the Association for the Protection of Night Sky. Between the first and second readings, we accepted all suggestions sent to the ministry, we changed Article 2, an expression was added to the speleological which further defines natural underground objects in accordance with the Nature Protection Act, in Article 5 a correction was made to the concept of eco-acceptable lamps. In the part relating to maximum-coordinated temperature, the colour which is now 3000 K and the added limit related to the mercury itself is prohibited, namely the use of lamps that have any element of life to themselves. In Article 12, the new paragraph is added, which provides that the lighting plan defines the areas in which the provisions of this Act, other than the item on prohibited lighting, do not apply to lighting bodies or lamps and Article 20 has been supplemented by the competence of the communal director. The Committee for the Protection of Environment and Nature in the Croatian Parliament on the same proposal and these amendments and additions to the law did not have any objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125173	Thank you, Mr. Sagar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125174	Thank you, Vice President. It's more a question than a replica. Dear Secretary of State, I may have missed that, when we talk about a plan of lighting that is then the basis for an action plan and later on for designing, because the project of building lighting must be in line with the lighting plan and the two ministers will define the regulation. Is it known at this point who will be able to make these lighting plans? Is it going to be authorized or are they going to be engineers working so far and how much costs they're going to require for local self-government units, extra costs are the meaning of existing solutions so far, do you have that information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125175	Answer, Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125176	I'd like to thank you, Honorable Representative Sagar. So, the lighting plan as a document that needs to be consistent with spatial-planning documentation is designed by the concept of this law to create units of local self-government with their human resources because simply by our seeing things, this lighting plan is not a complex document that they could not operate. So he's not so complex that his work would have to be given to an outside body or an authorised company. Otherwise, the regulation will be passed by a minister who will prescribe the minimum content of this lighting plan within a year. So once the contents are defined by the regulations, then the local self-government from that content will be able to do its own autonomous lighting plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125177	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, we're going to the club debate first, Mr. Mato Čičak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125178	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Since the adoption of the Law on protection against light pollution, more than 6 years have passed, many amendments and additions have taken place in that period on works in the area of construction, spatial planning and energy. There have also been changes in other important acts for this global problem. Accordingly, today the final proposal for this law is being discussed, which is very important for the plant and animal world and will ultimately contribute to improving human health. Today, problems are often said to be global but this one is indeed global and only a few countries are successfully solving it. The lack of a directive that precisely determines protection against light pollution only through the adoption of a new law is of great importance that it will further help Croatia to be one of the leading EU countries that has regulations on environmental protection against light pollution. Subject law lays down the protection against light pollution that includes mandatory protection measures, means of establishing permitted values, lighting as well as their restriction and prohibition. It also covers the very conditions of environmental lighting as well as other issues to reduce light pollution. The aim of the bill is to protect against light pollution caused by the emissions of light into the environment from artificial light sources which are primarily exposed to humans and then to the plant and animal world both in the air and in the water. It aims to prevent excessive light emissions from being produced, to reduce existing environmental lighting to permitted values. The law will prohibit any kind of use of a beam of light directed towards the sky as well as the natural water body. Eco-acceptable lamps to be placed in such a way that they do not shine into the horizon or above it will be focused on roads. It doesn't make sense that there's a public lighting that lights up where it's supposed to and where it's not supposed to be. Environmental protection will be conducted during the night and day-to-night in natural underground facilities. The goal is to reduce electricity consumption. As far as deadlines are concerned, it is proposed that existing public lighting infrastructure be coordinated over the next 10 years. The units of local self-government will be obliged to draw up a plan of lighting and an action plan for the construction and reconstruction of external lighting within one year from the entry into force of the Regulation to be adopted by the Minister. The same Regulation will provide for a measurement and method of monitoring environmental lighting. It is important to note that the justification of this Law lies in the savings to be achieved by applying standards and in protecting the environment from light pollution. The adoption of the Law itself will not increase the resources necessary for the implementation of the safeguard measures as there will be sufficient resources already provided under the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. I will repeat how the Environmental Protection Act defines light pollution as a change in the level and natural light in the night hours caused by the introduction of light produced by human action. We therefore adopt this Law to contribute to long-term protection and conservation of the environment. I will also mention that administrative supervision of the application of the Law to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, and the inspection of this Act will carry out inspections which are responsible for the field of environmental protection in the area of control of compliance with the prescribed obligations of the units of local self-government. In the case of surveillance, in particular the emphasis will be placed on the enforcement of the obligations and the implementation of the protection measures against light pollution, and on the monitoring of the state of environmental lighting prescribed by this Act, in order to ensure that all environmental protection measures are implemented in accordance with their capabilities. In addition, the supervision of the communal director responsible for monitoring the enforcement of obligations and the implementation of the measures prescribed by this Act shall be introduced and the same measures shall not be in the jurisdiction of the inspection. The powers of the communal director, as well as their manner and procedure of supervision, are prescribed by this Act, as well as the Law on the Community Economy. We propose that the communal director of the power to adopt a solution setting out measures and deadlines for the removal of identified irregularities, in order to speed up the procedure, and hence the implementation of this Act. Light pollution is a side effect in the development of society. We need to increase our light and protect the environment from this pollution, regardless of what many do not notice, this is a major problem, global, and it is necessary to adapt the possibilities by changing the law, both local self-government and the City of Zagreb, and all those who carry out the lighting activity with one goal, and this is a long-term protection of our environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125179	Thank you, too. Let's move on, Mr. Tomislav Sauch, in front of the HNS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, light pollution is a major problem of the modern era, as a colleague said earlier. We are also aware that the scene of the starry sky has become increasingly rare, that it has been reserved almost exclusively for parts of the Republic of Croatia that are either very little or, for example, for the coastal islands where there is no such kind of light pollution as it has in large urban areas in Zagreb,... Let's say from the most beautiful time, from the purest air, stars almost don't see it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But not only is the lack of starry sky a problem, but the fact that light pollution, like any other pollution, has an adverse effect on human and animal health and the overall environment. Excessive and unnecessary lighting is also environmentally unacceptable for reasons of excessive use of energy and costs arising from this for local self-government units, as well as for various other legal and physical persons. How in this... One Directive, the EU Directive, is good at passing one of these laws, which will certainly, despite some minor failures, improve the situation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The aim of this Law is to protect against light pollution caused by emissions of light to the environment from artificial sources of light exposed to humans, plant and animal life in air and water, natural goods, and night in the sky using energy-efficient lighting. This Law, therefore, was the definition of the Law, and this Law also regulates exceptions. the emissions of light to which the provisions of this Act are not applied because of their specificity, as well as the fact that these emissions are defined by other regulations. Perhaps there are too many exceptions to achieve the full purpose of passing this Law. So, for example. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3. century 2. Exceptionally, the lighting of immovable cultural goods, which can lead to a large amount of light emissions at a specific site, where such cultural goods are many. They're for example. The centers of large cities, too, so most of the cities on the Adriatic, on the coast, have old cores that are filled with protected cultural objects that are lit up, so in some way, I think it might be a big problem if they are not subject to the provisions of this Law. Although we are aware that this is now a second reading, that it should perhaps, not through the talks, with the Proposer and before, but here, it is better to point out now than not to point out at all. It is also stated in point 6 of this Article that the lighting of seaports and lukewart waters without any further determination, so, ports, in this case, may be ports of nautical tourism, for them by this definition would not be subject to the provisions of this Act, and we agree that for commercial ports where there must be loading and unloading of certain loads, sensitive, frozen products at any time of day and night, there is a completely justified need for light, meaning, for light emissions, therefore, by lighting. We think it would be by abandoning the i.e. By extracting the ports of nautical tourism from the application of this Act, there could have been greater light pollution, and that is precisely in those positions that are in some way and most vulnerable here we are talking about islands and parts of the coast, which are by the very nature of things, although not all port of nautical tourism, but some of them are really at the sites which may be the last oasis not touched by this specific type of pollution, I don't know if anyone has ever been by one of our marinas, for example on the island of Yellow, although I believe there will certainly not allow the management of that marina itself to be allowed, I don't know, to put on some of the latest reflects of Croatia, but, let's say, such fewer ports, that nautical tourism would actually be subject to even more stricter surveillance than other considerations, as I have said, that there are some of the last untamed oasises of Croatia which are unpolated by this type of pollution. In fact, any pollution has an adverse effect on human and animal health, including light pollution. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 5th of this law is defined by certain concepts, so it is stated that it is environmentally acceptable with ethics, a light source with a maximum color temperature of 3000 K. Now, if someone has recently done some renovation or at least changed the light bulb in any part of the apartment, he has seen that, since they can no longer buy these conventional light bulbs with the Volfram line, they are buying LEDs or halogen light bulbs. They have these color markings, so Kelvin, so 3000 K is an extremely white, cold light with a large proportion of blue colour in the spectrum, and it's proven in scientific research, medical research that this very blue part of the spectrum has a particularly unfavourable effect on human health, especially that it interferes with the meaning of regular and normal sleep cycles. So, when we look at it, it's forbidden here, so it's thought to be the upper limit of temperature that shouldn't be, i.e. above which you shouldn't go. We come to the conclusion that, in fact, in public lighting, which is the most common source of this pollution, it can be used, therefore, by lighting bodies that emit such a cold color of light that can lead to health problems. If that were the case, the article also shows. 11th century 4th wheel. 10 of this law and art. The 11th century is the 5th wheel. 10 of this law where just for protected areas to preserve ecosystems and biodiversity predicts that lighting bodies that have that color temperature of over 2200 K should not be used. Therefore, it is clearly recognized that correlation between heat, i.e. cold, as you would already call light and effects on the environment and human and animal health. After all, it's also the reason why this law was passed, so I think here we could think about it a little bit, maybe there's no need to go with the amendments, but in any case, you should be careful that this color is as natural as possible. Here's when you're going to go, either tomorrow or the other day at home, when you're going down the Mesnica Street you can look at how the example of poorly designed public lighting, where standard light bulbs are replaced by some terrible LED light bulbs that, I think, you don't want to look directly at, will remain, 20 dots sealed in memory because that light except that it's unnatural, I think and gives that unnatural color, it's very weak on the other side, it gives you a bad light and gives you an unnatural feeling when a man walks or walks on those streets. But I'm talking about some of the streets in here around this high house, as if they've listened to the most bitter resistors of the ban, i.e. Protecting the environment from light pollution, and there is no public lighting in them at all, so citizens have to walk with lights in their hand, but not to turn to local topics that have been quite popular lately in this high home, I would go back to this law. So, I would also like to say that this law defines bonds to apply measures to protect against light pollution. These are units of local self-government and the city of Zagreb, legal and physical persons as a lighting operator. It also defines mandatory measures to protect against light pollution, so that it should be set up and lighting bodies, under which corners, thus prohibiting it from going above the horizon, therefore. It is also prescribed that the local self-government unit, or the city of Zagreb, must develop a lighting plan in the reconstruction of some lighting bodies and that, in any case, they must have one lighting plan brought by the representative body of the local self-government unit, which should be presented, means in the process of consulting the interested public on the web pages of local self-government and the city of Zagreb, which we consider to be good because we believe that citizens must have insights in one accessible and transparent way and how public lighting will be set up and how local self-government units as an operator will deal with this major environmental pollution problem by light pollution. In addition, powers have been introduced for the conduct of municipal directors who will be authorised by the lighting operator, order the lighting to be shut down if it fails to comply with the provisions of this law. There I am, i.e. We hope that the application of this law will lead to some, I don't know, period being no longer incredible and impossible to see from a certain urban environment some stars and not only reserved for uninhabited areas of Croatia and our beautiful islands. We think it's not just a question of some, I don't know how to say it, not aesthetics or beauty, but a question of human health and necessity, and with some minor objections from the HNS Club, it feels like it's a good law and that will certainly contribute to reducing light pollution and will cause the HNS club to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125181	Thank you, too. With us are the students and students of the First Varazdin High School. Let's give them a round of applause. We're glad you're with us. Let's move on with the debates. [[Applause]] - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark Taritash in front of the GLAS and HSU counseling club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125182	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, we have a second reading of the Law on Protection against Light Contaminants. Climate change is facts. Climate change in terms of what we have opportunities to see, the plant and animal world adapts. It will adapt, and man will have to adapt. One of the things is in terms of migration, when we discuss it, what is said, is that the next wave of migration will be a wave of migration due to climate change because if someone takes two or three days more of drinking water, it will be one of the reasons why they will leave the place where they live. But in the context of climate change, it's always good to go back to the topic, and the topic is light pollution. Likewise, when you look at images of the earth and look at images of individual continents, by light pollution or by how bright it is, you can see exactly how what part of the earth is working, what is happening and what is there. I have to remember before one 10, 15 years ago, there's that now and 15 years ago, when highways were made, then one of the things on our highways was so-called. Green bridges. We were then in a lot of ignorance about green bridges that were designed to cross animals, so they were large, large animals, small animals and then it was just the same for the first time, I must admit, I met with the topic of light pollution. When you're driving any highway, you see exactly the parts that are specially lit, they're always, they're lit up, they're lit up, except for the following service facilities, they're lighted up there and when you have to turn around and when you have to go out, they're lit up because of the driver, because of us that you can manage in the night, but that's certainly the consequence of both the plant and the animal world, and that's one of the lights that's relatively fast to change, and that's when we get to these cities. Our cities have different ways of treating this problem. There are cities that really care about the lighting we use, there are cities that go a little slower. So, always somehow, I have to admit, I refer to the City of Zagreb and to the story that was and which you could see, the City of Zagreb has hired a special company that has dealt with and is still dealing with the problem of lighting up certain streets in the City of Zagreb, the problem of changing light bulbs, and when you see what it is, you stay a little surprised and a little confused, even more, this stable coalition that is both in the City of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb, HDZ and Mr Milan Bandić was on the subject of maintaining public lighting in the City of Zagreb, is something that on several occasions in the City Assembly did not pass to public lighting in the City of Zagreb, and then there was a rescue solution to the Law on municipal activity which he said that he no longer decides on a representative council, but this mayor himself and it is a clear that there was a public solution in the city of Zagreb that he had to take care of the city, which he had a lot of the city of Zagreb, which he wanted to be a lot of the city of Zagreb, which he had a lot, which he would be a lot of the city, which he would be a lot of money, which he would be a lot of money, which he would be a lot. And now that you've read it, it seems to you 12 years, 12 years in terms of elections, that's three terms of office, that's three terms of office of a mayor or three terms of a representative body, that's the 12 years in which you're going to have to adapt. The question is, what's going to happen in those 12 years? And why am I saying it all together? This is one Law when you read it and when you enter it a little bit, it seems okay to you, therefore, light pollution, we are all aware of the problem it is. It is okay with some provisions and compliance with EU rules, it is okay to really care about cities because when you take other regulations and laws, it is jurisdiction, therefore, it is a communal problem that is the jurisdiction of cities, it is okay that the Republic of Croatia has a good relationship with the problem that is related to environmental protection and we will have a decent regulation and then what is always happening to us will happen to us, the difference between that decent regulation and reality. So we have 12 years to adjust, which is, in terms of planning and all the good. And then one question, how many EU countries have passed such a law so far? I asked that question at the first reading on the board, and then it turned out to be just a few. I think that we are Croatia, that is the first of those countries to pass this law through Parliament. Why are we in a hurry? Why do we now decide to go with this law so quickly? There's always some reason that can be justified. Let's say that if we are on the market or preparing to have in terms of the economy, a few companies that are going to produce some things that are related to the possibility of such lighting, then that makes sense. To pass the law and thus encourage the development of the domestic economy, encourage the development of entrepreneurship, and we'll be first, I think I'm reading well. So a few of the EU countries have had them in the debate but let's be fair to the end, perhaps one of the first. We'll have that law. We'll be able to boast, you know, when you put the lines on, here's the line we made and brought. If there's really a tendency and an opportunity to develop an economy, that our economy can develop, that maybe some kind of production can open up, all right, we've done it, so we'll be the first, so maybe it's a good export product, but if we only do it for one case, if we don't give God for some unknown reason or for some very interesting interests, then we wonder why. We have a series of rules that worked, which we tap, which we don't bring, and that's exactly what we're going to do first. We, like the club of Glass and HSU, will be restrained. We'll be held back on this, you're restrained at a time when you have very little reason to be too much for, you don't have the strongest possible argument to be against but you have the feeling that there's still something that wouldn't be acceptable to you to the end. To be fair to the end, in terms of regulations and in terms of what it says, all right, the relationship to space, the relationship to environmental protection, we give 12 years to adapt, so everything is fine, but the question is essentially, why are we in a hurry to get what we're going to get, if it wasn't smarter, maybe wait a little while longer and see all the things and I don't have a problem with getting some regulation and passing some law, so on the way to establish or determine that something wasn't right so you're doing changes and supplementing, but there's a lot of these unknowns and a lot of these stories. When you look at a little bit of Earth from the air and you look at Croatia, you can see exactly by those dots, exactly no one has to tell you which is the biggest city in Croatia, how cities stand, which are parts of Croatia that are actually devastated where there are no more people and where people really went and the question is when they will come back, so these are the pictures that should be used in the sense of even the idea, projects and strategies of some demographic recovery of Croatia but this is another topic and there is no need for me to use this speaker on this subject, I clearly said the position of our club, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125183	Thank you, too. Now we'll move on to individual debates, there's only one, Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I support the initiative to pass this law because I consider light pollution to be one of the types of pollution that is not sufficiently spoken of in public and not sufficiently understood what its consequences are. Light pollution of course affects, for example, the possibility of dealing with certain scientific activities such as astronomy that I am strongly concerned that astronomical society participated in the adoption of this law but light pollution has direct consequences for the plant and animal world. Light pollution leads to changes in the behaviour of various species, changes in the growth of plants, but also light pollution, especially in cities, leads to changes in the biorhythm of many people. And if we're talking about those who may not have the opportunity to, for example, because they live in some cheaper objects or so, they don't have the ability to completely isolate the entry of light into their housing units, it leads to sleep disturbances and sleep disorder we know is the cause of many serious diseases. Therefore, regardless of the potential of anyone's interests, I must welcome the adoption of this law and support it on that side. However, I believe that this law has several shortcomings, which is why my colleague Tomic and I have submitted a series of amendments that we want to help fix this law, so I will take the opportunity to explain some of them and start in order. Article 3(1) of this Law provides for a range of situations to be exempted from the application of the Law on the Protection of Light Contaminants. Some of these situations are completely logical. For example, traffic signalling. Well, of course, that traffic signalling that is directly aimed at protecting human life, human health must be excluded from this law. So is security lighting. We can debate defence facilities, in some countries it is a matter of light pollution coming from defence facilities very large subject, but given the fact that the number of defence facilities in the Republic of Croatia has been reduced regardless of the purposes of Minister Krstičević to spread the army throughout the Republic of Croatia, I think this is also something that makes sense to be an exception. However, what is not logical to be an exemption from this law is a complete exception to the application of the law to production plants. Dear colleagues and colleagues, production plants are not only a source of smoke pollution, pollution by harmful emissions, but often production plants are the largest source of light pollution. Anyone who's been lucky or unhappy to live near some manufacturing plant that works, and for example in Pula, we have a situation with a cement factory, an oil plant, etc. could testify to how many production plants produce light pollution. And for that reason, I believe that the provision that makes production plants absolutely exempt from the application of this law. Be careful in all situations production plants while working plus 30 minutes sooner or later are excluded from the application of this law and can produce light pollution as much as they want. They are not even provided for in the provision that existing light bulbs must be replaced with more environmentally sustainable because the law explicitly states the provisions of this law do not apply to production plants. If we know that the adjustment period is 12 years, then I think there is really no need for one of these broad exceptions, and therefore we have proposed an amendment to delete it in paragraph 1. Of course, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia were willing to intervene in a way that suggests some compromise solution would be more than happy to accept it. But we find it totally unacceptable from the aspect of environmental protection to exclude the application of this law from everyone, to all production facilities. We have a similar situation with the onion issue. OK, of course, that the ports that carry the burden cap cannot have such a restriction because it would simply mean that at certain ports in the Republic of Croatia at a certain time of night, of course we can't work. However, I do not think that this should be for all ports as referred to in Article 3 paragraph 2 of this Law. On the one hand, because of the sentiment like Pula, I think that shipyards should be an exception to the application of this law, but I believe that we will agree that sports ports and nautical ports really shouldn't be an exception. I really think that the ports of nautical tourism can illuminate their facilities without respecting the criteria set out in this law. Given that nautical tourism is a relatively profitable activity and that the deadline for adjustment is 12 years, I think it should build up the limit proposed in our amendment. The next thing I'm going to point out as a problem is a question of landscaped, landscaped lighting. So this law allows a relatively wide application of landscape protection and even be careful, there is a particular problem, and even in objects that are considered protected parts of nature. Regardless of certain elements of protection that the applicant has installed and which praises are still valuable, there is still a concern that landscape protection, pardoned landscape lighting may be used as such because there is a possibility and this often happens to light up the treetops, to illuminate waterfalls, etc., and even in areas considered protected areas of nature, and then to question the extent to which these protected areas are truly protected and how much that eco-system is preserved in which an area is protected. One concrete proposal that we would give you, and I will end with that when I talk about certain provisions, is the issue of advertising boards. We are witnessing that more and more advertisements are being placed and these advertisements are, in my opinion, completely unnecessarily lighting from the bottom, which then leads to the rejection and dispersion of the light that goes up, which interferes with the flying animals, but also all those who have ever taken a telescope and tried to observe our sky. Indeed, I really don't think there's any need for the advertisement boards to let the lighting on the bottom. I'll repeat the adjustment deadline once again is 12 years. To all those who have placed the ads, they will be more or less amortised in that time, which means that this will only apply to those new ones that will be placed and I really don't see that it would specifically limit anyone if such a restriction were introduced now into the law. I will conclude, it is absolutely necessary to support the adoption of this law because it is a kind of pollution that many forget. But in the hope that this law that is in its intensities will be good, which in my opinion is restrictive enough in the sense that it protects our environment by its provisions, which on the other hand has a long enough period of adjustment so that everyone to whom it applies will have enough time so that no one can be allowed. Look, we've often had situations where some very important things should be applied in half a year, a year or so. Everyone here will have more than enough time to adapt to that law. And that is why I am, so I will say freely incomprehensiblely that these have happened in my court of failures in this bill and I hope that there will be a hearing of at least part of the amendments that my colleague Tomic and I have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125185	Thank you, too. Yes, we have one replica, Mr. Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I owe you and my colleague Tomic a little apology because when I was preparing for this point, I didn't realize that these were your amendments, but now I'm glad that I was preparing and I was watching those amendments and I can tell you that I agree with you and that when I vote on the amendments, if the Proposer doesn't accept those amendments, I won't put them in the proposal for sure that I will vote for those amendments. As I was saying and in my debate on behalf of the club I particularly agree when it comes to ports of nautical tourism and I accept your full argument that commercial ports are one thing and as far as the port of nautical tourism is concerned, there should still be fully respected provisions of this law. So once again, one small apology from fellow Tomic and you and the commendation that you have clearly engaged in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125187	Answer? No, well, thank you. And now the closing statement will be given to State Secretary Mr. Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125188	I thank the vice president of HS. I thank the distinguished colleagues and respected MPs and MPs who welcomed the adoption of this Law. Clearly, they also expressed certain critical opinions regarding certain provisions, which we respect. The amendments of the esteemed representative of the Grbin will in any case be announced and we will propose to the Government certain solutions or whether or not we will accept them, that we do not now polarise about individual amendments, but there are, we could also talk about the amendments or whether they are based on the provisions that we have laid down, and you have, pointed out them to the Amendments. Cultural goods and ports, i.e. nautical tourism, are absolutely regulated lighting and cultural goods and ports are regulated by this Act, and in particular this lighting regime is foreseen by Article. The 11th of this law. The eco-acceptable lamp, the esteemed representative of Sacha, said, if I correctly understood, therefore, the law has prescribed or the profession has said so, we have in this Law highly consulted the profession and the profession has said that an environmentally acceptable lamp is the one that is up to 3000 Kelvins, therefore, that color and that lighting is defined by the profession as environmentally acceptable. We also have cases, in Brač we have cases of other cases where people have reported to us, they have asked for intervention of our inspections because simply, their committee is threatened or their dream is threatened in a way that the lamps that local self-government has set up in the context of a public debate are inadequately set up, so they light up in their rooms, so they light up in their houses, they don't have a peaceful dream. We followed everything that was happening, we know and what it means from the medical point of view, the inspection came out, etc., so, not to spread the subject, so this Law and prescribed that in public lighting from now on, so that whoever goes into reconstruction of public lighting must apply these standards where the most acceptable lamp is up to 3,000 Kelvins. In national parks, nature parks, for certain reasons that people have pointed out for nature protection, we put that censorship down, so technology down to those lamps up to 2200 kelvins, and that's what the profession said, so we respected the opinion and attitude of the profession. Why do we apply this now, why are we going now to change this law? The basic law was passed in 2011. It has not been applied since then, nor have the Rules of Procedures been adopted, which should have established certain criteria and criteria in the development of these laws, and based on this inspection had very difficult work on the ground because they had no basis for certain measures. So now, after the adoption of this Law, if it is adopted, as we have suggested, we have left a 12-month deadline for the adoption of three basic regulations that require that legal vacuum to be arranged, so to create a certain assumption in the inspection services on which they can act on the ground. We have defined the application of this Act 12 + one year. So, as of today, from the first day of application, it takes 12 years for the left deadline to comply with these technical standards. Those with a public lighting recently reconstructed, the profession said that these light bulbs they installed have a 12-year duration. We respected it, so we said that the moment you came into the new reconstruction phase, you would have to apply the standards of this law. So we're not forcing you to do it now, but when you're technologically aware or when you need it, you want a reconstruction, you're going to have to do a reconstruction by these standards, not by standards like before where you used lamps from 4 to 5 to 6000 Kelvins, which the profession said were harmful, that they were too bright, too blue, etc. So that's the goal of amending these laws. Otherwise, the profession said that the economic viability of these bulbs was in the seventh year and that another five years lasted, therefore, 12 years which is a technological age and we respected that fact when we said that this Law would apply, the deadline of adjustment is 12 years + one year, counting from today, so in 12 months when the Ministry had pledged to bring all the relevant acts. If I left something out, here, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125189	Thank you, too. You have three replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Pejo Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for taking this amendment into consideration. I would just like to point out, yes, it is true that the ports of nautical tourism and other ports are located in the regime of art. 3.St. 2. where they must apply those prohibitions referred to in Article 2. 11th century 5th, but it's not the only ban. You, for example, in Art. 11. you have other prohibitions, such as the ban on light burning during the day, which will remain for the ports of nautical tourism, so that ban, then ban those 500 nanometer lights, etc. My suggestion is to consider the ports of nautical tourism and sports ports being exempted from any privileged regime at all. For example, perhaps a compromise proposal would be if production plants were then put into the same regime as ports. So that, in my opinion, would be a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125191	Thank you very much. There's another replica of Mr. Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Without the intention of offending anyone, I know some. One politician whose waist was one of the, so the profession said, was one of the favorite paroles. When he wanted to push through something that was basically a political decision, which I'm not saying is here. However, it does not make sense to me that if I am the Law but in one of the later articles defines that it is better and healthier, so the temperature of light is 2200 kelvins, then I do not understand why the preceding article tells me about human use. Not for human use, but for urban environments, it's quite fine, 3,000 Kelvins. I mean yourself, try it in practice, the next time you go to some shopping mall where you sell construction equipment or body lighting, ask someone there to turn on a 3,000-chelvine light bulb, it's definitely not the most natural possible spectrum, and I don't think it would be bad for you to once again that waist asks if it's possible to still go with a little warmer light than 3000-kelvins, here, just that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125193	Thank you very much. The third line has a Mrs. Doe. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125194	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm just explaining a little bit that to myself maybe, and there's going to be an opportunity for you to answer. The law shall enter into force on 1 April 2019. If it's 12 months, you've given a deadline for making the regulations, it's, I guess, from April 1, 2019, 12 months. This means that on 1 April 2020 and then we are 12 years old, which means, by 1 April 2032, public lighting or lighting must be adapted to the provisions of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125195	Thank you, thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125196	We will now move on to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Protection against Light pollution, a second reading. P.Z. number 407. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representatives of Peđa Grbin and Damir Tomic. I ask the President of the Proposer to declare the amendments submitted. State Secretary to the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125197	The amendment to Article 3 shall not be accepted, economic operators shall define in their production facilities through construction and other projects a technological process that requires the necessary amount of lighting for normal and secure implementation of all processes, meeting the necessary safety and safety standards at work. Furthermore, as the lighting of such installations requires significant costs through project solutions, optimal solutions are provided both from the aspect of environmental protection and from the aspect of energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125198	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125199	... Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Enlightenment of more or less each facility causes certain often significant costs, however, there is a problem here that you have provided that industrial plants are not subject to the provisions of this law. Therefore, Article 3(1) of the Treaty provides that industrial plants, regardless of our declared views, will be able to do whatever they want to do to protect against light pollution. Yes, by project, but when we talk about other regulations there are no norms that prevent, for example, excessive direction of light into the sky etc. I believe that this despite all the bonds of law enforcement provided for a 12-year adjustment, you went too far to handle industrial facilities. Industry is usually the largest pollutant, as when we talk about pollution of harmful smoke emissions, etc., as when we talk about sound pollution often and when we talk about light pollution. I believe that it is absolutely unnecessary for all production plants to allow them to break or that they do not have to apply absolutely every provision of this law. We have suggested this, unfortunately, you did not accept why we must ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125200	2nd Amendment of Representatives Peja Grbin and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125201	I thank you, Mr. Grbin's 2nd amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on protection against light pollution, cultural goods are not fully exempt from the application of this law, since, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3(2), point 1 of this Article, cultural goods are subject to the prohibitions set out in Article 11(5) which define the prohibitions of lighting and thus to this type of facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125202	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125203	As I told you during the debate, especially when I was talking about what would be the subject of the third amendment, that, indeed, Article 3(2) left the application of certain prohibitions, but not all. One of the bans that cultural goods will not apply is, for example, that ban that speaks of objects not being illuminated during the day. So here we're going to be uncritical, and it's going to be similar, and when we talk about the next item, it's going to be possible for the object in question to be lit up for 24 hours, completely unnecessary. On the one hand, unnecessarily because we have light pollution, on the other hand unnecessarily because in the case of cultural goods, it is often about objects that are particularly intensely illuminated, and there is also an excessive consumption of electricity. Therefore, I think that the provision of Article 11(5) where it is written, which, as well as under what conditions, especially when we talk about frontal lighting should be done, is quite sufficient and that the question of cultural goods lighting should not have been put in Article 3(2) where it is referred to in point 1. Since you haven't accepted the amendment, I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125204	Amendment No. 3. Honored representatives of Peda Grbin and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125205	Amendment No. 3. is not accepted. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Protection against Lightpollution of the Seaport, it is not entirely excluded from the application of this Act, since, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3(2), point 1 of this Article, the prohibitions set out in Article 11(5) which define the prohibitions of lighting and thus apply to this type of objects regardless of the purpose. According to the Law on maritime good and seaports, sports ports and ports of nautical tourism are special purposes. The port of special purpose is also a seaport so that as such it is not subject to the exemption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125206	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This paragraph, i.e. Article 3(2), point 6 is disputed for two reasons. First, because you allow completely unnecessary sports ports and ports of nautical tourism to be excluded from part of the obligations arising from this law. Of course, certain exemptions would, for example, be made for the port of crossing which is intended for industry, exports, etc., as the port of Rijeka needed such an exemption. But other questions are being asked, why then for ports, I will repeat such as Rijeka Port, such as Luka Ploče, Gagenica, etc., you did not predict the same treatment as you predicted for industrial plants. And I'll ask you the next question. All our shipyards in spatial plans are defined as seaport special purposes of the shipyard. If, at the same time, an industrial plant and port of special purpose are to apply to the shipyard, the seaport shall apply the provision of Article 3(1), point (1) or Article 3(2), point (6). Because you predicted the same, same area of two specific rules, two different rules. I believe this item should have been edited differently. It was certainly necessary to exclude the ports of nautical tourism and sports ports and to accept that amendment that we had on Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union would not result in this misunderstanding and this doubt in the application of the law to take place in the event of a shipyard, since you rejected both amendments. Of course we're asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125208	Amendment No. 4th representative of Peđa Grbin and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125209	Amendment 4 is not accepted. In accordance with the definition of landscape lighting is an external lighting used to highlight the characteristics of greenery on the public surface, which does not include waterfalls because they are not part of greenery and public surfaces, this is defined in point 12. In Article 11(5), point 9 is replaced by the following: Article 11(5), points 1, 7, 8 and 10 define the prohibitions and conditions of lighting which are also applied to the landscape lighting as well as the lighting of natural water bodies and protected areas in order to preserve eco-systems and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125210	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125211	To explain to the citizens what this is all about, landscape lighting is something that we can most often see when we see enlightened treetops. We simply believe that there is no excessive reason for such a way of lighting to be allowed in this extent in which the law provides. So it's about lighting up the treetops. It's about lighting up parts of nature that are the habitats of a large number of night animals. And the question is, how much does this law have to do with so many exceptions? Of course we can't accept your argument, which is why we're asking for a vote on this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125212	Amendment No. 5th Honored representative of Grbin and Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125213	Amendment No. 5 is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. While point 3 of the same paragraph refers to housing that are part of immovable cultural goods such as the old city cores declared cultural goods in accordance with the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. In view of the fact that the property of cultural goods is determined by the Ministry of Culture on the basis of professional evaluation, it was necessary to define the restriction and prohibition of a specific sentence under the Law on Protection against Lightpollution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125214	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is a matter close to what we talked about under Amendment No. 2. So as in other cases, in the case of cultural goods, we believe that you have allowed excessive exceptions to the application of this law. We consider that the question set out in point 3 is sufficiently regulated in point 2. We believe that, in this way, other than those exceptions that we have spoken of, too much, the release of lighting into the environment. But also every time we talk about excessive lighting, we need to be aware that we are talking about two aspects of environmental protection because one thing is an excessive amount of light that needs to be prevented and another thing is excessive use of electricity. As in all cases so far and here, we are asking for a vote on this amendment since you do not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125216	Amendment No. The 6th Honored Representative of Grbin and Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125217	Amendment No. Six is not accepted. It is also unnecessary to add landscape lighting because, in accordance with the provisions of the protected area, it must be carried out with lamps of a coordinated color of light below 2200 kelvins and meet all other provisions relating to prohibitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125218	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125219	Thank you. It's just that there's one problem here again, it's also protected parts of nature. So we believe that in this case, indeed, it has gone beyond measure and we do not think there was a need for such an exception. If we could even accept that the extensive exceptions of this Law are allowed in the case of otherwise landscape lighting, when we talk about the last protected parts of nature, then it's questionable what it is. So, to be clear, in the National Park, someone will be able to light trees on this basis. The question is whether it is then the National Park, the question is whether it is then the preservation of habitats, the question is whether in such a protected part of nature can be preserved those conditions that need to be preserved in order for something under the law to have the status of the National Park, and not to mention, I don't know, a special reservation or so on. Of course, as in all cases so far, we are asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125220	The 7th Amendment of the Honorable Representative of Grbin and Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125221	The 7th Amendment is not accepted. Art. 11th century 5th wheel. 1st, 5th, 8th and 9th state the prohibition issued by the proposed amendment. However, for the wide definition of a large number of different types of ad panels, it is necessary to define the emissions of light for ad panels through the Regulation of Art. 9th of this Law, which will elaborate the subject matter in detail. Note how the emissions of light are defined in art. 5th century. 6th century.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125222	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125223	I personally considered this amendment the most banignant of those we have proposed. So this is about something extremely simple. We've got ads, we've got more and more ads lighting up. Most of the time, our citizens have a chance to see them along the highways, along traffic, city roads, etc. This amendment asked for only one thing, not to ban their lighting, but only to order that this lighting cannot come from the bottom. For what? Because in such a situation, which is because of the direction of the beam of light, which due to the physics of the rejection of the beam of light results in a decay of the amount of light that goes away, completely unnecessary, into the environment. So we're holding that at least this could have been the amendment that you're going to accept, the more the existing ad boards aren't going to apply this anyway because I can't imagine that some of the advertising panels that are now set up will be able to last for 12 years. I will repeat once again, this law in its fullness takes effect in 12 years. On the one hand, those who set up new ad panels are on the side of the costs, regardless of whether they light them from below or from above, and for the existing ones they will have to change in 12 years. From the point of view, how environmental protection and impact on nightlife mean birds, mammals, insects, etc. This is quite, quite a serious problem, and it is particularly a serious problem with the aspect of, for example, astronomical observations because these advertising panels that are often located outside the inhabited areas, are those that prevent astronomers from coming out of the cities, and when they come out of the cities, have a view of the completely clean sky. And of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125224	The last amendment of MPs Peja Grbin and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125225	Amendment No. Eight is not accepted. When planning, designing, building and maintaining the reconstruction of external lighting defined under the Law governing construction, the applicable norms in all segments shall be taken into account, as well as the applicable standards in the field of lighting. When drawing up the Regulation referred to in Article 1(1), the following shall apply: 9th of this Law, the topic under consideration will be further elaborated, taking into account specific urban environments, protection of human health, the environment and energy efficiency. In accordance with the procedure for the adoption of the rules, the Regulation is of art. 9th of this Law goes through consultation with the interested public, and all the above-mentioned, innovative comments will be analysed and, if necessary, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125226	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125227	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I will use this last amendment that we have submitted, to thank all those associations and all those citizens who helped us prepare this because neither my colleague Tomic nor I have all the expertise needed to deal with this kind of thing, so for me personally, because I have spent years in astronomy and in a particularly interesting topic. However, this amendment was last tied directly to the First Amendment. When you explained the First Amendment, you said that we would leave everything to design and that, through the design of industrial plants, we should deal with this lighting going more or less in the spirit of this Law, but we won't. Why? Because industrial norms are not yet engaged in lighting as provided for by this Law. With this amendment, we've actually suggested that the industrial standards of gravity go to a rule that you as the Ministry should make. So this amendment, in fact, we gave you as the Ministry more importance, which is why I'm surprised you didn't accept it. But this right now raises the question of why Amendment 1. Because simply, at this point, there are no provisions in our industrial norms that would apply in this way to the protection against light pollution. They're only being introduced into our legal system by this law. And that's why calling for standards is wrong, both in the case of industrial plants and in all other cases. The emphasis should be placed on the Regulation to be adopted. After that, it will only eventually become part of the norm, yet it is not. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment, too, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125228	Thank you. That concludes the statement or the interpretation of the amendment. We'll take a break now because the usual vote, as announced, will be at 12 o'clock, so we'll have a recess by 12 o'clock. The session was interrupted at 11.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125229	Final proposal of the Law on protection against light pollution, second reading, P.Z. No. 407, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representatives of Peđa Grbin and Damir Tomic. We have agreed on the amendments during today's session, and we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So we have eight amendments to the two MPs. We're going to Amendment number one. The government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking that we vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number two is also not accepted, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3. The government doesn't accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4. The government doesn't accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5. The government doesn't accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 6. The government doesn't accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 7. The government doesn't accept it, so please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number eight is also not accepted, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Protection against Light pollution, please vote. It finds that most of the votes 80 for, 47 abstentions, the Law on Protection against Light pollution has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125230	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marine Fisheries, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 397. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have the Secretary of State with us. Maria Vuckovic, please. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, etc., please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125231	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The esteemed lady. Parliamentarians and gentlemen parliamentary representatives. The Maritime Fisheries Act entered into force on 8 July 2017. It was published in NN 62/2017 and was amended by the law on aquaculture in December 2017. In short, I will just say that at national level, this Law sets out the objectives of fisheries policy, the way of management, the protection of renewable biological resources, the way in which the control of body inspections and the way in which the support system is implemented, the regulation of the market, as well as all other important issues for marine fisheries. The necessary legal mechanisms have also been provided for the implementation of the EU's common fisheries policy in the section relating to the establishment of a legal basis for the new operational fisheries and maritime programme, fisheries management plans, as well as annual data collection and management plans. We believe that this Law provides a legal basis for ecologically sustainable and economically and socially justified fisheries that is also in favour of our island and coastal communities. The amendments provided for in this proposal are mostly technical. It is an additional clarification of certain provisions which could have been interpreted twofold. Also, avoiding repeated infringements, allowing the use of recordings of a new unmanned vessel control and control system in fisheries, etc. Also, compared to the first reading, further from the professional organisations, the cooperatives as a transitional form to producer organisations supported by the EU in the common fisheries policy, i.e. Structural funds are provided for by the Ministry of Agriculture to assign instead of the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service to the State Inspectorate as of 1 April 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125232	Mrs. Devereaux. Vuchkovic, you have two replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125233	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear State Secretary with Associates, I am interested in the operational programme that you mentioned in your opening presentation, the operational fisheries programme covering the period from 2014 to 2020, I am interested in the Ministry, how much money we have withdrawn from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. We know that a large amount, about 200, 250 million remains in the Fund itself, and I'm interested in plans, so, about those resources for 2019. In 2020, how long do we plan to get out by the end of the term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125235	Thank you very much. Therefore, the operational programme for maritime and fisheries is worth around EUR 358 million, EUR 348 million, with EUR 252.6 million being financed from the EU. At this point, we have agreed a billion and 240 million kuna, of which 580 million kuna was paid and I am taking the opportunity to say that the previous operational programme that was worth the period from 2007 to 2013, which had to be closed a year earlier on the delivery of the Funds, was not closed. By the end of 2016 we had very short time to verify and close such a programme. That this programme was not accredited, so in 2017 we worked on accreditation and credited it in 2018, the first request for verification was sent in April 2018 and met the M+3 request on 31.12.2018. As far as your question is concerned, how much we expect to use it, I expect we'll use it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125236	Thank you. The second line has Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125237	Dear Secretary, you said how much funds have been agreed from EU funds, can you tell me how much it means in implementation, how much has been implemented so far, what is that amount? We have a lot, 10.5 let's say billions of euros and in other things in agriculture, so we haven't achieved so much, I think it's much more important than it's achieved and how it's implemented. My key question is, how threatened our fish fund is, and do you have the opportunity to protect it because this government does not have the courage to declare an exclusive economic belt, regardless of what the right of the Republic of Croatia under international law and under the '72 UN Convention. Mr. and we have the right and the Council of Europe says to protect our Adriatic because simply our damages are great, no one controls foreign fishing fleets because they are very little controlled and, of course, that an exclusive economic belt would extend the section between us and the protection of our fish fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125238	Thank you, too. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125239	So again, a billion 240 million kunas were agreed, 580 million kunas were spent, so paid to users, certified slightly more than 41 million euros. The fastest growth in consumption compared to the structural funds used by the Republic of Croatia. As for the protected eco-fishing belt and the protected economic belt, who knows which way, exclusively, forgive the economic belt, who knows which way to identify at least the superficial differences between these two regimes in relation to other economic activities, as regards fisheries, there is no difference. By entering the EU, waters other than the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia, they would be subject to EU governance measures and would be the same regardless of the protected ecological and fisheries belt or exclusively the economic belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125240	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to the debate, and first of all by the clubs, Mr. Ante Bačić is first in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125241	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. One more state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Marine Fisheries Act. In the introduction, we heard from the secretary of state that everything is changing. Most of the technical nature, and we know that only this previous Law on aquaculture, that certain provisions of this law have ceased to apply, and that the law itself has allowed the implementation of new EU regulations and are related to fisheries and introduce new controls and infringements and management systems of fishing capacity, common market organisations and other fisheries products. Frameworks for the adoption of an operational programme for fisheries and the objectives set out by the Republic of Croatia for the fisheries policy, plan and management of the fisheries fund, as well as the way data is collected for the protection and renewal of marine biology, all within the framework of the EU's common fisheries policy. It is important that the law enables responsible and sustainable exploitation of living treasures as we see in the bill itself, as well as in the explanation itself, and in an environmentally balanced and economically and socially justified way through measures to protect and preserve and restore resources... a system with control and supervision of EU rules contributing naturally and to the development of coastal and island communities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the final draft law, I repeat, most of the things and changes in the technical nature are to update the list of regulations which are now in force for the 2017 European Parliament and Council Regulations relating to the collection and use of data from the fisheries sector and the harmonisation of the law in view of the future State Inspectorate. In order to avoid the possibility of double interpretation, changes have been made for example. Article 6 which is prescribed by fishing vessels and articles which have shown ambiguous implementation of practices and have led to certain misunderstandings. With this proposal of the law, i.e. This final draft law also requires the development of provisions relating to the regulation of fishing in protected parts of nature, sports and recreational fisheries, as well as the implementation of expert training for economic fishing at sea, which is now being carried out by the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service in the final proposal of the law. professional training for economic fishing at sea remains at the end of the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture itself and the compensation for the same is lifted, there was the most debate between these two readings, the State Secretary also mentioned provisions concerning drones. This proposal also allows defence ministry staff to manage those systems. As regards Article 28 of the final draft law, it is amended and reads that the common regulated markets for fisheries and aquaculture products include professional organisations, marketing standards for certain fishery products, consumer information, competition rules and market research. In that section where the very professional organization is mentioned but what I mentioned in the introduction, i.e. in the replica itself, there is also a strong emphasis on the operational fisheries programme covering the period from 2014 to 2020 and it leaves us definitely more money from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund than some 252m euros in the amount of funds that can be used to meet the objectives of the fisheries policy of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the withdrawal of these funds can definitely be greater and here we have heard the efforts of the State Secretary himself that the ministry will fully, i.e. seek to make full use of all related EU funds. Finally, the HDZ club supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125242	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash's turn in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125243	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are in the second reading Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Marine Fisheries Act. This government really has a custom that I can't say and I can't commend that we're getting bill proposals in two readings, that we have the possibility of discussing, that between the first and second readings, there are other things that can be changed, that some things can be accepted, that some things can be built in, and that's principled for commendation. Unfortunately, the result of all of this is that in the second reading you are relatively, so all we should have said is we exhausted through the first reading and then in the second reading here, all together is a little public, or fellow MPs much less there are active. I have to admit I can't and I can't resist it, it's January is usually a month that's usually a month of depression, and so, with the Assembly session, we started that first day quite energetic and there were raised tones. I must admit that at some point I expected that some colleagues who normally do so would ask for a resolution minister to come and then maybe discuss the shoes or some other things of that minister, but here's a good thing that's been missed and that we're still in the debate and what's the measure, and the measure is this law. I must say, this law is something that we at the GLAS and HSU will support. He's one of those, I call them so-called. technical laws because actually through law enforcement you see things that are bad, things that need to be changed, things that you need to supplement. And you come with one correct change and complement, and through these changes and additions you create a document that is operational to you. And I'm really taking this opportunity, and I don't need to look at any regulation that he's like being carved into stone, so we don't change him. And, of course, those who work under that regulation when they see when there are shortages and some things need to be changed, to change. And if this one, if this law was in both the first and second readings, we wouldn't mind there for the simple reason why it's so-called. the technical law. What is still well mentioned, and what I am about to mention are two topics that we discussed a lot, the first January passed, the agricultural forest advisory service is no longer alive, but the activities have transferred to the ministry. I'd like to know how it works today if the activities have already been done, whether the ministry regulations are ready because you have to define them differently through the regulation, you have to deploy people. And no matter what, whenever you're talking about it, the situation is next that says you won't need new funds, you don't need it directly but it will be indirect. It's the same way we're talking about inspection here. We discussed the Inspectorate. If true, the inspectorate will begin on 1st April 2019. I suppose there are also certain activities in the ministry to see how many inspectors you have, to do, that one, structuredly related to the great inspectorate. Because the point is that it starts with work, the point is that it works. But now, perhaps even in a few sentences, if I just look back at actually sustainable eco systems that are extremely important and extremely important, it's good to talk about them. It is good that this law regulates the possibility of fishing in protected areas. What you need to know when they were even declaring protected areas, so I won't be here right now, I will speak in principle and about 40% of the land in Croatia either in Natura 2000 and 60% of the submarines. We also have national parks that extend on the sea side, and it's good to regulate it. I remember those inscriptions on the paper whether or not fish can be fished in the Kornati or fished. As much as it laughs on Mljet, as much as it laughs, we also have the Lastovo Nature Park, so especially special spaces. And it's good that through the law we have it regulated, that we have through the law defined, it will be good that the inspectors do their job. But we always have to keep in mind, we have one custom that's already kind of alarming and that's that we have regulations that are decent, that are correct and then we come to reality and reality is a little different. The result of this law is when it comes to reality, it should be that really inspection builds its own business and it should be that what we need and energy and everything else we use for this one, one sustainability of this sea world because if we don't worry about it, one day no one will be able to even discuss the Sea Fisheries Act because simply no fish will be. I won't, it's already afternoon, they're all already, a little bit tired, what I really want to do again, we're seeing it as one of the technical regulations through which you're harmonizing with everything that's happened in the meantime, and in that sense we're going to support this amendment and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125244	Thank you, too. Mr. Allen Prelec will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125245	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State with Associates. First of all, we have a law in front of us that I would say more compliance with European norms, and we are all aware of that, I am a member of the Agriculture Committee and where we have discussed all this together and I can say that we will support this law, especially here, this is the first reading and we hope that through the debate and until the second reading, we will include maximum of all those interested parties to discuss this law and to be a fisherman. It's nothing controversial here I say I've contacted myself a lot, and the fishermen, not only of these seas but also of those freshwater ones, and as far as I've heard from them, there's no one to add to this bill, or there's nothing against it, if they'll have to add we'll see between the debates. However, here I would like to perhaps at this point troublesome something else. Namely, the fact that Croatians, regardless of the sealand we have on the island of 1200 and something we have on the beautiful shore, are at the beginning of the consumption of sea fish. I don't know if you know that only Hungary is behind us for the consumption of fish, it's something that should absolutely be problematicd and should be seen in fact which are the reasons. According to the World Food Organisation's recommendation, people should eat fish and 170 grams twice a week, fortunately that they should consume blue fish, which is even cheaper fish, and then maybe it's more accessible to Croats, but here's a little joke in any case, the EU average of 25.5kg of fish per capita per year. According to European indicators, Croatia uses 18.4 kilograms and some of our indicators 8 to 9 kilograms. Now I'm going to do this again, see how much really alarming information that really is. So 25 kilograms is average, and Croats at best spend 18 kilograms. The Portuguese spend 55kg of fish per capita, the Spanish 46, and I say the Hungarians are at the beginning. Here, I'm sorry, I'm usually Zagorac but I really like fish and I prefer fish on me than pork, but here it is. I believe that many Croats too would have fish before me if she were easily available. It's not clear to me that it's simply this sea that we have, along with our valuable fishermen, with everything we've been given to God, that we simply don't use that we're at the beginning of this ladder, the infamous ladder. I believe that with a good strategy for the development of agriculture that will include this fisheries we can climb on that scale and not be in a society with Hungarians who have no sea, they have a good Balaton there is probably a lot of money, so they are in this, in a bad position but I believe that, with a real strategy, Croats will be able to burn on this scale but with the help of the European Funds. Namely, I have here a booklet that we received last time on the board says a programme for regional development in which we see in fact how much money from the European Funds is actually available to Croatia by various projects. Well, here's something stuck in my eyes, an island economy and capital projects programme, 117 million kunas. Well, I believe a lot of that money will come into this part of the fishing promotion. Another good point is that a package of laws aimed at even regional development and a 96 million kuna island law has been passed. So I believe that a part of this money, a large part of this money, is about to go and precisely to those who need it so that our fishing industry, our fishermen, can get new ships, and I know that fishing is also subsidized in various ways and by buying blue diesel, and I believe that this way we will get more Croats to eat fish. Now, why do Croats really eat so little fish, is it something they like more pork or is it not available? Here I am, unfortunately, might say that the fish are not available to us. Unfortunately, the average Croatia may also be the most accessible one, the brand and the plow that comes from a 70 kuna farm and thank God Kromaris who has developed such an industry, that is, the industry and that the Croat, the average Croat, can afford 70 kuna fish, a high-quality fish. But why is it that the average Croat cannot afford another fish, and we know that on the salary and on the fishermen the toothfish costs 150 kuna pounds, so now it may be a deeper topic, which is why the fish in Croatia are expensive, and why something else is more available. Well, that would move me to think a little bit, actually, to see if we can really be on, at least on average, the EU that our people can eat more fish, and it should be more accessible anyway. Well, here's what might be one of the topics that we should discuss, should be part of the strategy for the development of agriculture in Croatia, and I believe that with such a way, that Croatians will be more of a fish, and another thing we all like to boast that we have tourism and tourism really every year goes with bigger and better results, so I don't see a better market than tourists coming to Croatia to offer our Croatian fish, but is that so, unfortunately, it's not. We all go to sea or most go to sea, so we know that then in restaurants or, or in some fast food, we get fish that's from imports. So now they know the word of those who are in the wood industry, that Croatia sells their logs out and then we import furniture from Italy or from some other countries, I would say so with fish, Croatians export quality, good fish to Europe can mostly be and here among others and tuna quality, I know that both Japanese and our respected generals deal with tuna, we export tuna to Japan high-quality, and then we import tuna cans from Indonesia, I buy it in the Consuma can from Indonesia or I don't know from Taiwan or anything like that. Here are some problems that are clear that we should be able to protect all of us, we should actively discuss and think about how to make fishing in our Croatia better and to put as much as possible through tourism as possible and not to export raw fish, and instead of offering it here with a service, it would certainly be a better policy and that there would be results. Here, I'm a little bit off on fishing, but I think it's part of this law, even though it's clearly not word and letter, I know it's consistent with the EU. Europe shouldn't dictate things to us, I think we should be good enough masters to make our own strategy for the development of fisheries, agriculture and everything else. In any case, I hope that at least some of these words of mine will reach out to those real ears and that with the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture and then fishing, this fishing policy will be better in the future. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125246	Thank you, too, Mr. Prelec. Now we have the last individual debate, Mr Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125247	Thank you very much. The Last, Also First Yeah, [[Intruder Radin: First and Last.]] It means when, honourable Vice President of the Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. [[Intruder Radin: First and Last.]] When discussing this law, it is crucial to ask yourself how we rule the Adriatic. As it seems, at least according to what we read in public, we are in a desperate state because the pollution of the sea is growing and thus destroying all that we have in the sea, and according to some analyses, by 2050, it will, for example, be. In the seas there are more plastics than fish, so so there is in our Adriatic Sea. There's a black-humping joke about a new one when a man bought a fish in the fish market so he tells the seller you charged me a bag and you didn't give it to me and the seller said it's already in the fish. Because as far as we can see, in one third of the marine organisms there are plastics and many die because of it, many living things are polluted because of it. We also see the Adriatic as a major problem of concessions that are often given without sound logic. Not so long ago in the time of the Government of Zoran Milanovic and SDP, of course always present HNS, we listened to crazy ideas about the drilling of the Adriatic, and the following obviously even the state of fishing is not much better, this is today the main theme of this law. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that fish fishing is ruled by total chaos, which is characterized by the outing of the fish fund and by the destruction of the entire habitats of fish in which many unprofessional, many dishonest and professional fishermen participate. So we have, like in many other segments of society, a desire for fast profit, a greed which unfortunately the state has very little control over that market, because surveillance is insufficient and the penalties are often too little. This law, if I understand correctly, is intended to increase the penalties for illegal fish fishing but it seems that those law breakingers are still more cost-effective to pay the fines than to give up their jobs. Also, as we could see from the map recently announced by the ministry, it seems that harmful fishing called brake fishing is still allowed in the Adriatic, and that in the entire Adriatic, unfortunately in those areas where it should not be carried out and these are primarily areas along the coast, these are areas in narrow island canals and others. Of course, it has already been mentioned here that our cottages are a problem but that they are far less a problem than Italian cots that come into our Adriatic and deliberately enter the nests like that, like the island of Palagrega, do great damage and no one can do anything to them because Croatia has no way and it seems even willing to stop that phenomenon. Apart from the Italians in the smaller part of illegal fishing, Slovenians and Montenegrins participate in our territorial waters. When we talk about the role of the Italians, it is important to note that they also throw their heavy metal industry into the Adriatic Sea, that NATO planes also came from there, during the Adriatic they threw a lot of junk and all of this contributed to the destruction of the Adriatic flora and fauna. The new problem that has arisen in preserving the fish fund is climate change. It is important to highlight the US's very regrettable decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. And we see that that's why fish warmings move northwards and that through the Suez Canal, tropical fish species have come to the Adriatic that could easily destroy our traditional indigenous species, which is a new problem. In any case, for all of these reasons, it is easy to say that all the seas, not just the Adriatic, are going to run out of fish in the next 30 years. It's not just my claim, it's actually the claim of all those associations that are involved in the study of the sea, for example. The 2015 World Fund for Nature found that 93% of fish species in the Adriatic were overfished, and should essentially work to preserve or reduce fishing. Unfortunately, fish and marine organisms from year to year become increasingly protected species. So, not only the fish, but also the shells, mammals and snails, different organisms, the list is really very long, and in the Adriatic, in fact, 40% of all living organisms have been destroyed in the last 40 years. I've listened to Mr. Praec before me who says that Croats should eat more fish, but the key question is whether there will be any fish. So, whether in the Adriatic or some other seas, there will be fish over a few decades, because if these trends continue, means global warming trends, overfishing, pollution, environmental incidents, violations of the law, etc., there will seem to be no fish for consumption in the future, and only in the desert and the dead, in fact, the sea, the blur. Following all of this, I would like to say that the Living Wall advocates that this issue is not resolved through EU legislation, this law that you have passed has, therefore, been made in Brussels, but that the Republic of Croatia makes its own legislation that would address the issue of fishing in accordance with the highest standards of nature protection, while at the same time protecting it from illegal and excessive fishing, whether it comes from our wicked fishermen or from fishermen from borderline countries. Therefore, the basic message we want to say is that the Republic of Croatia should address this issue independently and sovereignly. We support the idea of the same exclusively economic belt that is originally ours, and this is essentially just one technical addition that all the questions I have raised, unfortunately, will not solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125248	Thank you, too. You have one replica of Mr. Preleco.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125249	The Honorable Chairman, so it's not often that I fully agree with my colleague, Bunjec, I must say, but this time I absolutely sign everything you said and I think we should all be concerned about the state of the fish fund in the Adriatic, first of all because of the extraction, but the first part you spoke of pollution. I would say this way, I don't know if we should be more afraid of pollution on the Italian side or on the Montenegrin side, and we know how many harmful chemicals come from, especially from the Po River on the Italian side, or if we should read from newspapers every year how much garbage we get from the Montenegrin side, here in Dubrovnik and the surrounding area. And I absolutely agree here with you, dear colleague, that we should all work together on a regulation that may be stricter than this European regulation, to protect our Croatian sea, and then also fish in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125250	Thank you. A little bit from Albania, not only from Montenegro, a little from Albania. The answer is yes, Mr. Bunzak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125251	Thank you very much, Reverend Prelec. Here's what we agree on, though, in fish, it may not be a crucial question, but it's important. However, it is important to note that we are also, unfortunately, doing ecological incidents, too, here, we had last year in Raška Bay a major environmental incident, in Istria, we had a sinking ship there at the Apple, I think the same thing last summer or the previous summer. I personally remember the ecological incidents there around the Omis on Krk, that there were black stains on the sea, that people couldn't bathe, and apparently they set blue flags that were all super, perfectly clean. So there is one much, much greater concern, and a team before, because tourism or staying on the Adriatic has become the main economic branch of the Republic of Croatia, which is actually dependent on the budget and the overall economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125252	Thank you, too. Now she will take the final word of Mrs. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Maria Vuckovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125253	Thank you very much. Thank you, Vice President HS. I thank the esteemed MPs and MPs who participated in this debate, and I also thank you for the helpful suggestions. In the final word they are trying only briefly, so answer some more questions about Croatia's agricultural forest advisory service. Her employees all moved to the Ministry of Agriculture. The system works the same way today, we hope it'll do better. The Internal Design Regulation has not been adopted, however, has been fully developed and sent to the competent authorities of the state administration for opinions, so there are no delays. As for all applications, work, everything is taken over, all 129 local offices are working as they have, and we already have our first savings regarding the cost of office materials, for example, etc. The inspector at the Ministry is approximately 450, all inspections by the Ministry of Agriculture will go to the State Inspectorate, except the Fisheries Inspectorate, and they are 33 with special responsibilities in the control system of the European Funds. Although we have said that the changes proposed by this Law are, in particular, technical nature, not entirely, so we have a new possibility of making urgent decisions of the Minister of Agriculture, which is in charge of fishing, in the particular situations you mentioned, and in terms of the urgent restriction of fishing effort where further necessary, the use of certain tools and fishing. I would like to point out the same because it is mentioned here that, although we have 33 inspectors, in the past year we have authorised and educated more than 200 persons of the Ministry of Transport Ministry, Customs Administration, Ministry of Defence and nature keepers who are also mentioned in order to be able to be with us, with our fishing inspection, to carry out the protection of the biological resistor for surveillance and control. The consumption of fish in Croatia is unfortunately too small, the more accurate data is the one you have presented than the one offered by the European Commission or any other international statistical body. This year we funded a campaign of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, together we are in it and it is related to the promotion of Croatian fish, Croatian fish, which is worth eating. This promotion is also funded in the multimillion-dollar amount by the Maritime and Fisheries Operational Programme. We have also introduced a special day into schools and promoted fish consumption and a concrete gift package for our first-class students, and that is where we will strive to expand further, increase, strengthen, continue to work on campaigns, prepare, but it will be important to increase competitiveness through concrete measures aimed at the fisheries sector so that, of course, this fish is affordable for Croatian consumers. Finally, I would also like to say that our fisheries policy in the part relating to control and protection still shows certain results, that we are the first to introduce certain spatial time limits in 2015 and we will wait until 2020 to see the results of the 5-year development, but we hope that they are good because here the European Commission has at least temporarily given up the quota for small blue fish and even takes over this model for other Mediterranean countries. We have also established a special regime in partnership with the Italian Republic in the Apple after a long-term effort. First of all, it was a months-long agreement and now it is a three-year agreement that will be valid until the 9th month of 2021, and we hope that such an agreement will also produce results, infringing fishermen who violate the conditions of fishing. It's not just criminal penalties that are reserved, it's also damages. It is not accurate that gambling can be found throughout the fishing sea, gambling can only be found in certain places. All wagons are equipped today with devices that allow us automatic tracking and alarming as soon as someone is in breach and as soon as someone is in a zone in which they are not allowed to fish. I also want to say that the fishing effort is really still great, but we are doing what we can, so with the new measures and the addition of authorisation to the economic advantage of fishing effort, that is, the number of fishermen in the section relating to coastal seines and small swimmers has dropped by 87%, one step at a time moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125254	Thank you, too. The first line has Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125255	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. I'll tell you about the swimmers' nets. The Mediterranean regulation made it impossible to use a network of swimmers at depths less than 70% of net heights. So the regulation was harmful to Croatian fishermen because they make 89% of their catch through these very networks. Amendment 174 was submitted to that Regulation. Roses of Tomasic. Three euro-parliamentaries voted against him. Do you have any information as to why the IDS Europarliamentary voted against when Istria was known for fighting for fishermen and their rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125256	Maybe it was the wrong button, who knows? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125257	Here's no information, I know how it was voted, and that's all. As for the amendments set out in the European Parliament and adopted by the majority of the votes in the European Parliament, Croatian Fisheries Policy, the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared a complete basis and will continue to work on this now in these trilateral negotiations between the Commission, the Council and Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125258	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125259	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you have, in an additional explanation, referred to this education and in protected parts of nature and continuously to educate everyone else and stated that 33 of the inspectors in charge of fishing remained and you had one argument that I failed to understand until the end and you tied to their obligations related to the EU's tasks. Well, I don't know if you could explain a little more about why these inspectors stayed with you at the Department of Agriculture? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125260	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125261	So for jobs, thank you very much, for fishing inspection tasks under the Maritime and Fisheries Operational Programme, 37m euros are reserved. The fishing inspection within the allocations shall be equipped with both ships and drone systems. And it also educates everyone else in the system that will help her tomorrow. It would be quite complex, complicated and there would be changes and certain parts not in regulation but in other acts and I think that, we are the stand to make it complicated to use European funds. And in the section relating to land and heritage of products, fishing inspection operations will pass to the State Inspectorate, but this 33 inspectors will remain even better involved in the control and surveillance of the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125262	I'm concluding a substantive and constructive debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125263	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Marine Fisheries Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 397, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Marine Fisheries Act, please vote. I find that most votes, 108 for, 13 abstentions and 3 against the law on amendments and additions to the Marine Fisheries Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125264	And now we move on to: - Proposed law on freshwater fishing, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 515; the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the representative of the proposing state secretary, Marija Vučković, want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed ladies of the parliamentary representative and gentlemen of the MPs, the aim of adopting this Law on freshwater fisheries is to create effective legal standards for the performance of sports and economic fishing on land waters and to carry out inspection controls on all participants. For the purpose of the existing law, the standards have been completed, supplemented, clarified and fully addressed certain issues relating to fishing authorisation in the inventory band, flooded areas, waterways, hunting times, etc. In addition to these reasons, the need for change has also emerged since the new Aquaculture Act has entered into force and aquaculture has been separated from the current freshwater fishing law. Although there is no common fisheries policy in freshwater fisheries for all issues at EU level, it has already been left to Member States to regulate this area in the majority in accordance with their jitiological, geomorphological, hydrological, biological, ecological, socio-ecological and other characteristics, however, certain issues are regulated at the level of the common fisheries policy, in particular those relating to the market of freshwater fisheries products for the elimination of the black and grey market and the traceability of products. There was also a need to comply with the regulations in the field of nature protection and the water economy in the section relating to the assessment of acceptability for the ecological network as regards nature protection and management plans to be in line with the water economy plans. This law will also bring certain damages to the Croatian economy, and the Action Plan for the Administrative Discharge of the Economy provides for savings on the basis of the suspension of administrative fees from the existing law of 650,000 kuna. In addition, a kind of decentralisation will be carried out through the takeover of part of the work in the counties and the appointment of authorised persons to the counties for inspection control in fishing waters where economic fisheries are carried out. What is the novelty of this law and one particularly good side, the creation of a complete electronic interactive database in freshwater fishing, which will enable the purchase, e-purchasing of fishing licences, security charge and the automatic schedule of funds between the state budget of the fishing rights administrators and those alliances that have received public authority. This will facilitate the purchase of permits, increase the frequency of the arrival of fishermen as targeted tourists, which we believe will at least benefit local communities in some way. On the other hand, the introduction of electronic registration of the sale of licences and payment of fees to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in this way will be made easier and instantaneous to meet the obligations of the supply of communication data, transparency in financing of all commitments and use of funds, much higher than the current ones, to the current law and to the printed delivery of material. In this way we will better monitor fishing effort and retained catches in sports and economic fisheries. The system of financing of all fishing rights authorities is also changed, becoming more flexible in a way that monitors individual management plans, the specific needs of each authorisation holder. Recognising the importance of permanent and targeted scientific monitoring of the fish fund, land fishing waters are further regulated by the law by human and technical standards for authorised scientific research institutions and introduces categories, special category of fishing for public aquariums open to the public. The power of fishing inspection is further regulated and we believe that the law has that the law is an effective legal basis for freshwater fisheries in an environmentally sustainable and economically and socially justified way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125266	Thank you, too. You have one replica, don't you? No, it's good. It's good. Does the representatives of the clubs want a word? No, I don't. The first is Mr. Domagoj Mikulić in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. You had a replica? You want to do a replica now?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125267	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable State Secretary Vučković, with his associates, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, is here before us the first-reading freshwater law, the law that builds on the existing and certainly modernising version, the old version for which the need to define this large and significant area more clearly. Amendments to the legal standards and conditions were necessary in order to create a more efficient system for sports and economic fishing on land waters, in order to manage fish stocks rationally and in a sustainable manner, by collecting information, in order to control freshwater fisheries with quality control and infringement provisions. Also, the creation of the Aquaculture Act, which was set aside from the freshwater fishing law, created an opportunity for new law offices to notice the issue of fishing authorisation. There was also a need to comply with the regulations on the protection of nature and the environment as well as the water economy, and as we have heard, there is no common fisheries policy in freshwater fisheries at EU level and practically every country is given to organise this area independently in accordance with biological, hydrological, socioeconomic and other opportunities. Therefore, binding legal norms and EU acts relating to market regulation have been introduced and what may be particularly important is the traceability of freshwater fisheries. Given the current situation in fisheries, it has proved necessary to express itself, to create a new legal basis aimed at regulating the entire freshwater fisheries market, this is primarily achieved through the control of catches that should be affected through the reduction of the black fish market and the preservation of our natural resources. Through rational and sustainable management and protection of the fish fund and through ensuring sufficient supply of freshwater fish and traceability. There are several examples of the positive contribution that this law will make, and I would like to stress a clearer regulation of the implementation of sports and economic fishing on land fishing waters. So far, the clarifications have been different interpretations and have led to some difficulties in implementing the laws so far, and are related to hunting, water, flooded areas and... Belt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, it's a good thing we digitize this area through electronic applications related to digital bases. They should replace current paper registers, unscheduled delivery of data on fishing effort and retained catch in economic and sport fishing. The law also introduces electronic fishing permits for security payment and allocation of funds which will definitely facilitate and buy permits, increase therefore and the number of arrivals, notably those of tourists, introduce clearer control of payment of fees and prevent the possibility of financial malversions. Control is a field that needs to be made even more effortful, so it is good that both this law and the more clearly regulate the powers of the fishing inspection, as well as the other authorised persons for supervision. This shall also be possible through the decentralisation of activities related to the performance of economic fisheries and placed in the jurisdiction of the counties, which will be able to appoint, among other things, their authorised persons for inspection of fishing waters and fishing. The fish fund in land fishing waters, today represents a great potential and a very important natural resource, which is why its responsible and sustainable exploitation is necessary, is very important for the permanent and targeted scientific control of the fish fund, with of course greater personnel and material efforts, which this bill also regulates. Thanks to measures to protect the conservation and restoration of the resources of freshwater eco-systems, with one responsible behaviour and a regulated system of duties, we can expect multiple benefits, a greater return to rural development, the presence of scientifically correct fish on the market, and supervision of the overall process through ensuring the traceability of fish. It is important to stress that this bill removes certain administrative burdens, all participants, which achieves significant savings, which are certainly also an incentive for the survival and development of economic and sport fishing. Therefore, a clearer regulation of the performance of sport and economic fisheries, digitisation, more effective supervision, decentralisation, measures to protect and restore the resources of freshwater eco-systems are also an integral part of this legislative proposal, which will, among other things, support this proposal for a law on freshwater fisheries in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125268	Thank you, Mr. Mikulić. Now, in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125269	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored State Secretary with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on freshwater fisheries. As the State Secretary pointed out, it was to be expected that we would get a proposal from this law, for the simple reason, that aqua culture came out of the former law in a special law and was expected not to remain blood-regulated that area in the Law on There, but was expected indeed to make this law. In our first reading, we will support the bill's proposal, but somehow through the debate, we would like to set out and highlight some topics. The first topic is, in principle, a link to all those regulations, i.e., provisions that are defined from the aspect of nature and the environment, as well as from the aspect of the water economy. So as far as water is concerned, as far as water is concerned, we have a really close connection with environmental protection and, indirectly, with nature protection. Although debates were held on several occasions, which is nature in relation to the environment, which are protected parts, both in protected areas of nature, under what conditions and how. Otherwise, the debates that have been conducted at different levels of expertise are always the subject, people have a feeling when something is declared to be protected parts of nature, that there is nothing there. That's not the case, and it should always be used if that's not the case. It's only in those parts is something a little bit more sensitive, something a little different should be defined, but there are possible economic activities, but for the purpose and always account for, which is a priority. And the priority is that it's a protected part of nature. What you have, among other things, pointed out on several occasions and pointed out several times and this is the electronic registration of sales of licenses and payment of fees. And those records, so what this is and this is an opportunity to say, let's see what's the difference between regulations and reality. The regulation made it possible and well to enable it. Now, let's see in reality, which has been done so far, which still needs to be done to make it work. We don't have a single regulation that comes into debate without talking about it in the rips, the removal of administrative barriers, that we're not talking about, that some permits and activities need faster, that it'll be cheaper for our citizens, and absolutely at the declarative level we all support. Now recently the same regulation was passed, which spoke about these e-applications, one of our fellow citizens began to use it and then got the answer that it did not work or function badly. Perhaps in the final word, there will be an opportunity for the State Secretary, as she said in the final word about the agricultural advisory service, to tell us something about the inspection. It may also be an opportunity in the final word to tell us a little about what is happening with these applications, at which stage, when it is expected that something is working out for the simple reason that I am something that I am absolutely sure of, and that is that this methodology that is not from today, which is long ago that we have regulations that are correct where we build all the good practices from the EU level, in which we integrate and the good practices of our actions, you have regulated it properly and then we come to reality and in reality we see that these things don't work. So it would always be as good as otherwise the law has always estimated the resources needed to implement the law, now someone says it should or shouldn't, so it's that pattern that's binding, it's always good that maybe when it comes to the introduction of electronic applications it's a little bit and it explains at which stage they are, whether we have them, whether we don't have them, how long it will take, whether something already works in that sense today, or if we expect something to work or to see what time frame or what time period it will take to go through to make something work. It's not good and it's not going to be good, someone's going to come and read the law, see if, look, we have it, and then when it comes into practice, it's going to come from the unloved to the unloved, and it's going to show that something's not working. Among other things, when you spoke or basic questions that are regulated by law, you said that one reason and interpretation of certain concepts, and that is where you specifically cited the induction belt and the flooded area. And now we come to the provision of Article 3 of the law where the term is, so every law is common when we agree first is the purpose of the law and the second is what, Article 2 is in line with certain EU directives and in Article 3 is the concepts. And now I went carefully to read and read how you defined the concept of the Industrial Area and went to read how you defined the concept of the flood area. For what reason? For the reason that we really have too often cases that are being passed and even in the parliamentary debate of certain laws and then the individual concept, even from the same portfolio, is interpreted differently through that law. Although, it says certain concepts are within the meaning of this law, so somehow it seems to me that it would be good because of the elemental hygiene of regulations that when we have some concepts that these concepts have some kind of touch points. What exactly am I talking about? When it comes to the Industrial Area, you have tied this area to the fact that it is outlined in the Catastrian Plans and that it is outlined in spatial planning based on a special regulation. Now, when it comes to catastrian plans, given that it's on several occasions, and from this pay phone, we talked about the fact that we have catastrian plans, that we have old plans, that they're outdated, I'm afraid there's going to be a little bit of a problem in the implementation. And when it comes to spatial planning, there are really spatial plans in which they are defined for the purposes of space inundation area. But we have spatial plans that aren't, and I think there's going to be a problem with your performance. Well, it's kind of my advice since we're going to have another reading, that between the first and second readings a little with colleagues who are competent to comment on it. And then we come up with the idea of a flooded area and now it's that area that's beyond the limits of the induction area that's going to be a big problem for you, believe me, because in the cataster, I've seen very few times the border of the induction, in spatial plans I've seen something but in terms of issuing certain permits from the aspect of what the Industrial area is, and the flooded area is a concept with which you're going to have an awful lot of problems. So, flooded otherwise, you have in your charts, so now that I don't talk too much about spatial order, in order to have three charts, you have the purpose of the surface, then you have the infrastructure, and there are third terms and methods of use. There are plenty of county plans and municipal plans in the terms and methods of use that have marked the area that is blue. Between the first and second readings, give a working meeting with colleagues who are from the aspect of protection, i.e. from the aspect of the spatial arrangement to try to reconcile there. So your wish was to define and that's what you said in terms of what the Industrial Area is and what's a flooded area. And now that question is from the point of view, you have spatial planning, you have a cadastre in terms of induction you have again the fundamentals of the water industry, give it a little bit of synchronise that when you already define it to be, you have a problem with the implementation, so that it becomes more clear to you what it is. In a flooded area, I'm having a little bit of a problem, because then the flooded area can be anything else that happens to you, sometimes... The flood has some kind of experience and everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This induction is bothering me. It bothers me in other things, and this is actually what I said, and I said that we as a club and we'll support the introduction, but if we already have a need to define it in more detail, just give it, because you're going to have a problem. As you just said, we have a problem, so we define it, this way it's not clear to the end, or you connect to the documents that define it in some other way than the ones that you need. So then there's my advice that you sit there a little bit between the two readings, you see, you see, that you clearly say what you want in the law to define it so that you can bond with the documents properly because you're going to force someone into a spatial plan and that's going to be different lines or different lines. In any case, as I was saying at the outset, this law wasn't something we weren't expecting, we were expecting it, it's in terms of some technical things it's done correctly. My advice is when it comes next time or you'll have the opportunity to refer or the next time we see a little bit about what I generally support and I think it's good and it's real, and it's actually the one, and it's the electronic apps, that maybe in a few sentences you say about how far it's come, what's the deadlines, what's working today, what's going to improve is sure it's good and it's a good picture of the Republic that you have some kind of apps, that someone in terms of tourism or who's also fishing, so they'll come, I don't know, because of some other things to get the right direction, and not that it turns out to be something in the law, and that, as we had the Law on light pollution, 13 years, it wouldn't be good anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125270	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Allen Prelec's turn in front of the SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125271	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, well, here's a little apology, when I was talking about the previous Marine Fisheries Act, it's clear that the second reading, that we had the opportunity to discuss, thank my colleague, who helped me with that. Here, this law is in the first reading, between the two readings, clearly that here, we can improve some more things. In fact, our representatives were involved in agreeing on this Law and we support it entirely. I'm saying, this is the first reading, but I would take the opportunity to read to all of you what I got in the letter, it's from the Director of the Lonj Field, so I'm going to read here in full, so that maybe here's a little comment, that you all hear what it's about. In fact, fishing in the Lonjsko field as well as in the Sava River has always had multiple meanings and values. The local population on the shores of this area has been feeding on fish for generations, and fishing and fish processing has been the main economic activity of this area for centuries. Over the last 50 years, fishing rights have been reduced to traditional fishermen until the gradual extinction of their craft. Nature park Lonjsko polje with its preserved natural values and cultural heritage provides the possibility for residents of this region to be restored and used in the context of rural tourism, traditional fishing to a significant and quality tourist content, thus facilitating the survival and survival of residents of this region. A meeting was held at the headquarters of the Lonjsko Polje public institution, a round table on the subject of the draft new Law on freshwater fisheries, and this way, following the discussion of the same, we invite you to include in the new Act on freshwater fisheries currently in the Assembly procedure a new category of traditional fisheries that would be allowed in areas where the profession determines that available resources exist, to prescribe selective tools, and that it takes place in a sustainable manner. In fact, traditional fishing in Lonjsko polje has been declared a cultural immaterial good, a solution by the Ministry of Culture since 2008, but in the existing Law on freshwater fisheries, as well as a draft of the new Law, no area of traditional fishing is regulated. Therefore, residents in the area of nature park Lonjsko polje cannot use traditional tools, nor do they engage in traditional fishing. This topic is extremely important for people living in the area of Lonjsko polje park for the development of tourism, as well as for the preservation of culture, and if we want to keep them in this area, we should only enable the sustainable development of the area of nature park Lonjsko polje and give them the opportunity to deal with traditional fisheries. Here, so my request goes in this sense to really consider this proposal of people in Lonjsko polje, but not just in Lonjsko polje. We have many other areas that may not be covered by this category of traditional fishing, and I believe that with your good intentions, between these two readings, you will consider these suggestions and appreciate to what extent is possible. Here, we will in any case support this bill in the first reading, but I say, please consider the efforts of people who, behold, traditionally want to maintain this freshwater fishing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125272	Thank you, too. We are now moving on to the only individual debate, it is Mr Tomislav Lipoščak's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125273	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and Associates, here, we have before us a proposal for a new Law on freshwater fisheries and the Law is, in fact, clearly divided economically from sports fishing. I will base myself in my debate and look exactly at the works that talk about sports fishing, mostly from the view and from the angle of sports fishing societies. And this legislative proposal, as well as all those other legislative proposals that want to be fixed and improved, of course I welcome and, of course, we are mostly not in the field, nor in the law, but only in its implementation. And that is why I would also refer to several provisions of the Law itself, which we may be a little vague or illogical or which I would like to comment on or study in more detail and discuss. Let's get in line, in art. The 18th century 1 defines that fish in sport fishing are allowed to fish for persons who have passed a fishing test, have a fishing licence, and use authorised fishing techniques. However, in St. 2., we list exceptions, and these are persons under the age of 14, and those who do not hunt on the basis of annual permits. Therefore, those two categories do not have to have a fishing exam, and it is also stated that persons under the age of 14, of course, must be accompanied by a person or a fisherman who has an appropriate licence. The question arises as to why, in fact, people who buy daily or multi-day permits do not have to have their fishing exams passed? It happens, in fact, that a situation can happen that even people of St. 2, meaning under the age of 14, can be accompanied by a person who has a one-day fishing licence who also doesn't have a license. I could even accept an explanation in consultation with the public in which this provision is seen positively in terms of, in fact, tourist offers or as regards the massification of fishing tourism, but perhaps it would be good to consider then that the prices of fishing licences are different, i.e., that day-to-day fishing licences are different amounts for those who have passed the fishing exam, unlike those who do not. A specific example I will tell you, namely, a person who has passed a fishing exam, can be a member of a fishing society, when he buys a fishing licence, for a zone outside the territory of his society, i.e., the authorising officer, pays a certain price for that licence, and that's fine. However, I think that a person without a fishing exam, who does the same, might be more likely to pay for that permit, and this difference, between those prices, would be invested in a particular special fund, which would be, let's say, at the level of some kind of fishing service. I believe that persons who, without permission, without having passed a fishing exam go fishing, should be subject to stricter control on the ground itself, means through the Fish Guard Service. When I touched the fishing exams, I would like to appeal to the Croatian Sports fishing alliance, to update the fishing exams itself urgently, since they haven't changed for many years, so we have absurd situations, that in the exams we find ourselves on the names of non-use ministries we can already say for 10 years. He would also ask the same question, which is why the fishing exams, which have been passed in the Republic of Croatia, are not valid abroad, while we generally accept the fishing exams that come to us from other countries, I think that the alliance should be further engaged and made some kind of effort, in order for our conviction to be accepted, at least in the countries that are members of the EU. The very quality of fishing exams could also be better and certainly necessary, once again I will say and restore and refresh, and perhaps consider a certain practical part, through education on the ground. The law is also in Art. 21 defines daily, multiannual and annual fishing licences, and the right to purchase an annual licence, have members of the alliance that have passed the fishing exam. Now we're going back to the fishing exam, which I think is fine. However, paragraph 3 states that they shall also be entitled to, where a fishing rights officer is a natural person, craftsman, cooperatives, a company or any other business entity, which, in accordance with specific regulations, cannot be included in an alliance, of course with the payment of all financial obligations of the authorising officer. Now I'm going to repeat the question, in this case with a fishing exam, whether or not, in that case, people who buy an annual permit, for these persons means righteous and this has to have a fishing exam or not, because on the field of interpretation they're different, so that it doesn't actually happen, that with two practical categories of authorisation we have two categories of fishermen, one with one obligation, the other with other obligations. Likewise, in my opinion, maybe a little bit of a problem, that is, the vague item is art. 24. which defines that fish stocks and sport fishing are managed in the fishing zone, and based of course on the management plan. However, paragraph 6 says this does not apply to private-owned land. Whether private land is not subject to legal provisions, or not to the provisions of the management plan. In particular, if we are in that house that has private property on both sides, whether on that part, whether or not the provisions of the law apply to that fishing zone, or whether those provisions apply to the provisions of the management plan of that fishing water. Article 29 is also defined by the management plan and paragraph 6 states that in the case of seagoing fish of more than 1/3... masses assessed by the management plan, as well as in the case of the declaration of major natural disasters, such as flood, drought, etc. I will underline this word of the sea here, I think it would be good to consider replacing this word can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will tell you in particular, I am a member of the sports fishing society of Ogulin, which manages among other things the River Dobro, which is extremely loud and is actually the culprit for many floods, which have been cutting us down all these years, so that very often, especially lately, there has been a declaration of elemental disasters. In this case, we will have an obligation to make a revision, to review the management plan, even though the flood itself in those parts does not cause too much damage to the indigenous species of fish mainly in the area, to the stream trout, so I appeal if this must be subject to review, we can overload, or, re-recast into the can. We're also changing our fee schedule for fishing licenses by this law, now it's 20% on the authority, 40% on the Sava, and 40% on the budget. So far there have been 80% of the mandated, 10% of the alliance and 10% of the budget, which means that since 2020, when this provision comes into force, the authorities themselves lose 60% of their income, in fact, from those fishing license fees, and these 20 are strictly intended for the development of plans and information. And it is inevitable that if the price of the licence, i.e. the fee, remains the same, that it will obviously have to increase those other fees that we so popularly call membership fees, which make up the total price of the license on a particular fishing zone, and I don't think that it will be a problem on those attractive waters where there is great pressure from fishermen and a large number of people, however, in rural areas, in less attractive waters, this could be, we might say, a financial attack and a problem for certain societies to be brought to a smaller number of members, and thus to have their functioning brought under the questionnaire. Unless the ministry decides to reduce the fee and the difference between current and lower fees, fishing companies can be used to increase their internal fees. The same way we provide for electronic catch records, and the purchase of licences through network applications. I just hope that we can find ways to make them available to everyone, make sure that a large part of our fishermen are at the age of three, so I don't think that they're often very informative of that skillful and written, that we'll find a way to make it possible for them, too. And in the end, we would withdraw the analogy of one with hunting, namely, for foreign citizens, to allow fishing with valid permits. I'm back on the issue of day and day licenses. Foreign hunters on the basis of the hunting card of their country of origin receive the hunting card given to them by the Croatian Hunting Union, it would not be bad if we did something similar through the fishing alliance, so that they must, in essence, present a fishing licence of the parent alliances. And the only other thing about the rulebook is that the deadline for adoption is 2 years, they define a very broad area of fact that is related to this law, I appeal that this deadline, or that these rules be adopted a little earlier, since it has been taking place since 2020, a series of provisions of this law into force, such as catch records, catch markings, etc. the adoption of these rules in the preceding period would certainly be necessary and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125274	Thank you very much. Now the State Secretary, Ms. Marija Vukkovic, will take the final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125275	Here I thank all those who debated on behalf of the club and individually for all the benefits of suggestions and for the support of the proposal of the Law on freshwater fishing. As for the additional remarks or open questions, I'll start with the last one because I'm afraid I'll forget about it. With regard to reducing the price of exams, the exam should now be 100 kuna, and it was 400 kuna, we believe that it will be enough since we want to administratively relieve the system, and on the other hand, this difference, according to our plan, will be compensated by membership fees that will be released from value added tax, so it will have 20% 25% more than so far. As far as the possibility of a person under 14 years of age catching a fish without a license is concerned, this exception is made possible mostly because of the promotion of tourism and family arrivals refers to children under the age of 14 who are accompanied by a fish that has a licence, but here we will consider once again whether the benefits of tourism are greater or possibly damage in this section. The question referred to the exception of Article 21 is one question, i.e. regarding the obligation to pass the exams, so everyone has to pass the fishing exam, and in that part they are all, the conditions are the same for each and no exceptions. The pensioners will still be able to continue regardless of our goal and the intention of introducing an interactive electronic database and exchange, the pensioners will be able to perform this freshwater fishing and use their rights in the same way as before. Management plans, so far the programme has brought an alliance under the existing freshwater fishing law, under the new freshwater fishing law, the programme for passing exams, the management plans are all defined by the ministry, so that we believe that here will be a better quality in cooperation with others. And it also means the application of electronic data exchange, we expect that after the entry into force of the law within 3 months, since we will be fully in a reduced form, because it is a little less demanding, apply the system that we have established and fully functioning in marine fisheries. We had a question still related to Lonjsko polje, Ministry of Agriculture, the Fisheries Administration took part in a roundtable organised on 17 September 2018 in connection with a request for the introduction of a new category called "traditional fishing". As a state, we have determined two categories of fishing, an economic one for which it is mandatory to record, monitor traceability, regulate the market and non-economic in which it is preceded by sports fishing. Let us understand the question of traditional fishing and respect the fact that it is this kind of fishing but as a tool, not as an area protected as an immaterial cultural good, the ministry, by the decision of the Ministry of Culture and Parliament of 2008. We will in this time which is before us once again consider how it is possible to appreciate this, this kind of tool as particularly valuable, cultural, immaterial good of Croatia, but we do not think that economic fishing will be possible in the Lonjsko field, it is not possible to introduce a new category for just one type of nature park, we do not perform economic fishing in national parks and in nature parks, and so we think that we should remain still, especially in the Lonjsko field which is one of the last two yards of numerous indigenous fish in southeastern Europe. However, we believe that something can be done to help these traditional tools that are protected get special value and so that residents of Lonjsko polje can live even better and we will say in the time ahead of them to see how we could better use fishing gears, which part of them could be applied in economic fishing and not in Lonjsko field, which we can do with the application of selective fishing that can also help them, and in Lonjsko field sport fishing would be allowed, so we will see what of these traditional tools can be used in the section relating to sports fishing. We certainly support their efforts, but I say it is, protection refers to a kind of tool in which special knowledge, skills are embedded in the Croatian people and not to the area and we will try to apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125276	The first is Mr. Križanić as the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, I warmly welcome you. The cormorant is known to do great damage to freshwater fisheries. Since it was not possible to place cormorants in the Hunting Wildlife Act, so that their numbers could be controlled by a firearm. I wonder if damages from EU cormorants from that Rural Development Fund can be obtained as well as other agricultural damages? I get these questions a lot, so I'm asking you for a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125278	The answer to Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125279	Thank you very much. Honorable representative, for damage caused by cormorants in freshwater fishing, especially in carpal fishing, it is possible to obtain compensation. This compensation is not intended by using structural funds, however, we ordered one study during 2017 and we sent a request to the European Commission for the notification of state support, it is a process even more complex than this process, but the same process in agriculture takes a little longer. And we got, it's the first state aid in fishing notified by the European Commission, and now we're working on some other examples of protection from predators in the Bay of Maloston and not only, we're not just working on the subject. So we've notified that support. In the State budget for 2018 we were also reserved funds for that year but given that in 2017, the year after the transitional period ours, so the owners of the carpan ponds had not received any state support and could no longer use that old classic eco rent, so that they were paid a double amount, it is still below the notified support per hectare... They mostly got support and [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thanks, we're a little out of time, enough.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125280	But you have another replica, so you'll be able to continue. And the second line has Mr. Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125281	I thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned traditional fishing and I also believe that respect for tradition and that it would be good to find a solution, but of course with caution that the fish fund really represents a great potential for us and a very important natural resource. And here's a request that when you find that solution along the Lonjsko field, you activate our Kopački ass in Baranja and represent one of the two nests in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125282	Here you go, OK, good. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, probably Friday will get the conditions. And now, tomorrow morning, Thursday, January 24th at 9.30 p.m., we continue the debate with the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Police Cooperation in Southeast Europe, an important law. Go and breed. SECURE Interrupted at 16.34 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-23-0.u125283	Proposal for a Law on freshwater fishing, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 515, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on freshwater fisheries and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when setting out the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 109 for, 15 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, honourable MPs, respected MPs. One notice before work starts. On Sunday 27 January, the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims is marked when the whole world pays deep respect to victims of Nazi persecution and genocide against the Jewish people and members of minorities, as well as to all victims of Nazi and fascist regimes throughout II. World War I. I invite you, therefore, to join, tomorrow, on Friday 25th of January at 8.45 p.m. at the place of the crown at the Jewish site of Mirogoj's cemetery outside the sculpture of Moses. At the beginning of the plenary session, I will also address the Croatian Assembly tomorrow, after which we will honor all the victims of the Holocaust with a minute of silence. We will now move to the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Police Cooperation in Southeast Europe, Second Reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207 and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would now ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior, Honorable Zarko Katic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
