ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139054	Mr. President, Minister Pavić informs us through the video that if he stays like the unions are asking for 45 billion kuna, that's what he's trying to impose on citizens as a fact, and it's a pure lie. He makes fun of people at their expense, at the expense of the budget, so I guess people know how much their pensions will be increased or the minister thinks that because of his videos, the pensioners will see through and realize that they live in prosperity. It is a pre-election campaign that violates electoral laws, violates the Law on Referendum, violates good practice in the Republic of Croatia, and in addition to the price of making a video, the minister should very clearly answer some of the questions I asked him on 18.11.2018 when he also had a campaign of a similar name. But since he hasn't answered until today, it's six months and I've been asking questions to the prime minister last week, so I hope the prime minister and the government will answer these simple questions. What is the objective of the campaign since the Pension Insurance Act has been in force since 1 January 2019? How much funding is provided for the campaign from, to so-called. The full reform of the pension system, I call it the octrossed reform of the pension system? How much is planned for media advertising on television, how much on radio, how much on media, social networks, and how much on print media? How much money has been spent so far? Most importantly, I looked at the budget, from which positions of the campaign budget were paid and how much of the funds at the position of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system are foreseen? Were the services in question listed in the procurement plan and in case they were, please provide me when and at what time? Based on what decisions is the campaign approved and how long is the campaign planned? On the basis of which tender was selected a media lease company and if no media minute rental company was contracted, who contracted from the ministry or from the government and by what criteria? With this pay phone, I'm telling the citizens, don't let Minister Pavic, Prime Minister Plenkovic and the government lie to you, and that your money is clouding your eyes, 45 billion don't exist, 45 billion is something the government invented to intimidate the citizens. But this week I got another amazing answer to my simple question, how many ministers are using the E-Citizen system? I will remind you that digitisation has been an important topic of all HDZ campaigns since Karamark. I received an incredible answer from the Government, believe it or not, that because of the GDPR Pira of the European Data Protection Regulation, I cannot tell which of the ministers is using the system of e-Citizens. Obviously they don't use any, because if they did, they'd say. It is amazing that the Republic of Croatia in 2019, that the Government in 2019, I didn't ask for passwords, I didn't ask for passwords, I didn't ask for anything, I just asked for one number, how many ministers in the government use the system e-Citizens, 2, 3, 5, 10 or all, the government didn't answer that. But what is going to happen to government and HDZ e-Citizens when they are able to boast that they will hire another 500 new employees on the state manger at the State Inspectorate, so each of them will have their own e-birth in the administration, which through WhatsApp or Viber will inform what they need, it is digitisation by HDZ and it is a digital vision of the Republic of Croatia in 2019. Unfortunately, that's what we've seen since the '90s, that's the way HDZ works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139055	Let's move on, HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's club, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139056	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I've already talked on several occasions about the need for a ban on Sundays, so I'm going to talk a little bit about it today, but I'm actually going to point out some illogicalities in the legal provisions that work. Since 2009, the Rules of Working Time and other forms of trade have been defined in a small way as to how and how trade time is determined. That rule is in effect today. This Regulation uses the notion of headship, referring to municipal and city heads, which has long since become a direct selection of local officials, local leaders. In the current law which has recently entered into force, Article 2 which defined work on Sundays is hereby expelled from that Regulation. It is clearly stated in that rule that Sunday’s retail trades can work on Sundays from 8 to 13 hours on an exceptional eve of the holidays and in the 12th month. I can work until 6:00. At that time, decisions were made by local authorities managing local communities. What am I trying to say and what am I trying to point out? I would like to point out that, at this point in time, by placing out of force this Article 2 of this Regulation, nothing in Croatian legislation is defined at all and does not mention work on Sundays, therefore in any way. Sunday has been identified with all other days, it is equal and it is not particularly stressed anywhere. I again appeal, if there is already great effort in both the most intelligent policy and the preservation of life in Croatia and in some way the stimulation of young people to stay here, to stimulate their families, to appeal again, to work Sundays is a very important segment of national policy. It's a very important segment and it's not the endome in the environment, we know that neighbouring developed countries have an unworkable Sunday. I am indeed pointing out that this illogicalness of that law and regulation, once again I appeal, repeat and pray, as first of all, to comply with these documents from the resolution ministry and secondly, to seriously consider the adoption of a legislative regulation on a working week. If we want to protect our family, if we want mothers to have children and take care of their children and most young women are working right in shops and malls, then we think of the possibility, a great opportunity to make life easier for them and allow them to be with their children, at least on Sundays, to be with their families at least on Sundays and thus to keep that core, that foundation for every society, which is family, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139057	The second is counterpart Branko Hrg on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139058	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is a card for all who participated in the elections and who were chosen and I want them to be able to represent political interests in their groups, but to have the strongest group as this Croatian group together. Today I answered a word about a problem which has been very culminating in the area of Koprivnica-Kristevnica County, i.e. the town of Koprivnica, in recent days. It is a business where the Croatian state has 20.5% stakes. By doing so, of course, we, as Parliamentarians, have a certain responsibility and obligation to express our views especially if citizens and people in some area are asked to do so, especially in the area from which we are represented. So these days, news came in Koprivnica that one production, the basic production of which Podravka was made and that is the production of jams and marmalades moving from Koprivnica from Podravka to Varazdin. So I have no objection to Podravka developing like any company, opening up its facilities throughout Croatia but, of course, outside of Croatia all over the world, but I do not mind doing it in a way that is being shut down in the queen and being opened elsewhere. It is not clear to me, and it is not clear to people there in Koprivnica and Koprivnica Podravina, as well as to the entire Koprivnica and Križevci County, which is actually happening. He says the management of Podravka that it is an economy, that it is the business of the company, that politics should not be mixed in, and then we read on some portals that the management of Podravka has been constantly talking to Mr. Mayor of the City of Varazdin about the move of the jam in Varazdin. So now I don't understand it, and it's not clear to people there either why the Podravka administration hasn't talked to local self-government leaders in the Koprivnica-Kristevci County in that way and asked for ways to open up new OPGs, how to develop co-operation, how to spread this type of production in that area, but to talk on another side. It looks like a bee hive to me, they tell the Podravs that they're very hardworking and hardworking people, which is true, like bees are working, silent and working. And now that we're looking at this situation with this Podravka and the pesetasar and the decisions the administration makes, then I'd like to paint it so vividly as a bee community. You know, Podravka's queen is a pessimist, so it's a queen, all the other bees that work. And today, if you take the queen out of that hive, what happens to the bee community? She splits up, she splits up, she just breaks up, disappears. And that's exactly what's happening here right now. And I call really out of this place on behalf of all those people there in Koprivnica and the Koprivnica Podravina primarily to take another good look at this decision and that this queen is not getting out of the hive, so that something that once happened to the crusader Mlinar where the state couldn't influence, where politics couldn't get in the way because she didn't have any part of the company. You know, Mlinar was in the Križevci, the leadership, the management, the owners made a decision to move something a little bit over there, and the Mlinar was no longer in the Križevci, in the Križevci and the production went out, as if it had never been there. He is today a branded company and he operates on world markets, on European markets but is no longer in the Križevci. And the policy is to promote even development, to preserve life in all parts of Croatia. And Podravka as such, I was really pleased when a special sector for agriculture was opened in Podravka in this term of office. I expected that this would be exactly what was going to happen, that there would be productions that would gather the OPGs, that would expand agricultural production and move on, this message would not be taken out of the hive again because the hive would be blown away.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139059	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139060	The HDS, HSLS and HDSB representatives' club also appeared for participation, for taking a stand. In their name, President Branko Hrg will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have already talked here on several occasions about the problems of shorter and cutting and devasting private forests and I dare say that these are no longer controversial phenomena, that this is clearly about a certain kind of organised, organised activity, not to say organised crime. I also asked a representative question in writing about one part of it alone, in the Bjelovar-Bylogorian County, I received an answer that over 32 cases were recorded, that in this 32 cases it was taken to mean somewhere stealing about 1,000, over 100 meters of cubic wood, but what was clearly seen from the answer was that there were no effects that generally the owners failed to do anything, that the reports had gone, that the inspections had been made, so it was reported to this or to that end. It's just one segment of what's happening in our society and it's causing one great uncertainty of the citizens and one suspicion of the system. So the citizens are completely unprotected. That simple man who struggles with some of his problems every day has no way of believing that the system will protect him. And we're looking at it all and looking at it like it's happening somewhere else, but it's happening here. Yesterday I was at a meeting where there was talk of some small-time thefts, some chickens, salads, this one, that one. So I'm talking about stealing wood, cutting through the woods. You have constant appearances of theft, they say small thefts are generally not sanctioned, they don't run procedures and steal small values and people simply don't have any more faith in that system, they simply have no hope of doing anything, they're doing nothing anymore. And in this not doing anything, of course, that this other side that uses this stronger goes very well in the direction that more and more theft occurs, that society is destabilised, that even more uncertainty is being built into our country, into our system, among citizens, and that people are becoming more and more disheartened, simply have no more will. And that's one of the reasons we meet the most, and that's moving and running from Croatia. They don't believe in the system. We didn't allow some of the most basic things to be sanctioned, to protect an honest man. And from this place I again call on the state services, the state institutions to unite now, and now we have a united inspection service at the State Inspectorate, I believe that there will be some shifts and joint action. I call for all of this to be united and agreed together with the police, with the judiciary, and for everyone to stand together in the protection of an ordinary exposed man to attack someone on the side every day. We have literally predators in society who use holes in laws and do a very good job and no one can do anything to them. So, today is a very common sentence “to whom I will complain, no one can help me, ” this one does, and that one does, and no one can do anything to him, and everyone knows everything and no one does anything, and then we wonder when various events occur, when people themselves come into the protection of themselves, their families, and there are problems. I think it's high time to really do something, that this system starts to work, if it needs to change some laws, let some of this sort of thing in society start to work out in the right way, to give people a sense of security that in the Republic they can live as safely as possible, that they are not exposed to these social predators that are growing more and that are extremely successful at using the shortcomings of the law and the failure of the system in everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139062	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. As always, when we have our first day of plenary session in the week, we have a discussion of clubs and independent representatives, free speech, so today is the first in line for a respected colleague, Branko Hrg, on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139063	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I recently spoke here about the problem of moving one production from Podravka from Koprivnica to Varazdin, before that I had passed the business deadline and asked a written question and asked some answers regarding certain financial matters in Podravka. I've been following events these days, and I've been warned by people who work in this company, but also by those who live in Koprivnica and Koprivnica Podravina about some illogical things that appear in the media. Since Podravka is a company where the state has 25.6% ownership, then I think it's good to ask questions and ask the answers to make things clear because if things don't clear up then it can all go in some other direction and who knows how to end it. Today, I would like to point out two dissuasive posts in various media outlets that appeared on the business of Podravka last year, for last year. We have in the business journal and in one local portal e-Podravina 25.2. published article where it says: Podravka Group in the past year achieved the best result in long history. All right, the group also has companies that are outside of Croatia and those as such when all the sums are of course given certain results but we are primarily interested in what is with Podravka in Koprivnica, which is with Belup in Koprivnica. And then we have an announcement from June 23rd on a portal Danica.hr that reads: The sale of Podravka and Belupa failed seriously last year. And now a man who's not a financier, doesn't deal with these things the way I am, stays confused, something's wrong. And then we come up with some more data that says that according to the data sales of Podravka d.d. Last year it was 2.06 billion kuna, almost 6% lower than the year before. Belupo simultaneously generates 697 million revenue, which is 2.4% less than the cut. There are therefore no related companies in these figures, no Slovenian Žit, Sarajevo Farmavita or Czech Lagris. The group showed a rise in revenue from earlier, but key companies failed. The fact is also said that Podravka on the scale of the largest Croatian companies fell from 28 to 32 places, and also one information that is very interesting and I particularly want to point out because it is also in some way related to what I was saying when the move from Koprivnica to Varazdin was announced, yes, it is the number of employees. So while Podravka and Belupo boasted last year that as many as 200 workers had been employed indefinitely, the data from Fine and Leader revealed that employment was falling. That Podravka had about 3,100 workers last year or 50 less than the clan. I really want to ask a question here right now. What's with the data? Whether they're consciously done like that in the group, and then they extract one segment just eating out where they show the greatest results, the best results, and then on the other hand we have other data that shows a whole other state. What's the reason, what's the point in all this? And do we, as representatives, represent those shareholders 25.6% of Croatian citizens in the end have the right to know the answer to these questions?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139064	We are now going to the 3rd debate, the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Representatives Club, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139065	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, so I'm not going to talk about anything new that I haven't talked about here before, but I think there's another topic that's being updated in terms of pressures, about reducing VAT in tourist activities in catering. I'm going to go back a little bit to the ones, the amendments to the law, those changes when VAT is cut to some living foods we can say by one short term. And then we expected that there would be a significant price reduction in the stores of those products that, of course, people use in everyday life for the diet and products they need for everyday life, but there is nothing from it all, there is no such thing. So we have a situation that is likely to significantly increase the profits of those dealing with trade, which is fine but on the other hand we have not achieved the effect that was planned to achieve, and that was a reduction in prices and a possible increase in the salaries of people working in the sector. Now we have a situation of certain pressure, so people who work in tourism to reduce VAT. That's probably the kind of proposal that's gonna come before us soon. So there would be little good to go back to when this VAT was reduced and compare how much wages in that sector were raised at the time, how much services were cheaped, whether they must at all be cheaped or not, it is now another thing especially for a tourist country and whether they must at all be just as high in some parts as they are is the same question that we can consider. But here I want to actually pass on one message to our forward finance minister when it will prepare the announced new amendments to the law again in tax redistributions to be well-analyzed whether it is really necessary to have differentiated VAT rates, whether it is a better option for this VAT to be leveled and for all that money collected from VAT to be directed and invested in people's wages to be disbursed absolutely and increased net pay. Today we have a situation where we keep saying there's no labour force, there's no people to find, people to leave, they won't work for small wages. And the other day I'm talking to a young fellow citizen of ours, a young Christian who is a master, went to Germany, works there at the company has as much salary as he had in Croatian kunas as there are thousands in euros in Germany. And he says I'd be very working back for a significantly lower salary but if my wife had a job for some normal salary and that I could have some normal salary because I'd be happy to live still in Croatia and I plan to come back. So I just think that this time in the fall there is probably a new package of amendments to the laws of reform in the tax system that have yielded good results and fruits in this part of it now the activities of this government and this ministry that we really have in the first place laws that will go directly towards citizens, directly towards people who get paid, directly to their salaries because everything else is going in the wrong direction. Only in this way can we begin to build one social peace, one more positive climate in society which is definitely not there now, which is bad and the indicators of the figures that are listed are not bad. So that further step should be made and people begin to create an atmosphere of a more satisfying way of life, one of the pleasures of life in Croatia. Now, this is a message to the ministry, and I hope that it will take a good and fat look at every item, all the effects, and will then come up with a good proposal before this HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139066	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The first day of the plenary session of the week so we begin with a free speech on behalf of clubs and independent representatives. The first one came to the floor today by a respected colleague, Branko Hrg, on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139067	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I want to open up today some questions that have come up naturally because of the law in this assembly. The Animal Protection Act did not cause those effects that were planned in the consumption of money at local level but is multiplicated and amounts significantly more to what I personally pointed out in the discussion of the law itself. So that it doesn't turn out here that I'm against animals and I don't like animals, I'll repeat, I've already talked about it several times and it says that I have my whole life in my backyard, I love them, I love them, I love them, and I care about them, but what happened to the adoption of this law that has been passed clearly under the pressure of certain groups of people who haven't had any animals in their lives and who have taken care of them, and they say that they are animal guards, leads to huge problems in the functioning of local self-government and leads to a great effort. Now I've been pulling data from the Crosstown budget. I'm going to say very plastic what's going on. So for housing dogs in shelter at the annual level, the city provides and must pay about 300,000 kuna. About 12,000 kunas a year cost a dog an accommodation. Dogs live in cages 2x4 m per few pieces, 5 to 7 pieces, and then I ask if we respect the provisions of the law that dogs must be free, that they must move freely, that they must not be in cages, etc.? We don't respect. So there's the death of dogs because they live in packs, in these same shelters, so we have a really radical situation. And now we're moving on. The city stands out another 50 000 kunas for chipping, plus 100 000 kuna for subsidizing castration. So 450,000 kuna separates the town of Križevci for the care of dogs under the Animal Protection Act. Now watch out, about 200 children are born annually in the Križevci. For many years, the city has an incentive gift for the newborn, in this year it's increased compared to previous years, so it wouldn't be like I'm saying some critical things, no. There was an increase in the amount compared to previous years. 260 000 kunas singled out the city for newborn children annually and 450,000 kunas are set aside for the care and housing of dogs according to the law that was passed in this assembly. In other cities and municipalities, the situation is even more disproportionate. I'm really asking a question, is there a more valuable man for us, is he a more valuable child to us, or is he a more valuable animal to us? I love animals, I repeat again, but what we do is not good, it doesn't lead in the right direction. I'm about to help animals take care of animals, but what we did has nothing to do with common sense. I appeal here again to the legislators of this law, to the Resolute Ministry, please analyse the effect of implementing the law for the first 6 months. This year and we need to intervene urgently in the law because this doesn't make any absolute sense. Let's turn to the people, turn to the children, turn to the old people, turn to the subsidisation and this life, turn to the social needs for which we single out less than we do for housing a dog in a shelter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139068	Now we will temporarily stop to discuss this item of the agenda and the foundation of the article. 249 and move on to the club stand. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139069	Now we're gonna get some traffic on the music. Here, since I live in a city that cultivates music culture, has a very well-reputed music school, I am asked by music culture teachers and music art teachers, the head of county expert councils for music culture, throughout Croatia to present one of their problems with the Ministry of Culture, i.e. with the minister. I'll read their memo. In January 2019, Minister Blaženka Divjak signed a curicul of music culture which retains the existing rights of music culture teachers to teach from 4th to 8th grade of elementary school and adds the possibility of teaching to the 3rd grade of primary school if there is a need in school. But with a sudden new decision of 10 June 2019, the minister abolishes not only the possibility of teaching music culture in the third grade but also completely abolishes the right of the teachers of music culture in the 4th grade of primary school. The same decision calls into question the performance of the electoral and university teaching of music and extracurricular music activities, such as choirs, orchestras, etc. All of these rights have been regulated by law for 29 years but are related to the curricula and the programme that ceases to apply as soon as a new curricula enters into force. So, with a new curricula, the existing rights are abolished. With such a move, Minister Divjak does not just erase the decision made, but wipes the smile off our children's faces to question their well-being, their right to free music education, taking away their ability to develop their creativity, creativity, critical opinion that they freely express themselves in a clear and relaxed environment. In fact, music culture teachers have been teaching in 4th grade for 29 years. The fact is, music culture teachers have been teaching since the 1-3rd grade of elementary schools if teachers have been using a bonus for 29 years. Of the 800 music culture teachers working in primary schools, 83% teach music culture in 4th grade. 12% of them have been teaching music culture since the 1st-4th grade because of the use of teacher or class teacher bonuses. So 95% of music culture teachers teach music culture in class classes. The remaining 5% of teachers have already lost the right to lecture in the 4th grade, which is combined because it has been abolished and directly discriminated against the right of students in the combined follow-up to equal education. Most of them work in rural areas in combined configuration. The decision made contrary to the existing law on primary and secondary education, the curriculum and the programme, the pedagogical standard, the rule on the weekly working obligations of teachers and the collective contract resulting in the final application of the new musical culture curricula gradually ending in 2021 the existing rights set out in the above rules and being challenged by the constitutionality of such a decision by the Minister. Thus, this decision created a legal gap that would cause a number of technological surpluses, conditional cancellations and shipping. And the most important question is, are we ready for a reform that will take from children's lives educational subjects year after year? Music culture today develops speech skills, confidence, socialization, memory, reduces stress and has a therapeutic effect, since the intensity of involving children with developmental difficulties in the regular teaching process should be borne in mind that music culture has a very positive impact on children with disabilities. With the question when the minister will receive them for the conversation of music culture teachers, 800 of them remind old Plato's "The better music in the country, the better the state will be." I call on Minister Divjak to receive representatives of teachers of music culture and to try to find a way out of this situation as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139070	I'd like to thank my colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139071	Let's move on, colleague Zekanovic, as an independent representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139072	Today some announce leaving Zagreb from Croatia, in Brussels and announce it on tractors, that it will go on tractors in Brussels. I'll have a nice... An interesting parallel, 74 years ago, according to this same Europe, some of them just from Zagreb, on this day, went for help, to be saved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they came to Austria, however, there was no salvation, they were returned to their villains, they were masculinely killed, they passed the cross road, and then these days, we remember marking the Bleiburg tragedy, one of the greatest tragedies of the Croatian people. And come all the way to Bleiburg, don't be afraid. Don't be afraid of those who want to intimidate you and tell you Bleiburg is not the place to go. Nothing happened on Bleiburg, nothing happened, something happened, and there should be gone, and Croats must never forget Bleiburg. These days in Croatia, we will demonstrate another way, which the Croats actually think is a very important issue, and this is a matter of life protection. So in several Croatian cities, in May we will have a walk to live. And they scare us again and say don't come. Do not show what the Croatian people think about one bad law of abortion, and I invite you, come to be in as large a number as possible, that the government, that Andrej Plenkovic, in particular, knows what the Croatian people think. But I will tell all those who will come for a walk for life anywhere, but also for this home here, from the Croatian Parliament, let them not come unless they have signed and are not for the law on the protection of life, which I have just handed over in the procedure. So, the place where you fellow MPs should defend your life is the Croatian Parliament, not the street. You're not being sued for parading, you're being asked to vote. So, make sure, especially here, I mean my colleagues HDZ, that the law that's in the process, comes here for discussion and to protect our final lives. I must also point out here, one referendum, which is coming to us, and the most important referendum, perhaps more important than any other, and this is a referendum, are we going to have a Europe of modern states tomorrow or are we going to have a new Yugoslavia? Are we going to vote again for the coalition that is ruling the European Parliament, which is the crackling of the HDZ, the SDP Socialists, ALDE, that is the vote, the coalition in the European Parliament. Will you vote for Andrej Plenkovic, Mr Bernardic and Mrak Taritas, or will you vote for those who are for modern Europe, modern states, decide. The vote for any of these three options is a vote for the same option, as they have been in the coalition in the European Parliament for 5 years. That a colleague of Picula and a colleague of Shuica cooperate and vote together. This is what Croatian citizens need to know. And finally, I have to say here, too, one very important thing, which is that today, unfortunately, a large part of the Croatian National Corps has been evicted, that it is not in the country, that it is abroad. Some even left '45. I'll be in '70. A year and some of this in the 21st century. You who went outside because you didn't feel well here, but not your fault, but the guilt of the people who ruled your country, our country. Go to the election. By May 15, you can all register, you can by email, use your right, go to a consulate, diplomatic representations around the world, use your right. So, in the office of the state administration or in consular diplomatic representations, anywhere in the world, go out and vote. And vote for those who are for modern Europe, for modern Croatia, not for the new Yugoslavia, because I repeat, this is a referendum, which is a key referendum for the future of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139073	We are going to the 8th position of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139074	I thought I'd have a slightly different speech today but I'm listening to this Mr. Milorad who forgot what Stanimirovic wrote and spoke in occupied Vukovar. Among other things, just on the day of Vukovar's fall in '91. In the year he said when the Vukovar hospital fell, the last Ustasha Bastion in Vukovar fell. And he was also the occupation mayor of the construction of Vukovar. So in the service of the Chetnic High-Serb Aggressor Policy. And that's what our Milorad forgot. And his eyes are full of tears when he talks about Jasenovac and when he talks about Vukovar and the relativation of the crime then he dares here from this pay phone in the Croatian Parliament to relativize the Homeland War. And I've mentioned it before, and yet today I'm going to point out that Mr. Milorad Pupovac has never spoken those two words of the Homeland War in his life. Don't you dare admit it. And he's talking about hate land. Here happened a few days ago in Brač one incident that we all need to condemn, everyone and a colleague used to say, there are no blood cells in the violence, they don't count, I agree. Last year there were 1624 crimes against life and body, 1624 and the whole of Croatia is talking about one because two Serbs and three Croats were involved in the incident on the one hand. And everyone's talking about it. And these others are being neglected, these 1623 are being ignored. And here she tries to Satanize that cheerleading subculture. Who are the fans? It's those guys who are 13.5.90. They said loudly and clearly in Maksimir here in Zagreb "NE", "NE Yugoslavia", "NO Great Serbia" and "NE Arkan" which was then in Zagreb. And today they're a problem in society. Is the problem because the only ones marked Kate Šoljic's death was the mother who gave 4 sons for the Croatian homeland. Is it because every year they mark the hero of the Blessed Zadar? Is it because they went to Vukovar and said no to the birth of a new Chetnik movement in the city? Is it because they're marking the fall of Vukovar? Is it because the only people in Croatia sing patriotic songs? Maybe that's exactly why they're guilty. Because if there were no cheerleaders' subculture, if there weren't no patriots' fans, they wouldn't be singing, nowhere in Croatia, unfortunately. No one is talking about violence in Roma settlements where we have 47 conducts on average daily in Međimurje County. No one's talking about violence and shootings in folk clubs but when there's some violence involved and members of the cheerleading group who should be convicted and I always condemn him, every violence, then we'll have 20 shows on HRT dedicated to this violence. And what about the other 1623 events of that kind? We forgot that, that's not what we're talking about. We're not talking about 20 murders a year in Croatia. But we'll talk about one broken nose for 1,000 years. That's enough. And enough is Milorad Pupovac and his way of carrying out a bad policy here in the Croatian Parliament and Croatia is not a hate country. The only one that spreads hate in Croatia is him because he will never bow down to the victim of Vukovar and precisely relativizing what Vojislav Stanimirovic was doing, he will deny the Homeland War, make it clear that his colleague Stanimirović was an occupation mayor in the town of Vukovar, an occupyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139075	We are now going to the 5th debate, an independent representative of the respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139076	There's been some important information under the radar these days. On July 4th, perhaps a symbolic date when one of the world's largest nations, it is about America, celebrates Independence Day, Croatia sent an official letter to be slightly less independent, to be slightly less sovereign. And this is about the official meaning of the intention of entering the European ERM2 Course Mechanism. So that letter was sent by the Croatian Ministry of Finance. And it's a prerequisite for entering the Eurozone. What has happened many times so far, without a quality public debate, without the issue being discussed in the Croatian Parliament, the ministry, or the government, has decided that Croatia will enter the Eurozone. The reason for the Eurozon entry is that they justify a better standard, and we will live better when we have euro instead of kuna. However, all objective analyses suggest that all countries that entered the Eurozone have stagnated economically, or the standard has fallen. And then the question arises why does Croatia want to introduce the euro in the first place. The reason is simple and not economic. The issue is that Croatia will, with this euro, be in EU growth a little more than it is today. Or perhaps to make it clearer to you, which you think the UK could leave the EU, whether it could happen to Brexit that the UK introduced the euro. I'll tell you no, you couldn't. Just by keeping Britain's British pound, it has made it possible to do what is happening today, it has made it possible for the UK to leave the EU. And this way I call on all the institutions of the Croatian state, and in particular I call on our President, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who remained deaf and dumb about the Istanbul Convention, who remained deaf and dumb about the Marrakech Agreement and the migrant crisis, to make his views clear this time about the introduction of the euro, to say what he thinks. Or maybe in a few months for the purpose of the campaign, he'll come to his senses and say, "Well, maybe we should think about it." Maybe the euro isn't right for us. So this way from the highest House of the Croatian Parliament I call on the president to courageously state his view of the euro, he says his position on the loss of sovereignty and this way. Let her not be silent as she was silent about the Istanbul Convention, in fact, she was not silent, we ourselves know that she supported the Istanbul Convention. Let her not be silent as she kept quiet about the Marrakesh Agreement and she tried to deceive the Croatian public with her not going to Marrakesh and she actually supported it. And what wonders when at the last minute our president decided not to go to high office in the NATO Pact at all? What wonders in Croatia when the prime minister also hoped until a few days ago to leave Croatia as well as 300 thousand Croatian citizens and hoped for a high post in the EU, particularly in the European Commission. Well, I think, in fact, our Prime Minister Plenkovic and Colinda Grabar Kitarovic can no longer surprise us. And what's key here is to say, we're actually always talking about this game of SDP and HDZ. I am pleased that today, everyone knows that HDZ and SDP are, more specifically, Plenkovic and Milanovic coalitions in the European Parliament. And that's what the Prime Minister has recently admitted. And he said out loud, so the Socialists and the cracks are the coalition. And they're preparing that same coalition here, the same coalition is being prepared in Croatia, which is actually agreed. I will ask one question to all those watching this session, let them tell them whether there is one difference in the politics of Zoran Milanovic, Andrej Plenkovic and Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, I will say there is no. It is the same policy that is economically viewed solely towards the EU, the interests of the EU rather than the Croatian interest. And when we talk about sovereignty neglects the sovereignty of our country, it ignores all attributes of sovereignty and our Croatian Kuna. While Croatian sovereigns are on the Croatian political scene, and they will be there for a very long time, we will defend the Croatian kuna, or we will not let it go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139077	Now it's the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU, the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139078	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, after these speeches, I should actually just say, uh, I as someone who liberals, I think everyone has the right to say what they think, that we have to be different, we have to be different and think, but to be offended doesn't need to be, not to create some new coins that will cause a dispute, and I don't know how our fellow citizens who live in Lica will feel after what my colleague Glasovic said before me, really something inadmissible, but always more when someone talks, talks about who talks, than what he says. So, really, I can only say one deep uh and say all kinds of things we'll obviously hear and we'll hear from this pay phone. But I will return to what was my theme and I want it to be the subject of this free speech, and the subject is the referendum. It says that the referendum is a form of direct decision-making, a statement by citizens on some issues of importance to the narrow or wider community. Then when you enter what the word referendum comes from, it comes from the Latin word "refe", which means an undecided fight or game, and the referendum should be solved, a fight or a game. The referendum, we have one that is ongoing, is still four or five days and shows the reality that is in the Republic of Croatia. If HDZ and the church want the referendum to pass, then there will be a chance to collect signatures in front of the church, not to say in church rooms if it suits certain political purposes, then there is no problem, and if the referendum is not to pass, then it is to be feared by citizens, disinformation, videos are funded for which no one understands why they are funded because they have nothing to do with pension reform, but it has to do with the message being citizens, don't go and don't sign for that referendum. So everyone has the right to go and say that, I am for referendum 67 is too much or can say no, I am not or can say I will sign because I want citizens to say something about it. Of course, when it comes to pension reform that it is not about reform, it is about being defined that no matter who can or can't work until 67. It works, we in GLAS generally think that those who can and occupations that can be done above 65 do, but equally, not all occupations are like that. On the agenda of this HS, now there are two points that talk about encouraging housing building or subsidizing credit and everyone who knows something about it knows there's no way that you on a baustel or a construction platform are going to let a worker do a facade that is 66 or 67 years old. Because there's got to be another one with him who's going to watch him, you know it's a profession where you can't work until 67, that colourful lie, that those who are 41 years old. The internship can go before, we know that the Republic of Croatia is the country where most people work on a specific. So we think that those who can work that, but not legally prescribe who, that everyone has to work up to 67, we can only expect that maybe the law is prescribed as long as men can live and until they can live women. But there's one question that never opens, and it's a matter of pensions by special regulations, so a little when you see how many pensions there are, when you see how much money they're given for them, that's the question when it's not opened. When he was a minister or secretary of state to defend the so-called Retirement reform, then I asked what was going on, then I was told it wasn't a topic now, and it's never a topic, and we know that in the 1990s because of the economic problem, a terrible lot of working-age people went into retirement. Finally, the application to the ruling structures, do not defend people from pleading, there is no right for someone to determine when the referendum answers, and when the referendum does not respond, the referendum is a direct form of decision-making and plea to citizens on certain issues, so let the citizens know what they think about pension reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139079	We move on to the next presentation of the position, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Honored colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139080	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, so today on the day of Europe, I present to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia one proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, or I do what Mr. Pavić promised and promises from 9 months last year, and this is because of the indexation of pensions where thousands of pensioners lost their right in one month due to an increase in pension by 10 or 15 or 5 kuna, he lost the right to be available to health care and only one fact because they have very modest incomes, or those who live as singles, this first censorship has passed by a member of the family. This is not a law that solves and helps about 250,000 people, these are not just pensioners, but also citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those with small incomes and especially those with multiple families. I note, I have already talked about this 10 times, the price for the exemption from the payment of supplementary health insurance, or that the state pays for the poor and the elderly has not changed since 2004, therefore, at the full age of 15. Meanwhile, the average salary increased by 41%, so from 2012 to today, more than 270 000 people in the Republic of Croatia were mostly retired from supplementary health insurance paid by the state. For this reason, because the resolution minister has done nothing all this time, and he has promised, he has taken time or declared that in agreement with Minister Kujundzic, it will be settled, and I know that without Minister Maric, it will not work out because additional budget cuts are also required. Because of everything that hasn't been done, we're proposing an increase in this censorship by 20.6% and exactly half of the salary growth in the last 15 years. and census would be 2 thousand, excuse me, 1,830,00 kn per member of the family, i.e. 2,340,00 kn when a person lives as a single person, and that is exactly something more than the poverty limit of the Republic of Croatia. We also suggest that this census is adjusted annually also with 50% increase in the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. Why is this so important? Well, look, 15. It did not change the fact in which someone who lives 2,000.00 km of retirement has to pay, and it exceeds that price of 1,939,00 kn, must pay 840,00 kn of supplementary health insurance and if, if, this is the right to health and another 960,00 kn of RTV subscription, and this is the right to inform him that he knows what is going on around him and in that case, that person who lives alone no longer has 12 pensions, but has 11 pensions and 200,00 kn because only these two charges cost a person with such low incomes 1.800,00 kn. It is the same with two people if they live together with 3.000,00 kn with one pension, it happens that one, now they are freed of payments, happens to one die, and now the one who receives the remaining 2,100,00 kn, is now rich, so, besides all the obligations that remain on him on the 2,100,00 kn, still has an additional charge of € 840,00. So, this law for Europe's day is a contribution to the fight against poverty in the Republic of Croatia and to the benefit of the availability of healthcare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139081	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139082	We're going to the sixth debate of a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139083	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, here is a campaign for the European Parliament behind us, we have chosen our 12 representatives to represent the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the European Parliament and there is one topic which in the main EU countries has been the subject of these elections, and we have not been mentioned, these are climate change. And I will use these few minutes to warn this fact and it has really come to 5 to 12 to position Croatia here as a country. The fact that climate change is no need for me to assure you, when you came to work at the end of May, you came on a rainy day in a balloon, so that's the fact, that's what everyone is talking about, the only one who doesn't admit is Mr Trump, the whole world admits. Through the entire European elections campaign, the main countries have indeed led the debates on climate change and how to adapt and what to do. Likewise now that the choice for certain functions you see is one of the main topics that talks about climate change. That's not what we're talking about in Croatia. Croatia must decide in this next 5-year term whether it will be a player in the EU institutions as a parliament who will actively participate in a number of things or be an observer. He can be an observer, sit on the bench and see how the game develops or be a player in that game. Climate change when it comes to Croatia and strategies, you can deal with it in 2 ways, you can deal with sectoral issues and you can actually deal with it integratedly. Sectorally, each sector does its own strategy, does its own story, and then everyone in their niche will deal with it or deal with it integratedly, the time has come for us to deal with it integratedly. The Ministry of Environment and Energy is in charge of certain strategies, and these strategies are sitting or sitting in certain drawers, something is going into public debate, but we don't have one excessive strategy. The excessive strategy is necessary, it is necessary because it provides an answer to a number of things. So it answers how to adapt agriculture to new conditions, responds to how to adapt energy to new conditions, gives an answer which are new interests that will develop in this century that will answer that question, so you have a series of things. When you talk about youth employment, when you talk about education at all, then you need to take care of what new professions these are, what new topics are, we are not talking about. When this campaign tried to open up the topic of climate change, of course it was not a subject that, not to use any rougher word, interested anyone, but that is a fact, we must now have the strategy, we now need to know that in terms of the use of renewable energy sources related to energy independence with the definition of infrastructure, with the development of a railway that needs to go heavy traffic, not roads and of course what is crucial, and these are what interests will be that will be by the end of this century? We don't have an answer for that. So, the campaign is over, it goes on, we will, in this HS of course, talk about different topics, I must admit that I will take every opportunity to talk about this topic of climate change for the simple reason that this century, the century where Europe has to give some answers and we in the Republic and our MPs just have to decide whether we really want to be real players in this big field or in 5 years. be some new election, and we'll all be sorry again, and it'll be all our fault. You should never look for guilt in someone else, you should always look for guilt in yourself. So if they really don't do both MPs and us as a country and all those who need to do a good job, for 5 years. Some will be somewhere further, and the Republic of Croatia will be at the very bottom of things, and I think it's just not good, it's not good for this country, and it's not good that we're just keeping track of the numbers of people who are leaving because if that's the case, people will go and look for their luck somewhere else, not in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139084	Thank you. We've come to an end with a speech on our clubs, and just before we start on the agenda, tomorrow's notice, so tomorrow's HS day, so we're working from 9.30 to about 12.45. At 13 o'clock would then be a solemn reception where in these rooms we would gather a little bit and congratulate, of course, on behalf of all of us and the citizens of the day HS. Then we'd keep working at 3:00 if there was a free speech on the clubs and still work on the agenda points, that's it, so now we're going to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139085	Representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will present the position of Club GLAS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139086	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. For the past 10 days in our public space, we've had different topics and just when we thought we got rid of black swans, we have one more very, I'd say an untasteful debate within a coalition that is a clienteleist, commercial chip coalition, where the topics are textbooks. But what a surprise when you're many years old, then you don't have to be surprised, and it makes sense that it's all happening because it's not the end, it's going to be very interesting after the rainy period, we have a sunny period, so it's going to be very interesting to see what it is and what it is, what kind of relationships are they. But my theme of why I answered this free speech on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU is not what I said. It's June 5th. International World Environment Day. We completely forgot about that under the motto Fight against air pollution. So, under the idea that we're dealing with black swans, now we're dealing with one coalition partner seeking the resignation of the minister from the resort, then that another coalition partner is calling all ministers, we've completely forgotten this. I often get the feeling that we live, you know, when you take the sand in your hand and raise your hand and your sand leaks. That's how we live. And I'm asking you any of us, if he's taken care of at all, so from the MPs, to help in the context of environmental protection at all, therefore, the point is to fight air pollution and the whole debate is about 3 subjects. One topic is transport, the other is energy and the third is waste. Did we today, when we came to this assembly, use, say, public transportation or do we come on foot? We didn't. Did we take care of the use of energy, to run a little bit, it went hot, we all set up air conditioning, and we don't have any problem with that. So, the third topic, when you were coming to this hall, when you were passing the City of Zagreb, see what the waste looks like in the City of Zagreb. That's our picture. When it comes to protecting the environment, when it comes to the world's day, it's not a long process. The World Environment Day was established in 72, so it wasn't somewhere else and says that a person can do something with his daily actions. And as we deal with children's textbooks, so they're always the weakest in the system, we always find that topic the most interesting, this kind of passes under our radar. And we all have to wonder together what kind of country we're going to be and what kind of environment we're going to leave to our children and grandchildren because we treat it irresponsiblely. And there is much greater responsibility on us to the parliamentary representatives. By example, we should show by our conduct how these small changes can affect and can mean. So let's try somehow, at least in the smaller part, to draw attention to all of this that fills the media space, look at the front pages of the newspaper and try through the debate on laws, through our daily actions to see what our responsibility is. So climate change is facts. Climate change and the impact on this planet have left behind a human being, and on several occasions there have also been conversations about cutting down forests. Every memory of the forest leaves some consequence, but on World Environment Day, it would be good if we didn't use taxis from this assembly when we go home, use public transportation, or walk away. It would be good to come home and see the waste that we've produced, and the statistics say that each of us daily produces kilos of waste, try to sort it out a little bit, try to treat this waste responsibly, and leave the topic of black swans for one party, and that this debate in the context of this very interesting coalition solve it in four walls for Croatia's future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139087	We're going to the last debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139088	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. If you're patient enough, then you can speak last on behalf of the club. You just have to be well patient, wait to get ahead of everyone and then have a chance to speak last. That was me, my intention was to really show that someone else could be the last, except for my colleagues, Bačić, who we also have free speech in different ways. Someone is experiencing free speech in a way that says what is holding him back, which was currently on the political scene, and someone is experiencing free speech in a way that analyzes everything that was said before. In my free speech I will not mention in any word the Water Act, that is the next point, that is, we will have a united debate, as things stand, and that is quite enough time and space and opportunities, which through replicas, which through speaking on behalf of clubs or individual debates will say what I think about these laws. But I'm gonna use this minute for another situation. In a decent country, in a country of decent liberal democracies, if there are problems among coalition partners, then coalition partners sit at the table and don't leave that room until they agree. Or if it takes them 15 days, a month, they sit down and negotiate. We now have the case, Mr. Bandic, HNS and HDZ are coalition partners, not everyone else will be offended for not listing them. Mr. Bandic, with his chips on the media, is blackmailing his coalition partners. He's blackmailing them for two facts. On one fact there are textbooks for schools, and another fact is the safety of Zagreb bridges. Both are very sensitive. School textbooks, so there's no one in this hall who doesn't think we should lead about the future of our children, that we should get quality textbooks and then use really these most sensitive groups, are used to blackmail children. And other topics are your Zagreb bridges. We wait for some of these bridges to make a hole, someone goes down and kills himself. Mr. Bandic neatly through the media, I was least called to defend the ministers he calls, but these ministers are ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia. These are ministers, ministers who are HDZ coalition partners. The HDZ dead-cold observes Mr Bandic speaking for one minister, which speaks for the other minister, and then something that we have spoken from this pay phone and several times has returned to you the same moment. Zagreb Bridges, if you want to solve the problem, then the government should sit down, the resolution minister should sit down and vice presidents who should sit down and should therefore sit down and state inspector. What does the State Inspector say to the Minister of Resort? Until recently, that same inspection was in the Department of Construction, telling the minister when a small two comes in line, sit down and go there and like when it comes to order, then we'll take care of it. It's HDZ's responsibility, you're a senior party, it's your responsibility. When we talk about young people leaving Croatia, they leave, among other things, because of what their colleagues have been saying and tomorrow there will certainly be one good point at which you can talk about Croatia's safety, if you say a little differently, someone can slap you, beat you or use your head. It's gonna be a topic and we need to talk about it tomorrow. But the responsibility of the HDZ is that this government works, the responsibility of the HDZ is not to fill the pages, the front page of the newspaper, and then you have in the below how Mr Bandic with his chips a little attack one, a little attack the other. Next is some HDZ quota minister, he'll be attacked. Why? Well, because he can. Therefore, when you get the ability to manage a country as a headquarters party, then you get the ability to manage rather than rule. When you put your problems under the carpet, Mr. Bandic will be too big for you and fall on your nose. I'm not worried that you're going to fall on your nose, I'm worried that it's not good for this country and I'm worried that it's another reason that young people are leaving this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139089	Let's move on, dear colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139090	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Politics is a very interesting activity. In politics and what seems impossible to people is possible. Different arrangements are being made, different coalitions are being made. So there's this long-standing relationship that was a little secret so it was a little public, so they kind of loved each other in secret, so they kind of liked each other publicly like two pubertys, and at one point they really decided that the relationship would be legalized, it's a link between HDZ and Mr. Bandic. It is a system of joint vessels, meaning one stable coalition of HDZ and Mr Bandic in the City Assembly and a stable link between HDZ and Mr Bandic in this esteemed home, so in the Croatian Parliament. And while Mr Bandic decided to build fountains around Zagreb, it was so convenient and interesting for everyone regardless of the money he spent, let's say for fountains that were made there in the Croatian Brethren Community, someone else built a school for 120 students along with the hall, but that's why the city of Zagreb has fountains. But look at the devil, Mr. Bandic gave up the fountain and decided to build skyscrapers. It came to him, so everyone has a fetish, you know someone likes a good bag, someone likes a nice suit, someone likes a nice tie, and Mr. Bandic I thought he had a fetish on fountains, but no, Mr. Bandic's new fetish is skyscrapers. And there is no problem in making fun of the laws, making fun of this House, in the end he makes fun of his fellow MPs, who calls them tokens, to make fun of the citizens of the city of Zagreb. Namely, the general urban plan will be in the City Assembly if exactly what we have an announcement out there on the 12th is about the end of the session of the Croatian Parliament, about that date, I don't doubt, I have too many years to be naive, you know the power of the hand is the power of the hand. Of the 51 MPs in the City Assembly, 26 MPs will raise their hands and make it possible for a space that is up until recently which is also in the public debate when it was a green zone. Moreover, it is said that to edit this space, I am talking about the Hippodrom, before that should be a special landscape study of nature protection in that area absolutely and for public debates and for everything that is in the documents that we have received and the documentation that we have received will be possible to do, say, a 100-metre skyscraper. But not only there, there are three, four locations in Zagreb where he is dead, cold after a public debate he re-scheduled, or a different solution is in the plan than it was in the public debate. What's a public debate? Public debate is where citizens can come, where citizens can see and citizens can make their remarks. Mr Bandic manages the city without respecting the laws, manages the city without even respecting the laws for which his chips have raised their hand and voted, he does not respect the citizens of the city of Zagreb because beyond their will he will plan in Zagreb what seems convenient to him at that time. And as long as the fetish were fountains it could somehow be tolerated but now that the fetish skyscrapers it will not only be a lasting consequence in the city of Zagreb and for this responsibility together with Mr Bandic bears HDZ. The spatial plan that will be adopted will not be signed by Mr Bandic, will be signed by the president of the City Assembly, who is a HDZ member. Therefore, this one link that has been hidden so far, which has been a secret absolutely public connection and responsibility for the permanent devastation of the city of Zagreb, for what will happen in the city of Zagreb, and unfortunately for me, I would unfortunately like to be denied but very rarely deny that responsibility for the devastion in the city of Zagreb is greater than the responsibility of the Bandic, who does what he wants as a bad child, that responsibility is borne by HDZ. When you raise your hand in the City Assembly, colleagues from HDZ will sign Amendments and additions to the general urban plan will sign the death of a spacious, polite development of the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139091	Thank you. We're going to the last debate, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139093	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that colleague Makar has launched this debate here on responsibility, political responsibility, but I would not be talking about the political responsibility we see in the daily press because this political responsibility, in general, can be sanctioned by the institutions of the system. I would talk about that other responsibility, responsibility for harming the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for inaction. How else to interpret that the Polish Duchy of Warsaw has been installing elevators for 1.5 years on the basis of initiatives launched by our Europarliamentaries and we have got the green light that we are doing so, and our Ministry of European Funds and regional development is unable to change the Operational Plan and is not showing up to the public, and 50,000 of our citizens are blocked in their apartments, so with limited movement. Does anyone here account for the damage to those citizens for their indemnity? Is someone counting the damages to citizens who now have to pay 840 kunas because we don't have a harmonisation of the censors for supplementary health insurance and the state harms, savings on the poorest. Now, the next month, more than ten thousand people will lose additional health insurance because their limit will be exceeded due to an increase of 3.17% of the lowest pensions, which will be exceeded by 10, 20, 30 kuna on the name of 50 kuna this or this 300 kuna per year will lose 840 kuna because they will have to pay for additional health insurance or do not give God no pay and fear that they will not end up, that they will not end up in hospital. I want to talk about this kind of responsibility for this speaker, and I would like to remind again that Minister Pavic promised public Croatian citizens last September that he would solve the problem along with Minister Kujundzic. There will be a new September soon, and this will not be settled. I want to help both the Government and the Minister, Minister Pavić because I have referred to the parliamentary procedure of the law and the mechanism to which these censors are corrected to protect those who are in the zone, citizens in the poverty zone, with small incomes less than 1,830, such a proposal for income per member of the kuna family, income per family member or less than 2,340,00 kn if the person lives as single. It's somewhere on the poverty line, we haven't pre-named anything, but it's worth the efforts and budgets of this country to protect its citizens and we estimate that there are more than 230 thousand. I want to talk about the government's responsibility. Why didn't she pass the Oil Man Act, Lex Oilman? Why didn't she bring it? She could control every position, every minute, every event could control. Obviously, it's considered incompetent to be able to run such processes, obviously there's no big profit here that consultants can earn, but the damage is huge. Gentlemen, 200 tons of crane when it was obtained was worth hundreds of millions of kunas, its maintenance cost, it is still after 40 years. worth millions of kuna, in bankruptcy is worth a kilo of cut iron reduced for labour costs. Gentlemen, we are destroying the property of this state and it does so by its inaction with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You can say whatever you want, what... Whatever you want about the subsidies in shipbuilding, neither have the media brought the truth, nor have we debated as men to establish what the money went for, but We have condemned them in advance and destroyed them, I am bitter. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139094	We are now going to the 4th debate of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club esteemed colleague Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139095	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will use my free speech to show how Mr. Lovro Kuščević was doing in Nerežić in a small way how beautifully it is done in the city of Zagreb. The third year of architecture studies you get an object called spatial planning and a professor at the opening lecture of the subject says spatial planning is about politics. As an architecture student, I think about what this man is talking about. But in reality, you can see that what the profession says, that what people who deal with spatial planning say doesn't matter, is what politics decides. Naim, tomorrow is the sixth item of the agenda in the City Assembly of the City of Zagreb GUP of Zagreb changes and additions. At this point I'm just going to have a little bit about the formal part, a little bit about the content, then I'm going to show you two graphics that will tell you everything. The formal part, at this time, of what we know that the GUP is not in line with the spatial plan of the city of Zagreb, which according to the law should be. What we know at this time that the public debate was in 2017 that behind the public debate which was held in 2017 was a series of different changes and that without a public debate according to the wishes of certain, tomorrow the GUP is in the town hall. What we know at this time is that the Committee on the Constitution, the legality of the City Assembly, has decided that the proposal by the GUP is in accordance with the law, although it is not because at this point there is no agreement or resolution of the Ministry, there is no agreement of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so at this point it is not what they have decided. What's content in the GUP is that it's made in accordance with the provisions of the law that, now I'm not bothering you and I'm not being too professional, the law says that when you break the obligation to create an urban planning plan in that space you have to plan everything in a way that people can get allowed. In the city of Zagreb, 18 urban planning arrangements were abolished without being defined in the way that it should be so that people can get the permits because they will obviously get it. Similarly, GUP has one provision that says that where the mayor declares the city project is not worth the rules of the game, it does not apply the rules of the game that apply to the other citizens but only to those who have taken pleasure in the mayor of Zagreb and so that you actually have two types of citizens, some to whom the GUP applies and some to whom when it is declared that the city project will then agree with the mayor what and how it should be. Mayor Bandic has been trying to put the general urban plan together since 2001. He tried to do it in different ways, he introduced... A mistake that is absolutely in a way that he's made against the law, it's even the courts have passed a word about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what is behind him today shows that all the dams have broken, that there is no more defense, that in Zagreb there can be anything. So the procedure is illegal, it's content against the provisions of the law, it's content to do whatever it takes, but it has a coalition partner who'll give it everything. And the highlight of everything is amendments. Namely, I was the last one last night, somewhere around 10 I looked at the last amendments that came and the amendments were telling you more than 1,000 words. In the city of Zagreb, all the dams, all the decency, all the profession is bowed down because the mayor Bandic, along with his coalition partner HDZ, can do anything. The amendment that HDZ gave you, when you come to the Parliament on the Star on the right is your green surface where you go to Miroga. This green area has been green since the town of Zagreb has GUP. The HDZ amendment is that this green area is re-purposed to M1. This is the amendment that came last night and then in return, Mr. Bandic, so HDZ gave 11 amendments, Mr. Bandic's party last night until 10:00, so at this point there are 27 in return, then Mr. Milan Bandic's party is turning greenery into an apartment, greenery is being rescheduled, just as here some 15 acres into a flat. I think when Mr Kuščević sees it all then he will wonder what I was doing, I should have come to Zagreb, in Zagreb he can do anything. My men need to raise our voice against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139096	Thank you. It is now up to the club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives of the respected colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139146	... about May month of sorrow and pride. [[Specially enabled.]] Why the grief? Why pride? May the month is where Borovo Selo happened, where our people were killed in Bleiburg, where Slavonia Bledkoski was released, that's our pride. I'm going to talk about an organization in Borovo Sela that I was present in the other day. Of course, we're not invited, I'm asking in public here why not all parliamentary representatives are not invited to Borovo Selo? It refers to the local structure of the people that I've never been invited in this organization. It's not about me, it's about the Borov Sela defenders, it's about the people who were involved, who were injured, who were never invited, I wonder why it hit me, why those people who were sitting there, when they were captured, when they were wounded in Borovo Selo, when they were badly killed, these 12 of our young lives, were shot in the back by the Chetniks with the JNA. Today, no one invites these people to be worse when I hear they were organized a few years ago where they were on the streets to get the gentlemen through. I wonder what's going on? The monument itself that was supposed to be where they were killed was not placed but moved something a little more. It hurts me as an agent, it bothers me, until we're going to be hiding some crimes and trying to forget. To be even more absurd, the next day in Vukovar he was president and president, of course certain MPs were not called. We're going to take the wreaths to the memorial center. I wonder why. Is it just us that when you need us, if we're people, but that's what I'm saying about local powers, it turns out that way. I'm not a remote, I'm not a man who wants to be run by someone, I have my own opinion and my own reasons. Unfortunately if the prime minister came, of course we should have been there with them together. ... He probably came... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're asking why they're out-of-date crimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hear old age, people are dead. Is someone protecting them? Why do young Croatians leave, why do we no longer have workers? We can't find them. We're gonna close our firms because there's no one to work with. Looks like no one's to blame. If we keep acting the way we've acted so far, there won't be anyone here, there won't be a company, there won't be any need. Imagine this case when Serbs came out of Croatia if the Croats had waited for the same Serbs and called them Chetniks and killed Slavonian forests, it would have been a big, big crime, thank God it didn't and thank God it didn't happen. So our men to Bleiburg went out without recognising that authority, they also killed and said they were Ustasha. We could also call the Chetniks and kill and then say it's not a crime like he's trying them and on the left, it justifies Bleiburg that it's a crime. When do you talk about the truth? When do you bring the truth to place once? I'm not the only man, this government has done a lot of work, I'm talking about the economy, I'm giving them support in that work. No government has ever done what this government has done in 30 years, but local powers, local certain people have to recognise and respect institutions and especially defenders and those who have suffered both Borova and those who have not recognised today, this is the most important thing and this economy that is going in the right direction today, I support and thank you for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139147	Representative Rezimir Varda will speak on behalf of the Labour Party's Representatives' Club and the solidarity of independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139148	My colleagues and colleagues, the theme is the resignation of Minister Blaženka Divjak. The reason for this request for the resignation of Minister Blaženka Divjak is neither a curricular reform which the profession speaks to critically nor methodical manuals for the School of Life, nor the purchase of pills, nor the fact that the Agency for Education and Education as a key institution for ensuring the quality of work in educational institutions has been operating for several months without a director and, at the same time, the agency and its advisers, which, instead of the agency and its advisors for certain teaching subjects, has created a parallel system with the help of so-called “the Agency”. professional working groups and private schools, and at the level of fees for these services, I don't even speak. The occasion was, in fact, a letter from the minister of 16.5. to primary schools informing them that the resources of the state budget are supplied exclusively to the textbooks of mandatory subjects. After being a member of the Club on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, I warned that such an attitude by the Ministers acted contrary to the Law on textbooks and after the Prime Minister said that election course textbooks were also financed by the resources of the State budget, which is in line with the Law on textbooks, we expected that the minister would at least apologize to the public, primary school staff and the parents of those students. In no word has the minister ever admitted that such a letter is illegal, and from the phonogram of the session when we passed the Law on textbooks, I pulled out statements from the government's representative, so her assistant, who accepts and complements the amendment of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives on so-called. free students in such a way that they are provided in a statement by the Government representative with the means of obtaining students for all subjects other than objects with a largely educational component, which are visual, musical, technical, physical and health culture. I repeat the truth that the government has noticed the failure of the ministers, but I repeat, it has not yet shown that it is aware of its illegal conduct, nor has at least apologized for breaking the law, but directly or indirectly makes statements at the expense of the Labour and Solidarity Party as a parliamentary party which is below any level of communication with one parliamentary party. I expect the resignation of Minister Blaženka Divjak because no minister is allowed to violate the law passed by this assembly and thus disturb the public or Mrs. Minister keeps the famous flossula that the law should not be held as a drunken vessel. That's not to be tolerated and it can't be tolerated. I firmly reject all speculation that the Labour and Solidarity Party or Milan Bandic is destroying Andrej Plenkovic and his government, pushing the HNS out of the government, looking for chairs, to participate in HDZ-based internal debates. We support the government and its projects but never a minister or minister who breaks the law. On the further steps available to the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club, the Club will adopt a final decision, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the Labour and Solidarity Club and the Independent Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139149	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party on behalf of which the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139150	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed colleague, my colleagues, for today's address with the aim of getting to know my colleagues and the media and the public about the announcement of a protest in Međimurje that has upset the entire Roma community. The Roma community is appalled by a protest announced in the town of Čakovec called "I want a normal life" aimed at Roma and which in the announcement points out that even among Roma there are honest and honest people. That protest will take place tomorrow at the central square in Čakovec. I am surprised that in our country, the contrary to the Law on Public Assembly, the provisions of the Penal Code, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, other laws and the Constitution, in particular by extracting posters that call for protest and to which the Roma stand out as a group against which they are protested by the flossule, and this does not apply to all Roma. Together with the Roma Union in the Republic of Croatia ‘Kali SARA’, I also initiated a gathering of Roma at the same location in the town of Čakovec on the second day with a message that Roma are equal citizens, and that individuals should not be called the entire Roma community, but the request was rejected by the town of Čakovec or the alliance is not authorised to use the public area for such a peaceful gathering. With the will of the town of Čakovec, we are forbidden to respond to generalization, calling and extreme discrimination, except that the organizer of the protest separates the Roma and negatively marks them. The town of Čakovec further sealed the process by sending a message that Roma should not be organised and sent to the public a message and a response to a meeting that they together with part of the chief and mayor of the Međimurje County support. We also wanted to warn against the disastrous living conditions of 60 segregated Roma... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139151	Comrade Pernar, don't interfere with my fellow Keatazi, please, by yelling from the bench, what kind of way is this?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139152	So he supports HNS, and the story against HNS, backs HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139153	Please don't yell from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139154	All over the country...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139155	It's a matter of home education and decency.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139156	...Roma settlements, across the country, and call on responsibility primarily for representatives of local self-government units who do not do enough to achieve positive shifts, but instead support the announced protest for their political purposes. This way I announce that as of today, the Roma community will increasingly use the right to a public gathering and in all major cities organise peaceful gatherings, exhibition photographs, public lectures and all the gatherings that the public will know about all the problems you mention about the gums under the carpet. Although their goal is not to hear our voice, this way I promise that it will become louder and more frequent. It is not appropriate to say that the two persons representing the main organisers of the protests are extremely right political worldsmen, and, above all, their performances on social networks are discriminatory and disturbing the Roma community. I call on all Međimurci and citizens of the town of Čakovec not to respond to such a gathering, but to direct their time and energy to representatives of local self-government who for years do not make enough for the Roma community to be educated, employed and directed in a positive direction. I also invite all citizens to cooperate with the Roma Alliance in the Republic of Croatia "Kali SARA" which, in cooperation with the Government and numerous institutions in dialogue with Roma representatives and citizens, solves all problems systematically and presents the Roma community and culture in the right light of parallel assistance to the most vulnerable and taking over the role of the institutions of local self-government, investing in social capital in the settlement, and lately also infrastructure. Speaking of problems, we cannot exclude and objectify the Roma community or predict the causes of the problem, and one of the main ones is that Međimurje County and the town of Čakovec, as well as the municipality of Pribislavec and many others do not coordinate activities, do not do and do not separate enough and have no vision of how to solve the problem from their own jurisdiction. I am sorry that the interest in the problems of the Roma community has not been so far, until certain problems begin to affect the majority of the population, while settlements, interest rates, lack of infrastructure, high... from education, social and health problems and all other dimensions of the problem were not a focus of clarity as they manifested themselves within segregated settlements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When local self-government units in local budgets provide for at least a percentage of the funds for Roma programmes, which will correspond to the share of Roma in the local population, these problems will certainly reduce. I would especially point out that units of local self-government do not implement recommendations that we make at national level, and even more importantly, do not allocate funds for the integration programme, for the work of Roma representatives and councils of the Roma national minority, and that unlike other parts of their units, Roma settlements are not infrastructured. If they do it in most cases, it's not nearly enough. Even though the Roma are not so far and did not use the right to publicly express dissatisfaction because of the current situation, the time has come for the Roma community to speak for itself. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u139157	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140757	So today on the agenda we have 5 points, I'm going to suggest we unite the debate by the first and the second and the third and the fourth. So the first and second points are the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, first reading and second, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement Building. Do any of the MPs object to these two points being linked to one debate? There isn't. Thank you. The third and fourth points are also half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2017 and the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2018. So they're even more connected. Do any of the MPs have any objection to a merger and a united debate? If not, thank you, then we'll start working now. So we're going into a united debate, in accordance with Article 247. Rules of Procedure, two points are the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, first reading, P.Z. No. 633; and second - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement Building, First Reading, P.Z. No. 634, the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 634 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. I would now ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us the esteemed Željko Uhlir, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140758	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs, Mr. President. The law on subsidisation of residential loans has been adopted for the purpose of encouraging the demographic renewal of society, urban regeneration of the settlement and the reduction of the emigration of young families. The law prescribes helping citizens resolve housing issues, buying an apartment or a house or building a house by subsidising housing loans. During 2017, half of the total amount of payments or annuities of loans in the first four years of payment for housing loans granted was subsidized for the state budget. In 2018, subsidisation was carried out in such a way as to pay part of monthly meals or annuities for the first 5 years, depending on the development index in which the city or municipality of the applicant’s residence is located on the day of publication of the public call. An application for subsidisation of residential loans shall be submitted by citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia who meet the conditions for obtaining a residential credit that determines a credit institution which is not older than 45 years of age and whose spouse or out-of-marriage partner or life partner owns only one apartment or house that sells for the purchase of a larger apartment or house or house because of the need for his own residence. In the event that a claimant or a member of his family household has a disability greater than 50% of the physical damage, the credit subsidisation period shall be extended by two years. In order to encourage demographic renewal, the time of the two-year subsidisation for each live birth, or adopted child, shall be further extended if that child is born or adopted during the loan subsidisation period. The implementation of the law shall be ensured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, and operational implementation of the law shall be in the jurisdiction of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. Early implementation of the law in 2017 approved 2315 applications and 2986 applications were granted in 2018, a total of 5301 requests over the past 2 years. For the subsidisation of loans for the purchase of an apartment or house, i.e. the construction of a house, the total amount of RH was secured by the subsidies in 2017 by 17,5 million, in 2018. 42 million kuna, with a projection for 2019 and 2020 of 35 million kuna. The basic issues to be proposed, which should be regulated by this law and proposed in this text, are that further subsidisation of loans is arranged for 1 year per child, a member of the household, the applicant, which at the time of the conclusion of the subsidisation contract has not been completed for 18 years. Accordingly, the second part of which is governed by this law is to comply with the definition of household according to the Social Care Act where households are considered to be a family or other community of persons living together in the cost of living regardless of everything else. After the publication of the 2018 ad on the termination of the application, citizens continued to show a significant interest in this form of assistance and the continuation of the law and proposed to adopt these amendments and to provide additional assistance to our citizens to address this important issue of life, that is, their housing issue The second law we have in common is the amendment of the Law on Social Encouragement. [[Intruder: Yes, yes, here you go.]] The law has been changed several times since 2001, then 4 years, so 7th, 9th, 12th, 13, 15th and 18th and up to now 8272 apartments have been built with the total investment value of 4 billion and 280 million kuna. At this moment the construction of 186 apartments in 4 cities, while in the preparation of locations in 14 cities and pre-cities are started on the next 20 cities in our country. According to data from the State Statistics Office on prices of sold apartments in 2018, the average price of apartment per meter per square metre in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which was achieved by the sellers of companies without encouraging housing, amounted to 11 800 kuna, which is 54% higher than the average price of the apartment under this programme. In addition, there has been an increase in labour prices, which has been constant since 2016 and is 2.5% year-on-year, and from 2017 to 2018. 8.3% labour prices are rising. Also in the previous implementation of the law and in the sales contracts, customers were not limited to the availability of apartments purchased under more favourable conditions than market conditions and individual abuses in the re-sale and rental of apartments were observed. In order to prevent such a phenomenon, it was necessary to legally disable earnings at an encouraging housing site. Furthermore, the provisions of the law allow for the production of dwellings for civil servants and public servants for the purpose of performing the service, but it was not clearly defined that there is a deficit in public services and that part should be further regulated and proposed by this amendment. Also, since the construction of official apartments where the needs for a smaller number of apartments are located, and the availability of habitable apartments and family houses is increased on the free market, due to unfavourable demographic movements in the Republic of Croatia, is not financially justified under the legal provisions and market prices are more acceptable and it is also necessary to comply with the existing provisions. Furthermore, the provisions of the law are made possible by means of specific programmes established by the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, with the prior consent of the Minister responsible for Construction, public funds to encourage the construction and sale of newly built apartments on the market in particular in the event of disturbances in the real estate market, etc. program post plus. The same is not included, however, apartments already in operation and available on the real estate market. The law on renting apartments, however, protected tenants as one of the options for resolving the housing issue allowed the right to buy first apartments in which the apartments and the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament required the application of the benefits of all programmes set out in the Law on Social Encouragement. Furthermore, these amendments to the law are implemented by harmonising interest rates on public funds for the purpose of implementing this law in relation to the average interest rate on housing loans on the capital market, and a change from 3% to 2% is proposed, i.e. a reduction in interest rates. The highest price of building land shall be determined when the APN or public institution obtains it from units of local self-government, in addition to the construction and purchase of apartments of a family house for the purpose of renting state deficits and align legal provisions with market developments in construction according to labour market prices and materials. For this reason, it is proposed to adopt those amendments and this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140759	I thank the secretary of state, so let's go to the replicas. The first is a colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140760	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You said this law was passed for demographic renewal. So here's to the Croatian public, can you tell us what the current price of the average square in the city of Zagreb is, therefore, current. And how can a young family who is employed at a certain time buy an apartment? And according to the State Statistics Institute, according to a report in March 2019, the Employment Service 55% of young people from 45 years of age are unemployed. So that these young families can buy an apartment in the city of Zagreb in the first place, given that they are employed for a certain period of time and that they are unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140761	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140762	Thank you very much. Well, every time we talk about these laws, we only talk about buying apartments. However, the Social Encouragement Act also allows renting apartments. So not everyone has to be a customer of the apartment but can enter into a lease and these are all different measures that different groups of citizens approve and assist in resolving the housing issue. Among other things, it's a rental, not just a buy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140763	Comrade Lipošak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140764	I thank the President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I welcome these amendments to the law and also the tendency of the law that primarily wants to help young families and actually facilitate their housing. And in your opening statement, you mentioned that just over 5300 requests have been realised since 2017. And if I'm not mistaken, all those who have made the right demands have actually earned the right to this measure. What I am interested in is whether we have the information that is the number of incomplete requests, or requests that have not been made further into the procedure, and do you think that the procedure itself is sufficiently clear and simple enough to be respected during the given period or period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140765	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140766	Well, thank you very much. We believe that the procedure is clear enough, that number relating to citizens who have failed to submit the correct documentation for... A dozen, so it's done in dozens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the number of thousands who have managed to please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140767	Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140768	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State Uhlir, I am interested in what the distribution depends on the index of development, so these are demographic measures and I welcome what Minister Štromar said is that the measures are adapted to the needs of citizens, so in this context we should also look at these changes and additions to the laws both in subsidized housing loans and in socially encouraged housing, so what distribution depends on the development index. And what I am extremely glad about about is these changes and additions to the second law, so where the deficit staff in public services can be supported in resolving housing issues, so there is an important unit of local self-government. And although the primary intensity was to take care of underdeveloped areas, I will mention here a specific situation with the city of Dubrovnik. Although it is a city with a good development index, it is a major problem with the deficit frame primarily for doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140769	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140770	Thank you very much. A detailed schedule, a detailed grading of co-financing depending on the development index is publicly published and is located except in the law and on our websites and it ranges from 31% for those most developed to 50% for those who are weakest developed according to the development index. As for the city of Dubrovnik, it is fully understood that the problem that has arisen there, regardless of what the city itself has developed, but there is a situation where the city of Dubrovnik itself enters the apartment, and then it can, it is expected that it also takes care of deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140771	Comrade Vard, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140772	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I am truly pleased that you adopted Article 2(2) of the proposal. What my colleague Lackovic and I specifically discussed in lawmaking is that, even for applicants, after the entry into force of the law, these loans are secured under favourable conditions if they have children up to 18 years of life. I think this fits into the demographic reconstruction of the country, and this will actually welcome these young families with more, more, more, more children that they had before the law itself came into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140773	Okay, no answer. My colleague, Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140774	Thank you very much, President HS. Dear Secretary of State, the amendment of the law when it comes to the Law on subsidisation of housing credits applies, among other things, to the fact that you went to define the concept of a family household or to comply with the definition of household and social care law. Since it is the Law on subsidisation of residential loans, which was adopted in 2017, therefore, at the time that the term was already defined by the Law on Social Care which was the reasons, which was now an important moment, that at the moment you were going to coordinate, it would be logical when the law was passed in 2017 that it was immediately in line with the concepts of other legislation, but you decided at this point because you did not explain it in more detail in your opening statement, so I ask you in the replica to explain what it was really about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140775	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140776	Thank you very much for asking. I'm just going to remind myself that just in the reasons for reading this opening part, I've stated that further subsidisation is being introduced for existing children. As soon as existing children are introduced, then it was a question of expanding the concept of household, family and different combinations that are possible to have with existing children and that is the basic reason why it has now gone to a broader definition than it was at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140777	Comrade Varg, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140778	Thank you, Mr. President HS. Comrade Secretary of State, my question is about discriminatory measures within the law that we are all aware that the funds are limited. Therefore, discriminatory measures must be introduced into age law, in terms of geographical position, as regards the development of the area where encouraging housing or residential lending is done, and my question is, what has partly touched on the issue and colleagues of Celic, related to the deficiting professions, in particular I ask for doctors and nurses who are prone to go abroad because the great jag for these professions is in Western and old Europe, and the drawing of the Croatian Fund of these professions can be directed in a positive direction, with positive housing and I call for these professions to be cited as measures that have priority in obtaining credit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140779	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140780	Thank you very much. So the whole idea of introducing these and parts of the amendments to the Law on Social Encouragement and the introduction of the concept of deficiting interest in public services, and as soon as we mentioned public services, then we are here in health, education, culture and science. Now, among them who are given priority, it would be very difficult, but there are, among these four groups, health workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140781	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140782	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I certainly support the adoption of the law, and it is good for the second reading to be adopted in order to start with this model of incentive or subsidisation. What might be good is that it's written differently in an explanation. Namely, this model started in 2011 and 2018. It has changed somewhat and the State guarantees have then been abolished, so it would be good to state in the reasons and in all respects of this model the fact that both before 2011 and 2012. sold around 2350 apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140783	Answer. There's no answer. Okay. Comrade Mikulić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140784	I thank the Honorable President HS. Dear Secretary of State, I absolutely support the initiative to give financial support to young people in the acquisition of their property, but given that we are in the amendments to the law, I am interested in when a new tender or new call can be expected, and whether you in the ministry have considered devising calls to make the call yourself last year, not just this month, or to spend all the funds available.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140785	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140786	Thank you very much. So the problem with constantly open or continuously open public calls is the problem with resources sources. On the other hand, all those who know that this law is passed and who expect to report and apply to this law will be familiar with the changes and changes of the law through these two readings, and they will be able to expect the opening of a public call already in September. So far it has also been seen that all those who were ready and were expecting to make this call, they have mostly entered, so there were no restrictions, but if it were a permanent, continuous, open call, then the question is again a limit of financial ones that would have to be somehow set.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140787	And the last replica of my colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140788	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Well, the respected secretary of state, in a world of such defetist news, always go through the good ones, those that are good go under the radar and through the employment measures of delegating maternity benefits and increasing the number of children's users, so this subsidisation of housing loans, I got a few questions, so here you can deny or confirm some of them. So, regarding the subsidisation of loans because the parents who receive a child during the duration of the subsidy loans or adopt it, the period of 2 years is extended, so for every child born or adopted, is the period of 2nd year, yes or no, that's what they're asking me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140789	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140790	We predicted that in the first row these changes are now credited to existing children in an extension of one year, for the newborn of 2nd year, it is already in the existing, existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140791	Thank you. This is what we used up the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Bernarda Topolko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140792	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly at the 28th session held on 24 April 2019, discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of residential loans, first reading, P.Z. the number 633, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 18 April 2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction discussed the above-mentioned act as the parent working body. Since 2017, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has initially provided information on 5,300 requests for subsidisation of housing loans or families that have been able to implement a grant for housing loans through this law and that some elements that can be further improved have been observed through this implementation. He pointed out that the amendment of the existing law refers to the additional subsidisation of loans for every small one, for each minor member of the household according to a special law at the time of the conclusion of the housing subsidisation contract for one year. Therefore, additional subsidisation of loans is arranged for one year per child per member of the household of the applicant, which at the time of completion of the subsidisation contract has not been completed by 18 years. It also harmonizes the concept of family household with the definition of concept, the concept of household according to the provisions of the Social Care Act. Finally, the proposer's representative referred to the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this law and stressed that projections of the financial cost and impact of this law were made and were also approved by the Ministry of Finance. The board member was interested in when a tender will be opened for 2019, how much funding is planned to subsidise the loan this year compared to last year, and did all those who submitted the request last year and received credit subsidies and will all those who submitted the request this year exercise the right to subsidise the loan? The applicant's representative announced the opening of a tender for September after the second reading of this bill and reported that all those who submitted the correct requests were able to implement the grant. After the debate, the committee voted unanimously 10 votes in favour, decided to postpone the Croatian Assembly to adopt the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans is hereby adopted. He also discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, the first reading of P.Z. at the 28th session held on 24 April 2019. No. 634, which was also delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to a representative of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 18 April 2019. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that this law is being amended for reasons of adapting to market conditions. He announced that these changes would enable deficit staff in public services to support the resolution of the housing issue, allowing for other than the construction and purchase of apartments or family homes for the purpose of renting state deficit public servants during the service. He stressed that this is primarily about health, education, science and culture workers. The proposal also stressed that the proposed law extends the possibility of a specific programme to help resolve the housing issue of citizens who buy apartments on the free market and provided the possibility of resolving the housing issue for protected tenants under the House Rental Act. The law also introduces a change in interest rates and reduces the interest rate on the market from 3% to 2% and changes certain provisions and is more precisely defined, for example. how the building land of local self-government units can be purchased, whose price cannot be higher than 25% of the Ethlon construction price or cannot be higher than the market value. The draft law defines more clearly the first and obligation to make available to POS flats, customer behaviour, APN, or public institutions and banks in case of sale or rental of apartments. The debate explained how to apply for subsidisation of housing loans. All of them, all of them, except those who filed for POS's flats. After the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement is hereby adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140793	Thank you, too. Now we move on to the debate, first in line is SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140794	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear secretary of state with co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues, today there are two laws that I can say are life-threatening, which are affecting the daily problems of Croatian citizens, and I personally welcome that this is the way that certain issues on the market, the real estate market, or the market for the functioning and construction of apartments and their financing. As already mentioned in recital (a) of this proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of Housing Loans, this proposal applies to the additional subsidisation of loans for each minor member of the household at the time of the conclusion of the subsidisation contract for a single year. Therefore, additional lending for one year per child is arranged, means a household member, who has not completed 18 years of subsidisation at the time of completion of the subsidisation contract. The proposed law also harmonizes the concept of family household with the definition of household concepts in accordance with the provisions of the Social Care Act. During the year 2017, when this law was here for discussion from the State budget, it was subsidized, as the model was agreed that half of the total amount of the payment or annuity of loans in the first 4 years for housing loans granted while in 2018 the subsidy was carried out in such a way as to pay part of monthly meals or annuities for the first 54 years depending on the development index in which the city or municipality of the applicant’s residence on the day of publication of the public call. We think it's good, why, because when you take a loan you know for yourself that a housing loan, to solve your living issue, is actually the first year and the first year and represent a certain financial impact on each family when, when it is trying to do so, service its obligations and in this context, the context now with each new family member is now being extended, that deadline and, that amount where the state will participate in paying these monthly meals and annuities. So it will certainly have a significant impact on the home budgets of those citizens who will deal with their housing issues in this way. What is also stated and here is not changed is that the subsidisation of the loan is only approved for the purchase of an apartment or house or the construction of a house which has works for the construction or which has an instrument for the use of the building up to a maximum of EUR 1,500 per m2, a meter of useful area or a house or up to a maximum amount of credit up to EUR 100,000 or whose payment period is not less than 15 years. So that part doesn't change here until 1,500 euros. However, there would be little reference to the state of the real estate market since today we see from all the headlines information that the real estate market is breaking all borders in the Republic of Croatia, that a certain balloon means more than EUR 2,000, EUR 2,500, etc., there are numerous speculations and then even reported, it is said that one of the reasons for the growth of real estate and this law. I don't think that's true, and I think that there's a need to deny those who are taking part in the market in that part of the speculative real estate market, that this law, it's my own opinion, that it has nothing to do with this pressure on the real estate market and what they're calling on, that the government's decision to subsidise credit has fuelled a strong rise in the price of real estate that is now breaking all, all possible ceilings. Especially since this is about loans that are strictly limited, up to 1,500 euros per square square, as we consider in Croatia in terms of purchasing power and given the state of financial income that our citizens have, we think this is the upper limit when we talk about income and wages, because we have recently also announced the amount of salaries in the Republic of Croatia. And if you see that 62% of Croatian citizens have a salary of less than $6,253 or what is the average salary of the Republic of Croatia, 62% of citizens and 590,000 citizens, respectively, have less salary and less income than it is, than is the price of squares. The price of squares when we talk in these, even in these POS apartments, not even on the price market. Which means that, as regards the income, the income part means that from your income, you actually pay the most of your salaries, and because of that, and this government subsidy measure to encourage citizens to be able to resolve their housing issue, without getting into that speculative property market balloon, because it's not only a problem when you want to solve your living issue on the market, but it's a problem when someone on the market is putting such pressure on the market that you can no longer realise their housing issue below EUR 2,500, as far as I think Croatia is too priced and given the income and living standard and given the state of the economy and given the state of the industry, the productivity and productivity of the branches, I think that the part, as far as it's possible to try to limit whether it is recently seen that both by entering or leaving from Brexit, etc., we also see that the market for real estate examples in the EU is strong in the market, and the need to be pushed on the market. So we think that if people want to solve their specific housing issues, it has to be regulated and it has to be the state and even in this way, if the subsidy has to give it, it has to give some support. It is said here that the total implementation of the law in 2017 granted 2,315 requirements, in 2018, was slightly more than 2,900 around 5,301 requests in 2 years and that, in fact, so far from subsidising these loans for the purchase of the state or house, i.e. the construction of the house, the total Republic of Croatia has secured 17,5 million kuna and 42 million kuna in 2018, and that 35 million for 2019 and 2020 projections have been made, compared to 2019, around 80 million kuna, i.e. for the payment of subsidies for 2017. 42 million and 34 for 2018 and 4 million for new subsidies to be granted at the end of 2019, i.e. around 114 or 2021, around 150 million kuna. As regards the 2nd Law on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, very briefly, means, the proposed law is governed by the following questions, meaning the possibility of a special programme by addressing the housing issue of citizens who buy apartments on the free market, which is one of the options for resolving the housing issue of protected tenants under the Law on Rent of Apartments, or for dwellings which they are currently using, is enabling the deficit staff in public services to support the resolution of the housing issue, which has already been discussed here, and we certainly support that certain gatherings that provide services provided by public services and the state which has already provided them and the citizens to provide them with a safe and place for these public services to be provided and in view of this deficiting part of the abroad, especially for the countries of the West, where this is completely different way organised to reduce this pressure from our customers, because we do not provide them with any of the necessary public service at the heart, that we do not provide them with any necessary measures. We'll see when after a year or two, when some summary of this law is made, in which part it was, which parts are recognized and what are the effects. The highest price of building land is also determined when the APN or public institution is supplied under this law by units of local self-government that cannot be more than 25% of the Ethlon construction price, i.e. cannot be more than market value. What is good is to coordinate interest rates on public funds for the purpose of implementing this law in relation to the average interest rate on housing loans on the capital market. I'll just add that, and that's what we'll see in the CNB report itself, that the interest rates are at the historical minimum, you've seen it recently from various reports, not only of the CNB, but of the public newspaper inscriptions, that interest rates are somewhere on the Croatian housing market right now about 3%, if these, at least, are written by the media, the CNB in this report that we're going to talk about later, the interest rate has fallen somewhere to 3.8%, and here the state goes below, right? Somewhere at 2%, and we think it's a good thing, especially that part of the interest burden is going to be very high, and when you see that citizens, and many of us who have been taking loans there since the 2000s, you know that you couldn't discuss the interest rate on housing loans between 7.8%. It's who got a 7.8-percent housing loan, he was happy, and back in the '90s it seems to me that there were interest rates and 15%, when people were trying to solve their housing issues. Now, in 2019, when we tell someone that they will be able to solve their housing issues with 2%, that when you tell someone in the '90s, it looks like some kind of science fiction and in that part of the people who have been through that burden of high interest rates, and then even when they have entered that problem of exchange risk and the problem of falling property value, then we see that in that part it has had a strong impact on this part of the economy that has locked up a large part of the income of Croatian citizens only in paying interest, only in paying off the exchange rate differences and the total time that citizens, when they went to solve their housing issues and when you looked at that copy, you saw that after 10 years you only paid interest or only paid exchange rates. What you're not about the principal, you haven't actually come to this at all, and I think it's a good thing that it's finally on the market, to say that in the Croatian market it's starting to work and that we're starting to be equal citizens and the EU, that we can say that we have interest rates between 2-3%. We're still telling the truth, 3.8% interest on housing loans still has room for these interest rates to go down on housing loans, especially if you see how much of the share of the bad loans in these housing loans. If you look at the bank report, you see that citizens, what loans do they pay the most? They pay the most important housing loans, and there's your rate of non-income loans, so-called. NPLs that are in trouble, about 5.6%. When, we'll see later, cash loans, citizens are already in trouble with 6.5%, that we're not saying that the average of bad credit is about 11%, or that companies can't return about 11%, and when you see citizens that it's 5.8%, then we see that it's a safe product of banking where citizens are first going to pay back, they return their housing credit so they can have a quiet not to say, in that part of sleep. And therefore this part of the interest rates where the state has also made a certain step towards reducing that part of the interest, means that it follows the situation on the market and we believe that there will certainly be pressure on the lower rates and in the future. Also, what is good in this part of the law, to introduce a ban on renting or selling apartments, which is necessarily defined by a buy-in contract, is more clearly defined by the rights and obligations and the conduct of the customers of APN, i.e. public institutions and banks in the case of sale or rental of apartments, which is what has been a great deal of cry in clarity and some negative repercussion in general to this particular encouraging housing, as I understand it now and here, is now further empowering and in that part to throw out any further speculation that someone who also uses that encouraging housing can later use for certain profits. As was also mentioned here, that this law on the programme for social promotional housing was built around 8272 apartments and that this total amount was total investment value of 4.2 billion kuna. If you take this one if you take this one, if you take that on the market, the housing loans, here we're saying that this part is a total of 4.2 billion kuna, your housing loans are somewhere in Croatia, somewhere around 50 billion kuna. So all the housing loans, in different currencies, that is, are now euro and only kuna, so your housing credit market is about 50 billion kuna, and here we're saying that this amount is... The construction of about 4.2 billion, which means that also one large part of these, still one large part is being solved on the market, for which the Republic of Croatia, through the incentives, has approved 1.1 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is said, according to the State Statistics Institute, and also mentioned, here we are talking about the price of new apartments sold in 2018. They say the average price per metre is square in the area of the Republic of Croatia, for which the sellers of the company and other and legal persons without... amounting to €11,819, because it is 54% higher than the average price of POS of 7 thousand 670, and we talked about the average salary in Croatia being around €6000 250. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this average salary, and we see that 62% of Croatian citizens... The average salary, there is no average salary, so in that part, it certainly needs to be taken into account and the SDP Club will also support this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140795	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDSS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140796	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As a club, we will, of course, support these two legislative proposals, because it is simply about improving and focusing on young people and people, but we have several objections to the proposed amendments to the law. So if we see that the family is the foundation of society, and that the foundation of a family is a marriage or a community of men and women, then we come to the realization that we, a little by little, by passing a variety of laws, in some small segments, are destroying the foundations of our society, we are destroying the family. And then we're surprised that the situation in society is like that, that society seems to us from day to day, in a way, worse and worse. These legislative proposals aim to strengthen the demographic policy of which the government is particularly concerned and a number of measures are taken, encouraging measures in all parts, to say the legislation. To me here, for that reason, it's not clear why you're in art. 2. Law proposals, amendments and additions to the law on subsidisation of housing loans, a removable family and a household? I really don't understand that? Do we want to encourage young people to get involved, to gather housing, to have children, which is an excellent part of these legal proposals to encourage and stimulate, even after each child, additional subsidies for housing or what we want? If we want to do so, if we want to stimulate young couples, to have children, and to make it easier for our family to keep it and keep it first. Otherwise, we're recording from the basic intensity of passing these laws. And that's why I'm really asking you to consider it one more time until the second reading and that the family's term doesn't get out of this law. All other ways can be encouraged. Children are still born and conceived by men and women in one way or another. If we're going to work out of the test tube, then we can use any concepts. If our goal is politics, yes, then we must cultivate exactly that. Marriage as a union of men and women. And that's what we need to stimulate with all due respect to everyone else. So, I'd like you to consider this one more time, and really that family term, we're really keeping it maximum. The rest of the changes that apply are really positive and we accept as such. But again here I am presenting a proposal, which I have already talked about in the last amended laws, which is to see what is with subsidies, i.e. interest on loans for those who have already bought before, under other laws, and to consider whether we can legally resolve in these amendments, even if the debt deficit, where people have 5% interest, the debt deficit is also now reduced to 2%, as proposed by these legal solutions. This is how we really have one disproportionate incentivization, therefore, of housing. And one more thing, which I'm going to repeat here, I think I should really think about subsidizing private apartment building for rent and also linking subsidisation of rent, I repeat, for young couples, men and women, I'm saying this in terms of the most intelligent policy, no one else, I have nothing against anyone, but if we're going in that direction, then we need to encourage and stimulate and enable, therefore, that entrepreneurship is starting to develop even stronger, especially this in the construction area, that young families can get very easily to solve the housing issue, not by buying and not only buying, but also by renting an apartment that will be, which will ultimately be their first 5 years. while houses are subsidized by additional measures. I think it would certainly contribute, especially because today we have situations where people have to get out of one city, out of one place, because of work, and don't put their necks around each other in a city apartment while they're still dealing with some of their first life issues, and then after that, I can't go anywhere else, and maybe somewhere else in another city in the Republic have more opportunities for work and some better opportunities to live. In this way, one circulation of people within the Republic of Croatia, not across the border, outside the Republic of Croatia, could generally be possible. Here, I ask you once again to consider this part of the term family and household and with this part of the proposal to see if it is possible to make it possible to, meaning, introduce a subsidy, to reduce this interest for the rest of the debt to those who have more interest than 2%, and this proposal to consider part of that way how to co-finance and subsidise the building for renting apartments, we, as a club in this first reading, will support these two amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140797	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support one and the other law, is the first to amend and supplement the House Loan Subsidisation Act and the second Law on Social Encouragement. As I already said in the introduction or in the reply to the State Secretary, therefore, this House Loan Subsidisation Act was designed in 2011, however, it was then accompanied by a subsidy and followed by a state guarantee and this model when it was designed in 2011, 2017 and 2018 and, and so on, it has been completed in a certain way, corrected and I really believe that this is now a better text, but the fact is that it was designed in 2011, on the basis of it, that it was implemented in 2011 and 2012, and that it was sold in that model, i.e. 2,000, and it seems to me 325 apartments. It is a good thing that the Government continued the project for 2019 and 2020. is also planned to continue this project, in my opinion it should be permanent because it is on the one hand encouraged for young people to take and buy apartments, thus resolving the housing issue on the one hand, and on the other hand, they are contributing to improving demographic measures in the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps I should just briefly mention this model, to explain it a little bit, so the model consists in the fact that a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who intends to buy an apartment, a complete service and a job about buying an apartment, is doing it in one place. Therefore, it addresses its bank, which then clearly implements the entire procedure through APN and does not have to wander, travel to a lot of addresses, after having a known seller, is a very simple procedure to conduct the purchase of housing under the Law on subsidisation of residential loans, the citizen must be less than 45 years old, must not own his own house, nor his apartment, apartment or house he takes or which he intends to build must have a clear act on the construction or act or use permit, therefore, only buildings in the Republic of Croatia which are legal within the meaning of the Construction Act, the price of the apartment must not exceed EUR 1.500,00 per m2 or a total of EUR 100,000,00-€, or may be an apartment and cost more than EUR 1.500,00 and may be worth more than EUR 100,000,00, but the subsidy only goes to a limit of EUR 1.500,00 per m2 and up to a total value of EUR 100,00-g. depends clearly on the index of the development of a particular unit of local self-government being subsidized by the credit war, it is not a small war, so half of the war in the first 5.g. One minor simple analysis found that the value of this subsidy in the first 5 g. In practice, it enables this customer of the apartment, that citizen, that state resources can fully equip the apartment, therefore, it is a very important incentive measure immediately at the beginning when it is the hardest thing for young people to pay for loans, to design their lives, to arrange an apartment, to enable the country with this model immediately at the start to equip the apartment. Depending on the length of the loan, it's very important, then it's also the amount of the subsidy, but somewhere at the age of 20, it seems to me to be 20. in local self-government units that are in the fourth or fifth category of the development index, that is somewhere on 100,000 euros somewhere around 14,000 euros in subsidies granted by the state to that citizen who buys an apartment or builds a house through a subsidy, aid in repaying loans. I said that this measure is in a certain way and demographic, it is demographic because it encourages even more quality, better, more productive families that already have children at the time of purchase of the apartment or if during the duration of the subsidisation they get a child in 2 years per child. So it's very important, it's not little, it's also another demographic measure along with the one we've already recognised in several measures of this government. One of them was about the Mirovin Reform where mothers who retired with, who had one child, or two children, had an extra internship for a year if they clearly used maternity leave which is in a certain way correcting the injustice because during the time of maternity leave, then, the cuts were income cuts, the reduction of wages, and in this way the Mirovin reform and aiding and correcting would say that injustice. Not to say that there are increased birth and parental benefits, that there are a number of children who are entitled to a child's allowance. So it's one system of measures of the government's demographic policy that is manifested here and in this law. What I would also like to point out in particular is a fact and I would also link it to the state-owned housing law, that is, through this model of subsidisation of residential loans so far in the Republic of Croatia subsidising both 2011 and 2012, and 2017 and 2018. 8626 apartments. I also say that in 4 years, 2011, 2012, 2017, 2018. And when we talk about socially stimulating housing, that's what it says, and in the light of the law, it's been approved somewhere around 8272 apartments. And when I measure how much the Republic of Croatia must single out one apartment to promote housing on the one hand and on the other hand in this model of subsidisation of residential loans, then we can read that for 8626 apartments according to this Law on subsidisation of residential loans, the state is either going to allocate about 450 million kuna to the end of the subsidy. While in this model of socially stimulating housing I said, almost the same number of 8272 apartments was built again but in 17 years. The state had already set aside a billion and 120 million kuna, according to the law. So you can see that this model is simpler, this model in which we talk about subsidizing residential loans, it's simpler, it enables the customer of the apartment to solve everything in one place, it's very generous, and what I've explained is the subsidy in 5 or more years depends if the family has more children or if it has children during the period of subsidisation, we're cursing more and less costing the state. I therefore believe that this is in a certain way an indicator when we decide on the continuation of this model that I think we should really stick to this model of subsidising housing loans. When I talk about the Law of Encouragement, then I certainly support the amendments to the law, they're good, they're welcome. The more these measures contribute to future owners of apartments through socially stimulating housing. First of all, it is important that the interest rate on public funds is reduced from 3 to 2% and will allow for the construction and purchase of apartments to be maintained, i.e. attract the deficit rate when we talk about public services, it is very important and I think that through the construction and through the purchase and through the rental, it allows better and more quality access to the purchase of apartments. What's also important and it's on the trail of amending the law on renting apartments. At that time, through the adoption of the Law on Renting Apartments here in the Croatian Parliament, we said that protected tenants must be provided with a special one, one line and how to approach the settlement of the housing issue protected by the tenants. This law also extends the possibility of a special programme to help resolve the housing issue of citizens who buy apartments on the free market and that the possibility, as I said, of resolving the housing issue to protected tenants and according to the House Rental Act. The second thing, the third thing I would also point out is to specify the level of the cost of construction land provided by local self-government and which price must not be of 25% of the building price and that is good because we are witnessing that units of local self-government thus harmonize the values of the building land, then it clearly leads to problems in the functioning of the law itself. So in any case, we at the Representatives' Club will support a solution that is in one and another model of subsidising the purchase of apartments. It would be important that this House Subsidisation Act does not apply to only two years. I believe that through this law we could and would allow it to be a lasting measure and not only to be limited to one and two years, but also to the POS, as are many other laws that define the issue of subsidisation of certain and implement certain measures so as not to limit ourselves to 2019 and 2020 alone, but to keep it permanent. And here I would agree with my colleague, Lalovac, that it states that we hear in the media and in the public that this law has enabled and led to an increase in the price of squares, one square meter of apartment in the Republic of Croatia is not related to this law, because since the first day, it has been a subsidy for 8 years, when buying an apartment per metre is the same square and defined to the price of a quarter of 1500 euros. So that's been going on for many years, that model goes on. If the price of one square metre increased from 1500 to 1600, 700 and 800 then perhaps you could directly link it to the price of real estate in Croatia, but in this way I hold that by being defined from 1500 euros per metre square, and on the other hand, the total amount to which the state subsidisation of the purchase of the property is 100 thousand euros for one apartment or house, it has been limited for many years, I say, therefore, should not produce and bring to the price, to an increase in market prices, these are other circumstances on the market, and it certainly has not contributed to this law. Therefore, it would be good, Mr. Secretary of State, if the government had prescribed this law not to limit it year after year and practically every year in the Assembly we are passing legislation to allow subsidising apartments in the Republic of Croatia according to this model on the one hand, it would be good that we do not have to wait for a September month, not us, but citizens who take, buying apartments by this model, that practically always happens in 9 months. Because here, and in this case, we are now changing the law in May, yet another reading of the law, which should be until the summer break, awaits us. And practically, if that doesn't happen, the question is, are we going to do it in nine months? Will APN be able to implement this entire procedure under this law? So, it would be good if we didn't have to depend on whether we were going to do the first and second law reading until the summer break, so that APN could go into the procedure for the implementation and publication of a public call for the realisation of the law itself. It would therefore be good, therefore, if the law were not limited to one or two years, it would be permanent, while the government did not assess that within the budget it was possible to secure funds according to budget options. But at this point, as there are no such fences, I think it would be good, at the beginning of the year, to publish a public call to a certain number of apartments, which will be subsidized, on the dependence on the possibilities of the state budget and therefore not be dependent on any annual amendment of the law itself. So, we're going to support the HDZ Representatives Club and expect that... comes out with another reading, in order to be able to carry out the procedure for the publication of a public call this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140799	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which will speak the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140800	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State and Assistant Minister. The first reading brings together debates and two amendments and additions to the law. One is the Law on subsidising residential loans, and the other is the Law on Social Encouragement and One Apartment. When you ask young people or when you think about life’s ways at all, then always parents and young people would somehow agree that the way for their children they see or people themselves is quality schooling. And for quality schooling the possibility of employment and parallel with it is resolving the housing issue. We must always remember some historical circumstances, therefore, what is tradition in Croatia, is that we like to have real estate. This means, unlike some other countries, where it is not a problem so you have to collect real estate, so Croatian citizens are somehow connected to the desire to have real estate to have the property in which they live in their property. It's a lot harder for some other options to decide. I must admit that I have met some colleagues living in some other EU countries who have said that they have sold their apartment and that they live in a rental and that it is much better and much more evaporative for them, in Croatia, it is not yet so far. We at the GLAS and HSU Club advocate to have several visions, the possibility of solving the housing issue, we think that there should be a beauty for those who want to buy an apartment, for those who have decided on POS for those who have decided on another model, and one model, which we somehow forget, which I am sure, will have more and more influence, is rent. So when you were working, when you were doing one survey, it was asked young people, whether they were more committed to buying an apartment or to renting, and then there was great interest and they said that if they had the means, that they would use those funds for travel, for schooling, and that they would much rather choose to rent. What's the role of the state in all this? And what is the role of individual units of local self-government, municipalities and cities? The role of the state is to regulate a particular market, the role of the state is to react in the way it should. The role of the state when it decided to promote social building, i.e., so-called POS was that at that moment the price was high demand for apartments, there was a certain disproportionateness of what was on the market and decided on the model. So I'm reading these changes and additions, that is, we at the GLAS Club of these changes and additions, we read technical nature or, to improve some things. Surely it's incomparably better that you have one model that's more permanent, even if you have 4 or 5 models, but each of them will be on the team of one model. Therefore, this idea, which is related to subsidising housing loans, would be good if that were the same thing, a permanent model, which will be permanently functioning and that not everyone in the country will be able to see whether or not they can achieve it, but will be decided by this Government, i.e. the Ministry which decided to go through this law in 2017. Likewise in the law of subsidisation, it says, encouraging demographic renewal of society, urban regeneration of the settlement and reducing the emigration of young families. That sounds good, therefore, it can only be one of these measures related to demographics and any assistance to the young family is help. But when you look a little bit, then you see that there are municipalities and cities that also have certain models where they give land to build houses, where they give land equipped with municipal infrastructure, so everyone recognizes that they have to be friends with their fellow citizens, that they have to allow people really to stay there, that's one of the models I have to say that those who remember a little bit more serve, we remember POS and the big debate that was. But to me, it's one of the great examples that POS means and what changes it can make is POS Spain. When it went with the construction of the Spanish POS, then it was really a big debate whether it should be done properly, there was an ex-military, who remembers well. About the fact that there's going to be a traffic connection problem, that there's going to be a problem with the infrastructure, I know how to go there, and I see that the settlement works. There should be more, there should always be some additional contents, but that settlement works. But the model by which it was built 10 or 15 years ago, it's not the models that are today. In doing so, you must know that the City of Zagreb, I am always happy to give an example of the City of Zagreb, has always said that it will not participate in POS and has not participated, or participate today, but will have its own model of residential construction and today has its own model of residential building that is called, which is there on the so-called Podbrje and in this model of residential construction was to build some 6 thousand apartments. I must admit that at one point the ministry came from the City of Zagreb and offered to buy and to work, therefore, those 6 thousand apartments. From this town of Pobrežje, unfortunately it is far from some settlement although it would be good if the settlement happened there because I have some, therefore I have information related to the City of Zagreb, then I see that the number of apartments purchased there is relatively small and almost none. Some other cities that can be a role model really have different models, but that one model that we've gotten away from a lot and we forget a lot, that's the rent model of the apartment. So, if the state could at some point decide to build apartments, then allow citizens to buy them on more favourable terms, I think the time has come for the state and individual cities to really decide to build apartments for rent, and then the one who rents at one point will decide whether to turn this lease into property or not. I have to admit that once upon a time I had the opportunity to talk to a young family and they said, so we would choose to rent for simple reasons, we would go to our parents' rent, and we would go to a new good apartment, and then we would go to their apartment. So what we forget, we should be and fit the time in which it is. Something worth 10 or 15 years ago isn't worth it today. Similarly, at a time when you decide that individual municipalities and certain cities or states in the end line buy apartments, then it can do so for deficiting interests for a simple reason because that someone can decide to work for a while in Rijeka, and then it goes behind it to work in Osijek, and that his apartment is not an obstacle or that it is not his problem. Of course, the debate has raised the issue of real estate businesses, the issue of an increased price of real estate has been raised. I kind of don't think it's the law's fault, but it's simple trends in which these individual waves are happening, and I think it's pretty often accused of this House Loan Subsidisation Act, I'd be one of the first to say it's a law, but it seems to me it's just not like that and on the market, the market is responding to demand and, of course, if a country comes to that market and subsidizes the purchase of an apartment, there's going to be an increased need, but it would probably happen anyway, maybe in some other time. At a time when the state decides to support or measures to help its citizens to resolve the housing issue, then it certainly has something to do with the whole area and the construction and then it's like the domino effect, it has to do with everything else. So, in a way that all of a sudden construction is no longer at the bottom but it rises, about construction being the first to feel recession, but first to feel the exit from recession. Then you get up and the construction industry, so it all has to do with you. But you just have to have that kind of policy and know what you want. And in that policy indeed offer one leprosy of products. To me, it seems to us in GLAS, it seems to me that renting apartments is one of the choices that should be decided on, the more the agency, the more that, therefore, they might be involved. What you have at this time first sensed and great cities, and then at some point you will feel smaller cities, in the City of Zagreb you have a problem at all, because privates have turned their apartments into apartments and have far-reaching consequences, on the one hand they have turned into apartments, on the other hand, when it is built some space, then it is built with other infrastructure, making sure that there will be housing, while I mean schools, kindergartens, capacities and everything else, it is a burden in maintaining certain cities. Some parts of the city are going counter, no more urban regeneration than anything else, so that regulating the rent of apartments at this point would be necessary for several reasons. One reason is indeed to allow people who do not want to buy an apartment to provide them with the possibility of quality housing. What you are actually reading from this Law on subsidising residential loans is the possibility of really helping individual citizens, which is okay, when you read part of the law that is related to social and encouraging housing, there are two moments that you would like to highlight, one moment is the possibility of solving the housing issue of protected tenants under the Law on Renting Apartments, so when the Law on Renting Apartments went, then one of the models was to buy apartments of POS, when the law came into force, of course our fellow citizens of older age in those apartments, were first upset and said, so we went to ask about POS, there they mocked us and said what kind of POS, whatever kind of word it would be good for the Secretary of State to hear how much it was required and how much it was possible for the Law on the rent to solve it. Of course, the reduction of interest on credit is extremely good and for the end, there is one topic that is not a topic since yesterday, and that is, you never, when you're doing the law, can come up with the ideas and imagination of our fellow citizens and the reason why someone decided to buy in POS or anything else and there's no end. What was always a problem was that someone bought an apartment according to POS and then never moved into that apartment, but these are some other programs that I'm not going to mention now, that they never moved into that apartment, but the apartment was for, immediately rented it, especially when it came to POS, where attractive land or waited for a time and then decided to sell it. Now, in the law at one point and there was one provision that defined and certain prohibitions, and then the Constitutional Court said that it was an anti-constitutional provision or the theme is that when you become the owner that your property cannot be restricted and there was, on several occasions, the idea that something happened in the law because, first of all, it's incorrect, incorrect to a series of things, unfairly, I don't know how to use it at all, so there's a series of, like, things. This provision, which is defined in this way, seems to me to be correct, is now just a question that it might be that until the second reading if you haven't done so, it would be a little communicative with the Constitutional Court that just as before some provisions were declared constitutional, that it would not be this one or that we have as much certainty that it would be defined in a certain way because it was not the purpose of building a POS additional profit for some of our fellow citizens, but of resolving the housing issue on favourable terms, in the way that it was done. I must also remind myself that the first idea of POS was co-operation between the state and the cities, some cities and municipalities, and today it does, and it really makes it possible for its fellow citizens to reach their properties at an extremely low price, some have decided on their model that we have never even seen. These amendments to each other's laws, I read them, they're in principle, of a technical nature, and that's how they should be read. What's the idea is that this government needs every government, and the government needs to decide on a continuous housing policy. If we had to answer my question about what kind of housing policy in the Republic of Croatia, I'm afraid we wouldn't have it. Likewise, it seems to me, and I'm sure unlike any of the other policies we've defined, that the more urgent we should define a housing policy that you'd know in the long run, that's who you are when you play the game, so you can't be told at half the game not to play basketball, but football, but to define yourself. I thought it was 20 since it was united, but good. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140801	We didn't, nobody asked, so then it stayed at 15. Here he is, the next Club of Representatives is that HNS on behalf of which will speak respected representative Bernarda Topolko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140802	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we at the HNS express our satisfaction that today we can discuss the amendments and additions to the existing law or the Law on subsidisation of housing loans or that the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction has found another way to improve the possibility of financing for young families. The data that says that through the current House Loan Subsidisation Act 5300 families have managed to realise a grant for housing loans is a data that shows the goal that this law also wants to achieve. The law is a priority measure of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning to help young families and thus contribute to the implementation of demographic and innovative policy in the right sense of the word. The basic amendment to the existing law refers to the additional subsidisation of housing loans for each existing under-age child with an additional year of subsidisation of housing credit. I believe that by the end of July this proposal will pass the second reading and be voted on so that its provisions can be applied already in the next published public call. This measure, which wants to implement this bill more than necessary, and I am pleased that the ministry in implementing the existing law has seen that this provision to Croatian citizens, young families, can be further helped in realising and facilitating the resolution of the housing issue, and that the law can be even better and even more effective. The interest of citizens in this social and demographic measure is seen by ourselves quite large and it is good enough that the existing law allows one continuity in subsidising housing loans. This also confirms that the number of applications increased by 23% in 2018. In the club of HNS representatives, we support the adoption of this bill, and we believe that this is a quality measure that will further help young people, young families to resolve the housing issue. As regards the second draft of the law, which is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Incentives, it means the law that was first passed in 2001, has been amended several times, and it is assumed that it is usually changed when it is changed, it is indeed about adapting to market conditions and economic situation in the country, which is really necessary since this law is almost all defined in respect of purchase and construction prices and this time so. This bill shows concern for employees working on deficits or public service jobs and gives them support in resolving the housing issue. It shall be made possible except for the construction and purchase of apartments or family houses for the purpose of renting state and deficit public servants during the service. This will certainly contribute to making it easier for officials of deficiting professions to accept jobs in places where such professions are lacking, so in health care, in school, in science. As regards the Law on renting apartments and protected tenants, it was necessary to make these amendments to the Law on Social Incentives so that the forms of promotion of housing could also apply to protected tenants. In this proposal, Article 8 of the Law provides for assistance in addressing the housing issue of citizens who buy an apartment on the real estate market, which is one of the options for resolving the housing issue of protected tenants especially for the apartments they are now using. It can now be said that the forms of encouraging housing and helping our citizens can also be applied to protected tenants who will now be able to use a special POS credit line for existing old apartments. Also, the interest rate is changing due to the market situation. The interest rate on public funds in the POS credit line is reduced from 3% to 2% and this measure will certainly make it easier for citizens to help them resolve the housing issue. The bill specifically defines how land can be purchased from a unit of local self-government, so not only to be 25% of the ethlon price of construction but also not to be higher than the market price. Therefore, more clearly defines the limit levels of the building land prices for the construction of apartments. It is also an increasing phenomenon that POS apartments are not primarily used for housing but for other purposes. The phenomenon is most expressed in the coast where a large number of POS are rented specifically to tourists. It is necessary to stop this abuse of public funds in the use of housing from the programme... and therefore it was necessary to introduce this measure by which all new contracts on the purchase of apartments to be concluded will contain clauses on which apartments will not be able to be sold or leased for a period of 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has not been an abuse until now, but it is an unfair use of state resources and some restrictions still need to be implemented. So far, except for a very short period of time, the absence of such a clause, many unfortunately exploited. This will put an end to the resale or lease of favourably purchased POS apartments. This clause, of course, limits, everyone can have their own apartments and POS as they wish before the deadline of 10 years, but first they have to return state resources, taking into account, of course, the change in living circumstances and the difficult life situations that citizens can face when granted early availability. Thus, the State would charge everything it invested in the subsidy no matter at which time before the loan expires, the apartment would be offered for sale or lease, so before the 10-year period expires. This is a measure that needs to be taken and that will ensure that the dwellings are actually used for the purpose for which they were built and for which the state singles out public funds. Currently, the construction of 186 apartments in 4 cities, Biograd na Moru, Đurđevac, the town of Krk and Varazdin is planned for 2 years to build new 1000 apartments. A very good measure that allows 8000 young families to reach their apartments and that is crucial, POS's apartments must be exclusively for those who need them and who are, and who are not able to buy apartments at market prices. Thus, young families will receive safety and quality of construction at a lower price of squares than the market. The club of HNS representatives will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140803	Thank you very much, before we continue to welcome the students and students of Rudes Elementary School from Zagreb. Here it is, and now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Marko Sladolev will speak, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I also welcome Rudesh Elementary School, because some emotional football memories tie me to that school and their professors, and now I'm going to look back on this law. Amendments to the law have been made as the applicant points out for the purpose of encouraging demographic renewal of society, urban regeneration of settlements and reducing the emigration of young families and helping citizens through subsidisation of housing loans. We think that state intervention in the area of housing may be good, but how it goes with us has gone wrong. The apartments are purchased by those who have money, employees with a contract on work indefinitely, creditworthy and while the ministry assures us that the purpose of demographic renewal is in the current draft laws that come from this ministry, unfortunately public consultation and proposals that have been much better quality and justified have not been accepted. Thus, it is also one of the proposals that should be increased per child by 2 years of subsidies and the competition should last throughout the year to reduce imbalances on the market. We add that earlier amendments to the law to help undeveloped parts of Croatia and affected by the greatest emigration of young people should address it in a way that will bear fruit. And reducing the subsidy percentage is not. The conditions are worse this year than to go forward and nothing has changed. We did not go forward with the changes in a way to encourage a greater number of people to address housing needs, but rather to reduce the amount of subsidies towards development and a slight increase towards the lack of development of certain areas. In addition to insufficient total means of implementation of the law. These changes also left essential components to ensure that young people remain in rural areas. The statistical indicators of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation for 2017 show that of the 2,328 approved subsidized housing loans, 821 were from the City of Zagreb where the interest and needs of citizens were the highest, as well as other major cities. In Osijek there were 105, in Split 75, only 47 approved loans in Rijeka mainly for the purchase of apartments that made 73% of all requests, and in smaller places the interest was greater for the purchase or construction of houses. Where citizens were most interested in buying an apartment or building a house there will reduce the amount of the loan subsidy by as much as 20% of the monthly war, i.e. 1% increase in undeveloped parts of Croatia. The Act on subsidising residential loans in 2018 to subsidise loans for the purchase of an apartment or house or the construction of a house in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the local self-government unit's development index, where the apartment or house is located and in the least developed 8th unit of the local self-government unit is realised 56%, 62% of the approved loans. In the seventh group, 12% of approved loans were realised, around 13% of approved loans were realised in the sixth group, in the fifth group of 5 approved requests, in the fourth 6,86, in the third 2.62, in the second 1.6, and in the first group of 0.97 approved requests, showing that the same amount of subsidy of the total amount of meals or annuities did not result in encouraging the resolution of housing issues in rural areas and lower development or reducing the emigration of young people from those areas, which is one of the objectives of this law. And now, in response to this, it follows to prevent the emigration of young people from Croatia, especially from undeveloped parts that are largely rural, you went to a reduction in the amount of subsidies towards development, or a slight increase towards the lack of development of the area with insufficient overall means of implementing the law. Such solutions and measures of housing policy are not comprehensive, there is no complete solution offered if you say that demographic recovery is the purpose. So the ministry proposes a demographic renewal only to those who take credit for a minimum period of 15 years. What families in the Republic of Croatia have the opportunity to rebuild demographically when the vast majority of working contracts have young people for a certain time? Are you aware that, according to the report for March 2019, the Croatian Employment Institute 55% of the unemployed in Croatia are under 45 years old. Do they have a chance for demographic restoration only for those families who have money, whose members work and who have a contract for an indefinite period of time and those who are creditworthy? The government's proposal to amend the law says that this measure will help young people, but at the same time a tax was introduced on the first 3% real estate, and this tax relief meant a lot to young people, young families who first bought real estate. In addition to all the above, you do not go to the POS bureaucrats again and register one child at a time, issue an extension solution, and follow it closely around the Croatian bureaucracy. For the MOST of Independent Lists, it is urgent to introduce a horizontal measure of abolishing the first real estate tax and, of course, for all of this to be paid, if we were to have the will to reform the public administration for which 880 million kuna was secured with the aim of digitising and depoliticalising, optimising the number of employees in the public administration, of course there would be money, but there is no political will for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140805	Thank you. The next club of MPs is one of the independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140806	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, although the previous debate here has been said to be, that it is about technical harmonisation of the law, and as the proponent claims in the introduction of this law to approach amendments because it has shown in practice the need for these amendments personally, and in the name of the club, we have no objections to these changes because they are indeed going towards those measures that are meant for these two laws, that they are better realised and, as I say, the changes themselves are not disputed. However, what is controversial is the very implementation of these laws from the beginning. For everyone, as far as I've heard from the debate here, everyone is here in the assembly, I believe it is to be aimed and to welcome, any decision by the Government that will make it easier for all families to acquire property, especially young people, and in this way other than housing policy, to support and lead a demographic policy because the situation in the Republic of Croatia is not good at all. Every day, more and more people leave this country, one or the most because they do not have a safe job. Therefore, the government's policy, with which both government representatives and praises were subsidising employment, encouraging employment measures, however, if we look at the data, the largest number of newly employed, especially young people, is working on the Treaty at a specified time, and it is one of the barriers that these laws, these two laws, in particular the Law on subsidisation of interest on loans, will liven up. Everything in the Republic of Croatia that we encourage, what we encourage, is covered not only by a veil of secrets, but by many, we could say freely, illegal actions, we, when we want to destroy something in the Republic, then we just need to encourage it, so, here with our incentives. One of the main objections to this legislative proposal, not only now with the amendments, but also with its adoption, is that we might call it that it goes in favour of the stronger. So when we talk about incentives, then all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia stand out for encouraging measures, so all citizens participate in subsidising a group of people, it's always a particular group that helps subsidies, but everyone participates in the poorest. In the previous debate, a colleague of Sladolev used the data published on the APN page when talking about the implementation of subsidisation of housing credits for applications received in 2018, so of the total received 3033 applications, 2972 applications were granted, and the subsidisation contracts were concluded with users in 2844 cases. The average credit user life is 34 years, 21 years, effective interest rate is 3.20%. True, the law defines the maximum effective interest rate that banks are allowed to determine, but it is defined only during the loan subsidisation period, after that time there is no longer such provision and therefore, the bank can after that effectively determine how much interest it wants, of course, it is in line with the market. The average amount of the subsidisation of the residential loan is EUR 66.600,00, the average monthly annuity or war credit is EUR 385.00, the average monthly subsidy of the annuity is EUR 125.00, the average size of the apartment is 68 m2, the size of the house is slightly higher 141 m2, the price per m2 of the apartment is an average of EUR 1.235.00, and per m2 of the house is EUR 490,00, you see this difference, and the average size of the house is 189 m2, the total gross area. The total number of apartments that are financially subsidized under these measures is 1918 and House 749 is probably thinking about buying here, and building a house of 305, a total of 2972, by banks, this is now less important, should be mentioned that Erste Bank has the most, most of all, I apologize, the Business Bank has the most requirements processed. Now we come up with the key fact that here and our colleague Sladolov talked about him, and when we talk about the city's development index or the community then in the first group, the worst group to express myself, the poorest one that subsidises with 51% of the monthly meal or annuity, the share in such demands is only 1%, 0.98% of the second group is 1.62%, the third group is 2.62%, and then it grows by share in groups to the eighth group that is most developed and has the most of course and requires 1,683, 56.63%. Of course, it's as clear to me as anyone that apartments are bought, built and houses where there are jobs, where the development index is large. Of course it won't happen in my Slavonia, in most of my Slavonia, but I am still stressing how all in the Republic of Croatia stand out for incentives and in this sense this measure is unfair. And here I am immediately saying that I agree with the predecessors who said that this measure should be permanent, because it is unfair to undeveloped areas. If we look at the county, then the share in the approved requirements, I am talking about 2018, and it is an indicative dish, of course, that the City of Zagreb is ahead with a total of 898 requests, while say the Virovitičko-Podravska County 61, Sibenik-Kninska 29, Ličko-Senjska 23, Vukovar-Srijemska bit more than 105, Požeko-Slavonska 29, Osijek-Baranja which belongs to a little bit let's say developed Slavonia 291 requests. So is the amount of annual subsidy in the City of Zagreb 10 million kuna, while in Virovitica-Podravska County it is 617.344 kuna. As for these additional subsidies related to newborn children, above those in 2 years, there is a situation similar, of course most in the City of Zagreb, and yet after the counties of Virovitica-Podravska only one case. So, in those poorer counties, we haven't achieved our goal, but that doesn't mean that this, this law shouldn't have been passed, that it shouldn't be implemented. That's not what I'm saying, I'm just saying that the government has to think about the poorer ones, because these measures won't prevent people from leaving in the poorest parts, that there's no job, that people are working for a certain time, that the minimum wages are low and that then this measure itself right in people is causing a revolution and they say it's only for the richer ones. When we talk about POS on APN sites we also have data, totally built, now these data are little difference, somewhere mentioning 8.272, about 8.276, 8.254 most of this is order size, 244 buildings total, value 4.267.740.000 kuna that was up to 31. 8. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: Now here is mentioned, someone here in the previous debate mentioned more buildings being built on the island of Krk or in Baška, but here is to pass a little bit only which are now built buildings and residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia. Metković, a multi-state building with 55 apartments, Zagreb Zapruđe 519 apartments, for Metkovic does not have an average price probably pre-contracted it, it is which is defined by this law in the amount of 1,125.66 EUR per m2, I do not know not the data on the APN page marked. Zagreb Zapruđe 1,088,62 EUR per m2, 519 apartments. Zagreb Klara 332 apartments, 965,64 EUR per m2. Osijek 38 apartments in Vukovar Street were also mentioned in the last debate, the price unfortunately went there to EUR 1,022. At the time they were built it was an unacceptable price because it could be bought at a commercial price much cheaper. Zagreb Spanish, Oranice 1.545 apartments, has no value per square but the total value is 901 million kuna, of which is the incentive of 178 million. Split Kila 162 apartment 1.107.99 EUR. Umag 39 apartments 874,24 EUR. Split Brodarice 384 apartment 907,73 EUR per square. Mali Losinj 20 apartments 1.125.66, Gospić 30 apartments 840.47 EUR, Fažana 12 apartments 1.125.66. Sibenik Šubičec 148 apartments, Punat 22 apartments are pre-contracted prices from 1.125, Krk Baška I hear here that in Varazdin you can notice yourself except Osijek which was mentioned, which was previously built somehow poorly mentioned cities in Slavonia. Once again, I would like to emphasise against these laws, against these amendments that are a little bit and orderly and extend these subsidies, and we have no objection to the number of children in household members, but we need to think about less developed areas for those people who cannot possibly get credit and the Government of the Republic of Croatia i.e. Her representatives every minister when he comes here to defend his law must think about the whole picture to change the situation. One more question here for the Secretary of State, since this is in POS, for POS construction is now defined by this law on the inability to abuse, which is with subsidized construction and purchase, whether users can after 5 or 7 how long the subsidy afterwards sell the property, take the money and not blame them for leaving this country. We'll support this, I'll support myself, and I believe that a colleague of these changes will, but I say, you should think about the poorest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140807	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140808	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished State Secretary with an associate here on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats, a few words about these two laws. The promoter said that the aim of these laws is primarily demographic reconstruction of Croatia, even development, helping young families to stay in Croatia, to have their own apartment and to be taken care of. And everything, that's nice and that's what we from the Croatian Peasant Party support. But what we, as a law-making body, must ensure that Croatia develops evenly and every equal chance in Croatia. And even through these two laws, that's not what the figures say. So here is just an example of the number of requests submitted for subsidisation of loans for the past 2018 of the 2328 approved we have an example that from Lika-Senj there were 13 requests, from Požeko-Slavonska 16, from Sibenik-Kninska 16, Virovitičko-Podravska 30, Vukovar-Srijemska 44 and Brod-Posaviska 49. Of course, the most from Zagreb 876. And none of us are against the fact that young people in the city of Zagreb, Varazdin or Rijeka are solving their living issue and thus expanding their family and creating quality conditions for their work and development and themselves and their families. However, we would also like the very ones from Licko-Senjska, Sibenik-Kninska, Vukovar-Srijemska or Brod-Posaviska to have the same chance. Why are there numbers like this? So the key is to look at other economic and statistical indicators about the quality of life and the standard of citizens in these underdeveloped areas. And only from the fact that more than 300 thousand families have moved out of Croatia and all families, is the majority of these undeveloped areas, especially from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, one of the preconditions for such figures. Secondly, what the government is taking and the fact that certain procedures have been initiated has invested $1.39 billion in employment, primarily young people. What are the results? Well, the latest figures say that the employment rate last year only increased by 1.7%, according to a percentage of 60.6% of the total population in the 25th place of the 27 EU member states. And what's particularly interesting is that young people aged 15-29 are falling. The target was 43.4% and the result was 42.5% lower than in 2017 when it was 42.9%. Also when you look at the average salary data in the Republic of Croatia, which is more than 7200 kuna in Zagreb. What is the average salary in Croatia? 6200 and some kuna and in my Brod-Posavina County far below 4800, 4800 kuna. So that's why we say that these two laws and the overall policy of this government have not yet produced results and is not going at the pace that we would like to come from these areas and that here we defend the interests of citizens in these areas. And therefore this expansion to, or increase to undeveloped areas for through credit subsidies and interest subsidies is OK, but not to be taken to those who live and work. And they need young people in Zagreb. Why didn't you go with a more significant increase just for those undeveloped areas? And why there is no employment policy in this direction to finally address the problem of youth unemployment, especially those that work for a certain time. And we are one of the EU member states where the highest employment rate for young people is for a certain time. And how come this young man who doesn't have a contract on working indefinitely is planning a family and taking care of himself. Here's just for example, in Brod-Posavina County of 38 thousand and some employees of nearly 9.5 thousand young people live and work for a certain time. These are extremely large percentages, large numbers and simply these young people have no chance of even taking part in these measures and of course it is not the subject of these laws and only of this ministry but that the general policy of the Government must go after it to enable all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to develop evenly and equal opportunities. Because it's strange that even through the Law of Encouragement, apartment building is announced over a thousand, mostly on the coast and on the sea and on the islands, of course it should be there. But where there are Otok, Orahovica, Lipik, Pakrac, Nova Gradiška and other cities from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, Belisce, there are none. And certainly there's an interest there both young and those units of local self-government that they get involved in... projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I have already said this, which is the problem, too little fiscal capacity for those units of local self-government to get involved. And that's why we're here last week to discuss going with changes to other laws, to increase the capacity of these fiscal units of local self-government. You refused the regulation to increase compensation for local self-government units. You rejected the Regulation on the increase of compensation for local self-government units from the incomes of affected amounts of hydrocarbons and a number of other such examples. And he can, he just needs political will. To help these undeveloped areas significantly requires money. The finance minister boasts of the surplus in the budget, so there's room. You also rejected the bill proposed by the HSS Club to punish those who have no evidence of acquired property, illegally acquired property and to tax. European statisticians say 40 to 50 billion are in the gray zone of the economy annually in Croatia, meaning it gets dark. Who is in the interest of not putting this under the auspices of the law because it is the revenue of the state budget and that you can then co-finance more and the loans for young people we welcome, that you can more co-finance loans for young people in rural areas. We see that there is also a problem, that there are too few requirements in these areas and I said what is a prerequisite and these are jobs, that is a salary that will satisfy the needs of quality of life and that will enable them to pay off the annuities of credit and then it is no wonder that the union is employed in education, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers announces the strike, because their salaries, their over 12 thousand are far behind the average in the Republic of Croatia, and especially for the average salary in the City of Zagreb. And not to mention other activities, such as wood industry, textiles, where wages are even lower. And then it's strange that you don't accept proposals that come from the opposition to increase the non-taxable share of personal income, to increase personal income, precisely in that group of citizens, who live and work for a salary of 3.5 4,5 thousand kuna to 8 thousand kuna, which is the most in the Republic of Croatia, some figures say about 500, 600 thousand or our citizens. They, most of them, are not in tax dollars, but you still have to find models and ways to make it possible for our fellow citizens to have bigger, personal income. And what most of those young people, who have left the Republic of Croatia, have said, that with this part, then there is no work, that it is difficult to get to work is the problem and that of party personneling. And the fact that they didn't want any party IDs, they took their passport and left the Republic of Croatia. The whole of Europe is talking about some circular economy, about the green economy, and here it looks like a party economy and the circular economy, because the first membership card, the current ruling parties, and then the workplace in one of the state administrations, now we hear 500 new employment in the State Inspectorate. Now, that's the party's circular economy, party card, job, and then it can use housing housing and housing interest subsidisation. However, don't be surprised, then more young people will go, especially now that Austria is opening borders for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that they can be freely employed. This should be considered and made such policies, and these laws should be adapted precisely to those less developed, which are in the most need, and here something cosmetic is changing, not as fast as it should be and not as fast as it should be, because it is too late for those who have gone, and if we want to stop these teachers, who announce the strike, not to leave doctors, so here, it is already a big problem in health, and 12 thousand medical resources are missing. How will a county organize family medicine if there are no doctors or medical resources? How will they stop them from moving when there is no room to enter the encouraging apartment building, nor can these employees expect a job with an average salary of 7200 kn as it is in the City of Zagreb. These are unsettled dreams for people who live and work in these rural areas, here's what you're thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140809	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate, the first one was to be the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. But before I give my word to the respected representative Đujic, first let's welcome the students and students of OŠ Rudes from Zagreb, second group now, and we'll welcome them. ... And one notice, therefore, of such respected MPs and MPs would like to inform you that due to the justified prevention of the proposing, the point we announced as second on tomorrow's schedule, which is the Annual Report on the implementation of the strategy and the law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017, will be discussed as the first item on Friday. [[Applause.]] While the item planned for Friday would be the Report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2018. discussed tomorrow as a second point. So we will only change his order of these points because of the justified prevention of the proposing. And now he would give his word in an individual debate to the respected representative Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So my debate will be based, i.e. the main part of my debate, on the Law on subsidising loans for the housing of citizens. So, first of all, I am sorry that there is no Minister Štromar here, because I love when he explains this law and I like to listen to his explanations even though he has just come into this law, this is the original law proposed by Minister Kuščević, so he is an ideaable beginner of this story and what I want to remind is this already 2.3 of this law. I want to remind you a little bit of the beginning of the whole story about how this law ever came about. Therefore, in the context of the tax reform of 2017, The government, when the first real estate tax was re-introduced, the tax was re-introduced, there was a big storm in the public, and afterwards, the government's response was an express, the introduction of laws, or the government's solutions would pay you half the loans for the housing of young families, which, in itself, was, as an idea, well, but as it was fired, so we waited for some first proposals and as a reminder, it was the original idea, even then the minister was Mr. Kuščević, later the HNS entered this government and then it took over to himself Mr. Štromar. What is good about these changes, here, I welcome today in these changes the introduction of an extension of subsidies for every child already born for young couples. So, that is, the biggest change in this law today, for every child that the young couple already has will be extended by another year, but what I want to point out is that I expect to change this law again, which happens again in the 5th, 6th month, because every year something changes and now I already have the impression that the Ministry is doing it just before the opening of a new competition, every year, just to keep this story constantly talking, advertised and talked. Because I don't know why, which kept you from, at first, being immediately in the original draft of the bill, this measure is also foreseen, so that young families who already have children are immediately pricked. So we already have two competitions behind us where people under certain conditions got these loans and, let's say they didn't have this benefit. So they're cut off from those customers' credits that will be in the future. To remind again, in the original, first draft of the law, 50% of the loans were subsidized, 50% was a subsidy for all areas and that subsidy lasted 4 years. If a couple had a child during that period, each subsidy would be extended by another 2 years per newborn child. Then you did the first change after a year where you introduced subsidies depending on the development index and then you extended it for a year. What did you actually do? Nothing. So. Someone had 50% subsidy for 4 years and then you made a change to have a 30% subsidy for 5 years, 35, 40, I'm going to say that these measures are according to the development index, for example. A lady who can't tell me she's one of Croatia's most developed cities, no one there has a 50% subsidy. So the young family that buys an apartment in Gospić, has no subsidized loan of 50%, but it seems to me that some 30 and 5.6% are about that way, and I think that in Gospić there should be a subsidy of 50% in such areas. So in the amount of money, you didn't make between the original law and the first changes, nothing. The amount remained the same, the subsidy remained the same financially, but what did you do? You got one more commercial to talk about how I don't know, you're doing something good. I think this law could have been or could have been much better originally, we don't need to make any changes every year and transfer something from hollow to empty, another thing, I think it should have remained a 50% subsidy on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia because it is not the same for you to subsidize 30% of the credit for buying an apartment in an area like I don't know, Gospić and a 20% subsidy or 25% subsidy in Zagreb where the price of squares is 3 times higher. The second thing, this law has led to this and the state has by no means reached, that we have an increase in the price of real estate just before the tendering for this subsidy. So, in the last two, three years, we've had sales prices up, and the state hasn't found any answer to that. So, all in all, when all this is done together, again because of the other policies of this government, according to banks, the banks are no longer giving so lightly these loans, and there is a reduction in the number of young families who can come into a position of credit since they can no longer be guaranteed to each other and that there should be so many receipts that there are very few young people who can even come in a position to borrow credit for the apartment and this is again caused by some other government policies. So this government hasn't found a complete response to the housing of young people, with this introduction of subsidies by the development index, it's made a story that we essentially encourage purchase, subsidize buying less where people live less and there 50% of the subsidy is in a place where no one will buy an apartment not because people there don't want to live, but there's no business, so what's going to happen to a young man's apartment in a town or municipality where he's going to have 50% subsidy and he won't have a job in that place? So that's the missing story and that's all the things this government hasn't found an answer to. So it's just a transfer from hollow to empty but ultimately our young family better than nothing, I said it and when the law was passed but they get crumbs and most of the funds are still left with banks which, since we know that at the beginning of the loan exactly in these 6, 7, 8 years if someone had raised a loan to 15 or 20, they were paying interest, so the state subsidized to interest, so the bank gets the funds and young families are getting crumbs and these are the things that aren't good, I think it should have returned the subsidy to 50% regardless of the development index for the territory of the entire Republic and that in all areas it's such a measure in such a way, this duration of year is fine, the increase for the family is fine, but I say, it would have taken care of the entire development of the Republic and the equal chances for all young people regardless of living, because where the most developed environment, there is also the war credit, there are flats, there are, there are all the apartments, and there are all the same amount of Split, and there is no one in Split that is no more than the city. These are the things I wanted to point out and say again, I have the impression that always at the 4th, 5th months. The current year you're doing some petty cosmetic changes just to rewritten this bill and to make marketing work on it as here we've now done something wow super done much better than last time and basically offer all the time solutions you could install immediately so that the best example is this first change when you cut the subsidy percentage and extended by one year. So in the mass of the young family she got I don't know, 100,000 kuna credit subsidies if it was 50% in 4 years and she got 100,000 loan subsidies if it was 35% in 5 years, so it's the same money just from the garden but you had, all last year the opportunity to talk about it again here we go in the fall, it's a great measure, we're doing great and that's what I wanted to point out. I hope I'm wrong, that there won't be any more changes to this year's issue and once again I say, I'm sorry there's no Minister Stromara because he would certainly give a better spirit to this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140811	Thank you. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140812	Thank you, dear colleague Djujic, in your debate you have rightly mentioned that the changes proposed by the Government year after year are essentially cosmetic and are inexorably reminded of this being corrected in a small way and that there is essentially no solution to the main problem of young families in the Republic of Croatia, which is to create better conditions for better wages and that people can live a decent life from their work. So it's very hard to pay off any war on credit if you don't have a job, not just to work, but to get paid so you can pay for some war. Because today in the Republic of Croatia, it is not possible to pay a war of 2,3,000 kunas or people who have a family to afford it. And that's why I'm also being forced here by the situation that the cobwebs are being solved. One small part of the problem, and the problem is not solved as a whole. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140813	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140814	Thank you, colleague Maras, well, that is the whole related policy story of this government, so not only are our young people's salaries in Croatia hard to pay back, but young families hardly get a loan for housing. That's one whole story the government should have, and it's gone. So, both policies towards banks and policies towards wages, tax policy, incentives for not knowing how to get kids, these are expensive burdens on the costs of young families who have children. And that's what the government doesn't systematically access on the other hand we still have this situation that one policy runs the HDZ and then they compete between themselves who's gonna be better, who's gonna be more successful, who's done more for young people, and basically nobody does anything concrete, and young people are leaving the country every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140815	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Christmas Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140816	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, so Đuric, as far as this part is concerned, when you started to think that we really had the part where the first real estate acquisition was released from paying real estate taxes, I think it was a good measure. And when it was abolished, this was some compensatory measure, but here it was going that it wasn't 5%, but it's still 3% in real estate tax. And I don't know why you're opposed to change, as often as it is, even if it's better every year and if it's better. And these are exactly what they pointed to in the public debate and through the conversations of those young people who sought these loans and users of these loans. So listen and change for as often as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140817	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140818	I don't know where you guys figured out that I'm against these changes, and I said it was good stuff, I just think it was supposed to happen three years ago. Why? Because nothing prevented it from being installed two years ago. That's a good thing, but I want to point out that the HNS in this portfolio obviously has a designed strategy to give something small every year, which could have been given immediately, that every year at the 4th, 5th month before the competition that happens at 9th, once again, this law would have been updated by this subject in public. That's my opinion, that's my impression. So, especially these first changes that were. The extension of the deadline, and the reduced percentage of subsidies in the global amount of money, so the family finally gets the same thing nobody can tell me that it's not a cosmetic change that brought people what, nothing. So, HNS targeted here works, they already know for sure the secretary of state now knows what changes will happen in the 3rd, 4th month in order to talk again is still an election year so maybe Go on next year that even bigger, bigger, but I will support this law and as it is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140819	Next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140820	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, you've said a lot of things that are wrong, and here I'm just going to report on something that I also don't think you mentioned, and that's first of all the state has agreed that at the beginning there will be 2% interest with banks. This was a condition for banks, and later interest can increase after 5 years when young families themselves pay off loans. I think it's just not good, the state should condition the banks that all the time loans are 2%, 2%, and not just at the moment when the state is co-financed. And we haven't solved any work contracts yet. You know that when young families take credit, and you can't take credit if one of the employees is on a contract for a certain time. It's a big problem in Croatia, it has to solve the same thing, young families can't raise a loan can't guarantee because they just have work contracts, and we haven't solved it, and it's up to the government, it should solve the same thing. Young families find it extremely difficult to get credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140821	Thank you. Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140822	Thank you very much, colleague Prelec exactly this story of interest again shows that at last the most beneficial are banks and that young families get crumbs. The second thing is how the government responded to the increase in the price of squares in real estate. She responded in a way that she said could be priced and higher, and the government will subsidise up to 1,500 euros per square cent. Instead of insisting that the price must be so then those who sell apartments would hold that price square otherwise those apartments wouldn't sell, and they know this way that they can sell the apartment for 2,500 EUR and that the state will subsidize up to EUR 100,000 and then someone will buy an apartment of 50 squares and pay it 100,000 thousands instead of the state sticking to that limit per square, I think it would be a much better effect. It's the same thing with these interest rates. So these are now some solutions that could further improve this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140823	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140824	I thank the Vice-President, Secretary of State Uhlir, here we have before us a Law on subsidising housing loans that we can say in 2017 and as we have heard so far in your opening presentation, a little more than 5,300 demands have been made in accordance with this law. In 2017 half of the total amount of annuity was subsidized in the first 4 years of the repayment of loans, and since 2018 we have actually passed in a way that subsidises part of the monthly annuities in amounts depending on the index of urban development, or individual municipalities for the first 5 years, and those as we have seen up to 50 and 51% of that annuity, respectively. What is important in this law and what should be pointed out is that this applies to all those young, younger families up to 45 years old, and those who do not own their own apartment and do not have a house or who sell the same property to buy more because of the need for their own apartment. Similarly, for each member with a disability greater than 50%, the subsidy period shall be extended by 2 years, as well as for each newborn or adopted child, that period shall also be extended by 2 years. The novelty is that this proposal ensures and the right actually to additional subsidise for each of those underage family members or households at the time of submission of this request and for one year. Personally, I believe that this legislative proposal is also a positive measure for all those citizens who, for all those families who can fit into this measure, I have contacted a certain number of people who have consumed the benefits of this law and believe me, almost all of them have only words of praise and positive experiences that are related to this measure. Similarly, I am aware that the resources in the state budget that are foreseen for this measure are also limited, and that, in fact, those who dictate and call this competition by age or by itself, and in this direction can go one criticism, would not call it perhaps a criticism, but rather a suggestion or advice that according to the possibilities and charges and resources in the state budget, and also the interests of the citizens in the years ahead of us are thinking about increasing these funds that are envisaged, especially if monitoring the effects of these measures were determined to have a positive effect, if they were shown to have a good impact on the demographics themselves, on demographic recovery and on the remaining youth in the Republic of Croatia, especially in those areas that we are most frequently mentioned here today, and these are those areas which, by the index of development, are the most underdeveloped and which they are actually demography, and there is also not only one possible for the long term, that there are not only the possibility that there would be one possible and that there are more time to be allowed for the budgets, which are not only for longer than the long term. The possibility of funding from as much as 50% of the loan rate, and the fact that it's in these 2 years. More than 500 children born in families who have consumed this measure tell us, in fact, that this measure and this legislative proposal are on the right track, and as far as the Law on Incentive Building itself is concerned, I have already said a lot before me, but I would also like to point out once again that the provision preventing abuse or re-sales and renting apartments that have not been incorporated into a legal solution so far, for those apartments of course that have been bought at more favourable prices, and in fact there is an injustice that has been, so far, we can say, not envisaged in the bill itself, and certainly just defining deficit interests, i.e. personnel who are key to a system of incentives or stimulating housing, this is an extremely important and commendable measure, in particular that individual professions, individual occupations become deficient not only in certain areas of our country, but in fact practically in the entire area of our beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140825	We have three replicas, a respected representative of the Goddess Macar, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140826	Dear fellow, I volunteered for the replica right at the beginning when you spoke about the measure for different subsidisation according to the development index, which is from 31 to 50%, so I wanted to ask you for your position since we heard different opinions, but in your later presentation you actually proposed some other measures related to more intensive construction and use of these measures precisely in these rural areas. We're all in favour of a more even development of the entire Republic of Croatia, and when we come up with such measures that should just help those areas that are most vulnerable, and I agree that we need to find more measures, then there are already some problems, everything that colleagues have said earlier that there are more needs here, but I think, and you've said that we should right now. in these areas, work on it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140827	The Honorable representative of Liposjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140828	... In fact that we understand and agree on this, this subsidisation is such a model that, in fact, this legal solution is not the only law, is not really the only package or measure that tries to solve the even development of our beautiful, we have a number of other laws, from the Law on mountainous mountainous areas, the Law on assisted areas that also recognises problems, offers some other burning problems in those areas, and as I said in my own presentation, I hope that, in the future, we will, in line with the filling of the state budget and these measures that are before us, see no reason why we would not change them again and alter them if they go in a positive direction, in the direction of improvement for all those living in those areas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140829	Thank you. Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140830	Dear fellow, here you are talking about encouraging housing in undeveloped areas, but you mentioned that it would be good to have an impact monitor, here, I agree with you here. So, on the trail of what I was saying in my debate, I'd be interested, for example. when a subsidy to the development index was introduced on the last amendments to the law last year, then one of the arguments was that apartments are mainly bought in developed areas, so in centres, in large cities, mostly in Zagreb, and that by that measure according to the development index, by the percentage of the development index, it is introduced to encourage the purchase of apartments in those less developed areas. Here, I wish we'd gotten a report today of how many more apartments have been purchased in the last year precisely in these undeveloped areas after the introduction of that change into the law, so we'd know if that change was justified or not a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140831	The Honorable representative of Liposjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140832	Thank you. Well, here's the key actually lies in that word you said “incentived, ” and I don't think this measure will encourage young families to buy apartments or provide housing in such areas, especially underdeveloped areas, but it can only make it easier for them. This law does not solve problems, neither does it deal with employment policy, labour market regulation, banking policy or the like. I think that when the conditions for employment are met, when the labour market is settled, then such legal proposals will actually facilitate the purchase of apartments, housing and family-based housing for all those young people who choose to live in these less developed areas, and expect that this measure as alone and as such will be the only one that will encourage someone to stay there, I don't think it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140833	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140834	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Lipoščak, one question I would like to highlight, is that, when it comes to assisted areas, areas of special state concern, to help young people through the purchase of construction material, but by reducing VAT on construction material. I believe that the government should take a good position in this proposal and thus help young people through the kind of housing to enable and pay a smaller VAT on construction material.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140835	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Goran Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about this law or attempts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make some demographic moves that would stop our citizens from moving out of Croatia with the idea, with certain efforts we should always look at and what result we have received. So, as my colleague Djujic said earlier in his debate, and cosmetic changes, i.e. changes to the laws that take place every year and where certain rates of interest are adjusted, etc. They're okay, nobody can be against it. But when we look at the results over the past year or two, since the law was passed, then we have to say that, unfortunately, we are not satisfied with the results because the departure of people is evident in the Republic. So it is certain that in the past 2.5 years since the government of Andrej Plenkovic left Croatia hundreds of thousands of our citizens. Now, the question arises if these proposals are good, if they invest a lot in young families, under no. 1. why people leave Croatia and No. 2 Which is why the demographic picture and these families that remain in Croatia is such that fewer and fewer children unfortunately we have, the less and less the school fills with and with children, and therefore we have no concrete results when it is so well designed and well done. The answer is very simple and obvious. So it's not important to just make a measure where you're going to fuck someone's way of buying an apartment. Or the house. Because it's not easy, colleagues and colleagues, to raise a 100 thousand-euro loan and pay for it and pay for it if you have a family and if you have a salary of 4 or 5 thousand kuna. This will very rarely be decided by someone because they simply will not have enough money to serve their financial obligations. And that's why we have a situation where this measure was used, I think 5 grand of our fellow citizens, 5 grand, and we know how many years of families are leaving. So over 100,000 families have gone, and 5 grand has been using the measure. And you see what a imbalance that is. So, the move made by the government and the people who left the Republic of Croatia. So the key to keeping people in the Republic of Croatia is no. 1 create the conditions that you have a fair job and that you get a fair salary from which you can live. 2. Many people and with such pay will not have the opportunity to buy their housing unit, i.e. real estate, but something needs to be done to arrange the rental market in the Republic of Croatia. That we have long-term rentals. Which is why people, if they didn't want to buy it, which is why people would buy a 100 thousand-euro property and pay a monthly war for it, I don't know, three, four thousand kunas 20 and a few years, which is why they wouldn't rent a ten-year apartment and pay 1,000 kuna for it. Well, that would be three times cheaper, and that way we could have a better life. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, we are not thinking about this problem at all, nor is this market arranged except in the part that renters, of course, should do so, if someone is making income on real estate, should be taxed, should be paid in this way, as well as for any other business, but I think that the key to the solution for the housing of our people in the Republic and the cheaper the care, not in that they buy the property after that, but to allow them to live and live as cheaply as possible. And that's something the ministry should think about. So, on the side of construction, on the side of new properties, new houses, new apartments, it's nice to have it, but simply our people don't have money for it, as long as the salaries in Croatia are as they are. And the wages are, let's face it, none, and people who hire rarely get paid like I just said about 5,000 kuna, and here the whole story ends up about someone getting into a subsidized loan without family help, without the help of more or more people, it's just not possible. As long as Croatia's salaries do not increase at least 30, 40%, of course, it is not possible without one systematic tax reform that will go on to disburse the economy so that it can pay such salaries without systematic reform to create and encourage businesses and industries that create high added value so that it can also pay salaries, not that what is done unfortunately in our administration, which is that red tape, that people like that in the inspectorate of the new 500 people, as long as it is so, dear colleagues and colleagues, there are no higher salaries in the Republic, and there is no way that people can earn honest work with a fair wage, from which they can live most normally. And on that side I, here, I simply can't be against the changes that will allow at least someone to come to some real estate more easily and that perhaps some family might decide to stay in Croatia. These are individual cases. It's a very small number of people. We have hundreds of thousands of people leaving. And now we may be able to help a few dozen who might change their attitude. As long as we don't have the possibility of where the salaries will rise, because people leave Croatia because not hundreds or two hundred kilometers, but 10 or 20 kilometers from Zagreb or from their home, in Slovenia they can earn twice as much pay for the same job. How is this possible in Slovenia, and why is this not possible in Croatia? Unfortunately, the government that is now managing the country does not think about how to reduce tax burdens, how to enable entrepreneurs to pay higher salaries, how to properly target subsidies, but to think about whether and how they will hire 4 hundred or 5 hundred people, the State Inspectorate. So this is the focus of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ. Unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about it with these changes to the law. I don't even condemn the promoters of the Department of Construction, they may have a noble intention, but it's like you're fighting a windmill or you're trying to put out a fire, and you actually have a bucket of water. There's no canadre, no system solution to stop that fire, that monster in the Republic of Croatia, and it's a monster. Demographic problem, the departure of people, the reduction of the number of our fellow citizens, especially the working skills of our people, because we are studying unfortunately in the Republic of people for some other countries, and not for our country and people are not leaving because they might want to, but because they have an extremely large sense of injustice, inability and inability to meet their personal ambitions and perspectives in their country. No one left Croatia or very few people went because they were well here, so they went somewhere else, but they all go because they don't feel they can achieve what they should have in Croatia. I'm saying, five thousand people who used, and look at the data on the number of newborn children in those families. So five hundred. So every 10th, that's what it tells you, young families don't decide on children and don't have newborn children because if they already have a family with one or two children, they know that they can't serve with their salaries that credit and life that would be worthy of a man and that would allow their children to have the most essential things. So let me finish. As long as we don't solve this honest pay problem for honest work, that our people can live on it, any law of this type, they'll only solve certain cases and unfortunately we won't solve the biggest one, and that's a demographic wasteland in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140837	We have a number of discussions. Replica, excuse me. The first is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140838	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you pointed out among other things as one of the problems of implementing these pay measures, so in your debate, you said that young people with 2 and a half, 3 thousand kunas can't afford to serve this loan and you're right, but there's one piece of information that says that neither the young couple who both work and have a salary of 6.7,000 kuna, means together about 10, 12, if they bought it, for example, the car they need to do the job, are no longer creditworthy and can't lift a loan of 100,000 euros that is foreseen by this measure at all. That is why demographic policy and keeping young people in Croatia require broader measures of demographics that you mentioned, but the key is pay. And a fair salary for fair work and until this changes, no other measures will be encouraging for young people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140839	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140840	Thank you very much, Vice President, I don't know if the problem is that we don't have any more proposings in the assembly because Mr. Secretary of State has left the assembly. Yes, yes, but it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure, I just wanted to point out that it doesn't last long. [[/Intruder: He, it's not a problem, but he'll be back, don't worry.]] And as for Mr. Djujic's debate, I'd just like to draw your attention to one thing. So today, during the debate on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the HDZ, we have not heard a single reference to any regret or problem of leaving hundreds of thousands of people from Croatia during the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ. Not in a single word, we're just boasting about some of the god-awful results, suggestions. Suggestions don't give you results. I'd like to give the results and if we had the chance to say no, no, we stopped leaving, maybe even This year and some more people came... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140841	The next replica of the respected representative Sabine Glasovac, please welcome But you've run out of time. [[I'm sorry, I didn't finish the sentence.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140842	While I warned you there was no Mr. Secretary Okay, okay, thanks. [[Intruder: It is irrelevant, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140843	My fellow Glasnovec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Maras, you've been doing something about the effects of the subsidisation of housing loans, and you've found that it has not stopped the wave of emigration of young people from Croatia. You are partly right because unfortunately this package of tax laws that we adopted in 2017 was passed without an estimate, a previous assessment of the effects of the regulations. Thus, it was said that after two years, it would only be seen what the measure had taken, but what is seen on the first one is that there is a huge disproportionate between the measure to eliminate the tax relief on the purchase of the first real estate and this introduction of the co-financing measure of the first real estate purchase and that it is also seen at first sight that the government's intensity that the real estate market has actually failed only in one instance, which is that the real estate prices have increased to heights. So I don't know what to say. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140845	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140846	Thank you, dear colleague Glasovac, it is clear that this is taking money from one pocket and transferring it to another pocket very clearly means if you take off the relief you had for the first real estate that has covered a wide range of people and has allowed people to get cheaper to some real estate, and on the other hand you subsidize interest and you have said that it is very likely that this amount is much higher on the side of this tax or the release of 2% for the first real estate and that disproportionately it turns out that the government takes more on citizens than it does, and the only thing we have achieved with this measure is that we may have subsidised and allowed to take more credit from Croatian banks means the greatest benefit here than our young citizens or citizens have had from Croatian banks, and that is obviously something that is very clearly visible from these results.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140847	The next replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140848	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you have spoken of the same thing about some of the effects of this law and mentioning first and foremost the reference to one of these goals that is actually the main goal of the adoption itself and the previous basic law is to view it as a demographic measure. However, what happened last year when the law was changed was then introduced also the provision by which the applicants were viewed and from where they actually came from and the subsidisation by the development index was introduced. However, when you look at the analysis, it is very questionable how much there actually was an increase in the approval requirements and actually those who wanted subsidisation from those areas in the first, second or third groups because they actually only ate enough housing actually where it's really hard to live or maybe something else. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140849	Dear Representative Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and I'm still breaking the Rules of Procedure. I'm just warning you that I hope you'll respond at some point, and I'm asking you to pay attention to what I said at the beginning. So if we don't solve the cost of housing, then it's not necessary to take a loan to have a real estate that will earn the most defacto builder, or not the most, but will probably make the most money from the banks, and something will earn the builder, and you will spend your whole life or 25 years paying 3 or 4,000 kuna per month. It would be great if for 25 or 30 years you could be on a regulated market renting apartments and paying 1,000 kunas a month because that's how much you're going to pay both interest and interest anyway. So instead of paying interest to the bank, you make the real estate market come to life in a way that rents an apartment Somehow subsidize or allow people to live worthyly for 1,000 kunas. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140851	Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140852	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Maras, encouraging housing needs to achieve more goals, unfortunately we have failed, and the problem is when we talk about public money and control of public money spending, then that is the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia. From large infrastructure projects such as the railway from Dugi Sel towards Križevci further towards Koprivnica and to the promotion of housing where the basic goal was not achieved, which is that the local self-government unit of municipalities and cities with their land enter the project, that they take advantage of this land, put it into operation and thus enable people to reach a housing solution. Instead, it happened that the contractor was also the seller of the land, instead of local self-government giving land then bought from a privateer who was also a performer, it was in a number of cases. And not to mention, in general, public procurement that is not controlled at all by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140853	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140854	Believe Mr. Sagar that most of these measures that are proposed here, especially encouraging housing and subsidising interest rates for purchases, for the purchase of property for young families from 1 to 100, 1 is a benefit for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and 99 is a benefit in saying in one case the owners of the property that are then put into operation or sold so that POS apartments can be built or banks that then lend credits so that people can buy these loans. Tell me why instead of the interest rate on the bank, people would pay rent on the real estate market, and instead of 3,000 kuna, they would pass at a cost of 1,000 kuna a month. If the government were to think this way, I am sure that the conditions for living and staying young families in Croatia would be much more favourable than they are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140855	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140856	Thank you Vice President, you've made a lot of money, you've put your money into a business, you've put it into a budget that you've been using for years, and I'm asking you now, you've been doing very well, you've been doing politics for years, I'm asking you, do you know how many parafiscal duties an entrepreneur has, how he can raise wages, of course, I can say that there have been entrepreneurs who haven't done it properly and this government has raised GDP to 3%, we've had a surplus of almost 4 billion if there were no losses in the Uljanica, I think it's going well and this incentive of housing is certain that no one has done so far. So I'm asking myself a question, while you're drawing budget money and will you invest your money in a company that will raise the standard of Croatian citizens tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140857	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140858	Thank you very much. My fellow Mouse, I will answer one back question, this is your mouse-mouse discussion and the question is almost impossible to answer. So you're talking at one point about parafiscal intrusions and then you switch to GDP and then you talk business, look, I believe, and I hope you're not the kind of business you're working in, I know you have a service of household appliances. So if you are in this business, no one will fix the fridge or the cooker, because simply people will be confused, you have to stick to the one, have a constant or build some trust with your consumers. It's very likely that because you're doing so you ran off into politics, though over the Living Wall in HDZ, it was probably one of the reasons why you left the business because a mouse like this doesn't even go through business and your company probably got into trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140859	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140860	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. So I called in an individual debate to list a few more arguments... which contribute to this legal solution, i.e. this model of subsidisation of dwellings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to last year's data, there were around 19,000 apartments in Croatia or in the purchase, and according to data provided by the ministry in this explanation, a total of around 2800 were sold to me last year, so 1/6 of all the apartments sold in the Republic of Croatia came from this model. So this is commendable because it makes it clear that this law nevertheless sets out certain criteria that do not allow every citizen of the Republic of Croatia to enter this system because these are restrictions in terms of the number of years and when it comes to the price of the apartment and when it comes to the total amount of the apartment and when it comes to the possession of other properties, etc. Thus, this law is primarily intended for young people who qualify to enter this system of subsidized savings. It is clear that the assumption of entering this model is in a certain way a resolved workplace at an indefinite time because it is one of in any case, one of the assumptions that it is possible to return to the credit war properly but it should certainly be pointed out that by this law and this government model or state, it is quite generously reacting when it comes to solving the most important life issue, one of the most important issues of life, and that is, in any case, resolving the housing issue. So as I said on behalf of the club, on a 100 000-euro loan which is the maximum that can be entered and the funds for the purchase of the apartment, in 5 years in one environment, the unit of local self-government that is in IV. Or V. category, it's an amount of 14,000 euros, it's very much said a generous measure that allows when a loan is taken, indeed by the state, to provide the young family with the means to practically fully equip the apartment and we know when the young family at the beginning of their common life buys an apartment, that it is necessary, in addition to the credit for the purchase of the apartment, to get the funds and to equip the apartment, which in this way really is the state's response. In my earlier presentation, I said that it would be good if the government didn't limit this model to just 2 years, 2019 and 2020, so let it be permanent, this model should be permanent because it is obviously a great interest for young people to take this measure. I know when the law was passed the first time in 2011 when we carried out the measure, 1,000 families applied in two weeks. Last year, if I'm not mistaken, I think four weeks, four weeks. Almost 3,000 requests came and they were all processed and solved. Therefore, there is obviously a great interest in young Croatian families and citizens to enter this system and I would not limit it, so here until the second reading, let the Government consider that this law is not just said, limited to 2 years, because this measure is obviously interesting and helps a number of young families, therefore, would not be a good thing to limit. This measure and this model also served other units of local self-government that they are trying to react similarly to a specific category of their citizens, and would especially highlight the city of Dubrovnik model. The city of Dubrovnik is similar to this model, headed for the realisation of its apartment building, to enable young families in Dubrovnik to resolve housing issues. We know that the prices of the property in Dubrovnik are very high prices of the apartment are very high, but one measure that the city of Dubrovnik has made very good, and that is that they will build a certain number of apartments and then put them on the market, young... It will allow families to rent these apartments at a maximum amount of 1500 kn per month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And after 10 years, they are allowed to buy these apartments by law, i.e. to buy them, and the rent, i.e. the rent they paid in those 10 years, is included in the future price of the apartment, so that is also an extremely good measure, which here, I say, allows certain units of local self-government to go into the realisation of such or similar housing. I must say, in addition to this measure stemming from the subsidized housing model, in addition to the socially stimulating housing, there was another measure, which is still in force, which is the House Savings Act. That law was passed in '90. He's been through 20, 2 years, I think, changed several times. It was also a fantastic measure, the House Savings Act, where there was also a state incentive for saving, young people, but it was not necessary for them to be young people, who, apart from interest, made it clear in the end that one incentive, which significantly supported that savings and then would be, practically made possible through that housing savings facility, to raise loans with very favourable interest. We're saying today that in the social promotional housing, we're going to lower the interest to 2%, and I'm holding, therefore, that in the House Savings Act, later and the loans, which were raised in these housing savings, 10 years ago, that interest was after 2.5 2.6 to 2.8%. It is a model, which has grown quite well and is largely in force in Central European countries, Austria, the Czech Republic is very large loans and the loan passes through residential savings, in us lately, since it has been reduced, that incentive that the state gave the subsidy, which the state gave to the stakes that the citizen had paid up to 5000 kuna or already as much as it was reduced is then not so challenging that model, but, I say, it seems to me that in 2013 it was reduced on two occasions by a reduced amount of state, which was at the beginning of 1500 kn, seems to me to be at 5000 kn. Therefore, there were a number of measures to go after, to allow more favourable rates than those on the market to reach their own apartment and resolve the housing issue. Of course this law is one of the demographic measures. I'm glad to hear, for example, it's 2017. If I'm not mistaken, that in the team, that those families, who bought apartments by this model, were born about 250 children, which in a certain way, then gave all these families another 2 years of subsidisation. Well it's not little in a family with 3 or 4 children, if the loan was raised to 15 years, almost, all the time the state subsidized that war, which is very good and it's to greet practically. This is a rather clear and demographic measure that rewards families that have more children, even in this way, but we cannot expect this law to address all issues of demographic policy in Croatia. That's why there are other ministries, there are other measures, this government measures and implements them, so I said just now with the pension reform. I also have an increase in maternity benefits, also with construction, and I have 500 kindergartens. Whether it is an upgrade or a construction of new kindergartens, an extension of the scope of children who are entitled to a child's allowance, therefore, a lot of measures, demographic measures are done by this government, and so is this law, but I also observe this law within the framework of this demographic measure, but also as part of the promotion of housing in Croatia. Because we know when we encourage housing, to encourage construction, to draw along a number of other complementary activities that are then clearly expanding, which are employed and thus contribute to raising our fellow citizens' standards. So, here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140861	Thank you. We have more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140862	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. If you consider this measure to be good and if everything works beautifully in the Republic of Croatia, what makes it a fact that it has left us for the past 2.5 years over two hundred thousand of our fellow citizens? Here's one particular question, let's see what the problem is then, what's going on, why these measures don't result? Why don't people stay in the Republic of Croatia, why are we filling Ireland, Germany, Austria and other countries with our most quality people? Why do people flee the Republic of Croatia and the country run by the HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic? Just give me one concrete and over-reply answer? Give it to the citizens who expect it from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140863	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You probably weren't in the assembly when, on behalf of the SDP Club, Boris Lalovac, your colleague, praised the law, supported the law itself, even made certain proposals, so that in a very sober, clever way, in the name of the SDP Club, he spoke to Boris Lalovac, thanking this law, because as I recall, he, along with me, participated in writing the law and then supported as an employee of a business bank in the Republic of Croatia, so much as the SDP thinks about this law. As for yours, these replicas might be the question you should ask yourself. In fact, while you were a minister, many young Croatian citizens left Croatia at that time, there was no law, they left and there was no law. Thus, this question may first be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140865	Thank you. You're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with my colleague Maras? What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140866	The 238th article was injured, my colleague Bacic spoke in response to a replica about something that I had not talked about at all. So I've been looking for an extra answer, which is why people are leaving Croatia now. Let you go, Mr. Bačić, which is why since 5 or 15 or 20 years ago, why today People are leaving Croatia, this was a question Mr. Bacic does not want to answer. [[Intruder: This way, no injured Rules of Procedure and you know it very well and you get a reminder.]] he has no answer to that question, unfortunately there is no answer to that question. [[Intruder: Yes, yes, well, but you cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140867	Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. You've got one warning now, please. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140868	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to ask you a specific question. Do you think it was a better model of incentives when it was a 50% measure for all of Croatia independently of Croatia's territory or now that you have introduced a development index? Because according to this development index, for example, the credit subsidy in Gospić is about 36%. Now I'm wondering if you're okay with that? Have you developed an area where young families should not have a 50% subsidy or perhaps should? Because is this, will you make an effort, as president of the HDZ Club towards the government, to return 50% of the subsidy for all of Croatia? While it was, as it was while this ministry ran the HDZ, so as Kuščević's support was 50%, then the HNS raced into the government came Štromar, and now 36% in Gospić. So, I'm interested you'd be willing to make an effort to get back to when HDZ ran this ministry, or what do you think a better model is?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140869	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140870	I thank Mr. Vice President, this measure was taken before Mr. Kuštević, in 2011 I was then a minister, and then I can answer you very clearly. It was then, then it was 50% to 4 years, and now it's addiction to the development index for 5 years. When it is coupled about to come, somewhere on the same, however, it should be added that at that time when the original law was in force there were no additional measures, which is 2 years for the child to be extended, the period on which the interest is subsidized is extended, then the war is subsidized, and eventually more by this law the money is allocated, because in the rule of young families that, during the time, during the duration of the loan must, or generally, have children and receive refunds and are then extended to them for more than 5 or 7 or 9, 11 years, and by this change we have even gone towards families who, at the time of the withdrawal, have children, are then extended to them only the time of subsidisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140871	Dear representative Sanja Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140872	So here is my colleague Bačić, I am pleased that you have highlighted the model of Dubrovnik's apartment that works on the model of defence housing in the city of Dubrovnik, but it should be noted that in Dubrovnik there is a lack of living and construction area, that the city of Dubrovnik invests in infrastructure in the surrounding areas of the city so that it further demographically entangles and thus raises the standard of life and citizens who in the surrounding areas. As for infrastructure, it is therefore extremely commendable and can serve as a model and other units of local self-government to invest from the city budget, therefore, in the infrastructure to the buildings that serve for this purpose, i.e. POS building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140873	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140874	I thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Putica that you have pointed out, one thing I have missed to say, which is that at this point in the space of Mokosica apartments are being built for the needs of the defenders together in this building are also part of the Ministry of Defence and this model, that defenders will pay 1,500 kuna/maximum 1,500 kuna per month, and that after 10 years, they will have the right to buy that apartment, and that 10 years of paying the rent is also saying that this is really a great measure that the city of Dubrovnik has devised. Especially because the price of apartments in Dubrovnik is expensive and this way the city of Dubrovnik and when it comes to this position on Mokošica, but also since Solitud will allow a significant number of young Dubrovnik families to resolve their housing issue in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140875	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140876	Thank you Vice President Bacic, colleague Bacic, this investment and subsidies of these apartments this government has really designed and I think it's the only thing that is, not only one of the best things to date, that any government in us has done. Looking at the interest rate at one time was 6.7% and up to 10%, today it's 2.5% to 3%. The rating of the state has grown, I think this is one, one good opportunity for the Croatian state, and what colleagues say in the assembly that it went down 200,000 people by the guilt of this government, I would say by the guilt of all governments to this day, of all governments that didn't take account, and of entrepreneurs who kept their workers on the minimal. This is one good thing and I can say as an entrepreneur that thank God, that a lot of young people have already made houses, apartments and solved problems with these loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140877	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, you have rightly linked the interest rate to this law, but also the interest rate when buying apartments that are purchased on the market and which are not subsidized with GDP growth. When we started in 2011 and when we invited the banks to make their most favourable offers with which APN will then be able to do business and enable the purchase of apartments, it was the lowest interest rate at that time and it was over 4.5%, so it is talking about the position of the state at that time, today, I think that for last year, I am not sure, I can check it, but more than 1.5% of the credit rate fell to the credits that are taken according to this model, which means that GDP growth has contributed to the state's credit rating and then it has a consequence at the interest rate and in these loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140879	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140880	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, you mentioned one of the conditions in general that a person can get credit and that is a job indefinitely. However, because of the public, we must mention one significant difference between rural spaces and urban spaces. So in your discussion, you talked about selling apartments, and you mostly had a tendency to live in apartments. However, when we talk about building houses that are primarily in rural areas, then you have one other danger to people because when you buy apartments, you can have as an insurance instrument the property of a bank on that apartment, but when you build a house you can't because you can't, the bank won't register with something that hasn't been built yet. And then it's also one of the more difficult circumstances for people to get credit at all and how to participate in this programme. And that is why both the secretary of state and ultimately the entire ministry and the government should think about it because all of it is one-tenth of the share of building houses in the overall incentive of the subsidisation of this apartment building.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140881	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are right fellow Zhagar to reduce, i.e. it is a significant less interest in subsidising loans for the construction of family homes but it is good that the law foresees this and that the law leaves the possibility for new constructions that have a building permit to be granted a subsidized loan. For a time, for a time in the first model that was other than subsidisation was a state guarantee. So that's when it was called the Subsidized Loans Act and State Guarantees. Therefore, the State has in a certain way guaranteed that if something went wrong or wrong and could not repay loans then the State had made a commitment for a certain time that instead, the applicant itself would finance this loan war which the applicant had to repay in the event that he had lost his job, that something would happen, etc., etc. So there were these models, too, but I'm holding that at this point with a law like this and it's settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140883	Thank you. The next replica is a respected representative of the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140884	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you said that this measure cannot solve all the problems and I agree with you here. I don't think the government should have abolished the tax exemption when buying the first real estate, but good as a compensatory measure, you decided to co-finance this loan. But what I don't understand is this. Why can't you give the citizens a clear guarantee that this measure, as you call it, will be implemented among other things and a demographic measure in the coming years. Why are these just short-term plans? Now we know it's going to be 19th and 20th, but you're not guaranteeing that this measure will be of long-term character. Here's what I'm wondering if you can give that guarantee and you've even been a little reserved for explaining your position on behalf of the club of representatives. I wonder why you can't give a long-term guarantee of this measure, you as a party.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140885	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I said on behalf of the club, what you have now repeated, and that is that it would be good if this law had no duration, therefore not to be envisaged as a measure, a demographic measure on the one hand and, on the other hand, a measure to encourage housing in Croatia, not to be limited to 2019 and 2020 alone. And in that sense, I have made my proposal, and it is likely that the government will manifest itself until the second reading to be a lasting measure. I agree with you that measure and cost. You know that, I said for 8,000 apartments it's about half a billion kunas to be set aside to settle it all, but I agree that the measure is good, the model is good and should continue with it in 2021, 2022, although for all those of you who are taking credit this year, that law will be implemented for the next five years, so not only next year because that deadline is so long. And as for sales tax on real estate, it should be stressed that it has been reduced from 5% to 3%, so there is another additional measure towards housing buyers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140887	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140888	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-worker and fellow parliamentary deputies. This model of the law we launched in 2017 has proved to be extremely useful and accepted so far. So today we have over 5 thousand 300 young people who have taken advantage of this day of opportunity, who have requested a subsidy, who have received a subsidy. Over time, the law has proved to be a good measure of keeping young people in the country, through a multi-annual financial incentive that has its own demographic note, and as we heard today, back two years inside this programme we have 500 new children. Although for the third time we've discussed this law, I still find it commendable. It is clear that the law that passes the consultation with citizens, which passes the government, which passes the parliament, until it enters a constant application cannot even show a clear picture. And these changes clearly state that the government of the Republic of Croatia listens to citizens, listens to users of this measure, respects their proposals to make these measures better and better. And here we are today discussing here again, so that all together would make them more acceptable to those end-users. I believe that the ministry should also consider the division of calls for the whole year, i.e. until the projected funds are used for that year. This model that we have today certainly in that one month is doing a massive administrative burden and your ministry and APN and the banks and all together represents a single impact on the real estate market in those months when it certainly and partly increases the price of real estate and ultimately, it is unrealistic to expect that the owners of the apartments will wait for the buyer for several months, which has already proved to be a problem for many people and families. Let's face it, it's not easy to find an apartment that is suitable for our needs, which is our demand for financial opportunities, and especially to find a owner who will wait until September and let's say we found the apartment in March. This was one of my kind of suggestions just to think about it if it can be respected as such and I believe that all of these users would be of benefit. Certainly, the changes you have proposed today in these amendments to the law are considered very good because it is correcting and a kind of injustice towards those who received children before the very conclusion of the contract. In this way they receive an extension of the subsidy by one year if their child is young. We have heard an example here from Dubrovnik, we are also in Osijek-Baranja County moving towards the realization of our mechanism, which aims to further motivate young families to stay in today by unfortunately affecting Slavonia and Baranja, right through a project of co-financing of housing loans with 1%. This measure included certain cities in the county with an additional 1%. And I think this can be a really good example for other counties and other cities and municipalities to find a way and engage in the implementation of this measure to help buy houses or apartments from their area. This is the only way to help solve a housing issue that really represents one of the basic things that we ultimately care about and care about both us and our families, we can help improve the demographic image of our cities, municipalities, counties and ultimately our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140889	Thank you. We've also got a report on your replication. He is the first respected representative of Liposcack.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140890	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned to your colleague Mikulić that for the third time we are actually discussing this law and amendments and that is actually proof that the government is as you yourself said listening to what is happening on the ground, what is happening and what can be fixed. Although in this debate we have heard individuals and think that they hope that this law will no longer be changed and there will be no change, I hope that the exact opposite will be found ways to increase the funds in the budget itself and thus that this measure will be able to extend further, possibly extend and increase the number of its users.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140891	Dear Representative Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140892	I thank you, Vice President. Well, as I said in my debate, a colleague of Lipoščak can't be perfect when it comes out of the Croatian Parliament and of course we should all work to adapt the laws to the situations in which Croatia is located but also to the needs of our citizens. So here's the clue for me within two years for the third time in the debate we have this law, but I believe that every time we debated it and made our proposals that it came out as a better law and as seen in the extreme case and indicators, and in figures that there are increasingly more users of this law and these possibilities offered through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140893	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140894	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned one fact in your presentation, which is that the exposure primarily refers to this Subsidisation Act, that it should be a lasting measure and that the whole competition should take a different duration, because during that month, there is some kind of madness and need for apartments, and then you can't find the right one, you can't apply everything else. I must admit that I really agree that if this is a measure that this measure must then be permanent, that it should be known in advance that people could adapt and then it seems to me that by the way that if the government decides to do this then in a certain way we don't have it anymore and there will be no POS or will be in another form. But what I'm interested in is a view of renting apartments, it seems to me that renting apartments would be a much better model for young people and an opportunity to settle their housing issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140895	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140896	Thank you, Vice President. Well esteemed Taritash MPs, we certainly support both POS apartments and rent as our own form of housing and young and young families, but I think there is a trend in Croatia and somehow a trend that we have inherited just buying our properties and I think there is nothing wrong with it. I think that we too need to make a few opportunities for young people, so let them decide, in accordance with their ultimate financial possibilities, which is most favourable to them and which they want to take advantage of. I would like this measure to really live and live as long a number of years as possible, that our young people have the best starting conditions at the beginning of their lives and simply withdraw this demographic picture of Croatia to some better indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140897	Now we're going to go to the next individual debate and this is the respected representatives of Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140898	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues, fellow Secretary of State with an associate. Well, today there are these two laws that have experienced some changes compared to last year. In my debate, I will mostly touch on this law relating to the subsidisation of credit, although there is something to say to this other law, of course, especially in the section concerning the prevention of abuse, although it seems very difficult to me because when we talk about the law actually, we have to make some other provisions within the law that will force people to comply with laws or not to abuse laws, then we really do enter an area that is restrictive on the one hand, and on the other hand, maybe people will catch on to the fact that some constitutional provisions have been violated. But I would like to say, when it comes to the Law on Loan Subsidisation and Goals that you wanted, you really want to achieve this law, then I really want to say that I believe that you and this Government had very good intentions with the law when you proposed it, when you are proposing these amendments today, and it is certain that this number of citizens, young families to whom, who have sought subsidies and who have been approved, has certainly helped and will certainly help and actually do well. But speaking of him, we still have to mention some things that are controversial, there are certain issues that need to be mentioned because in fact the law itself affects something that is happening in society, creating some new circumstances, creating some new relationships, and it is possible that intervention means countries through this law create some imbalances. Well, now, it would be good if we had really more detailed, detailed, detailed analyses that would answer these questions and give some insight into how the law is being implemented and how the law affects the overall social situation in terms of housing, as far as the price market is concerned, but also as far as the results of this law are concerned, as demographic measures are concerned, because you yourself have said that this law has just been passed with the aim of allowing young families to stay in Croatia, to resolve their fundamental life issue, i.e. The housing issue, to keep people in the less developed areas of Croatia and to actually encourage the birth of children through exactly what you've been saying today. But what's controversial is, it's controversial, but it's actually the fact that it's still about a law that predicts the fastest finger. And that's right. Because in a month you expect or demand that those who are at that moment are the most ready, quickest and who have actually respected in some way the circumstances of life or business circumstances. What does that mean? You're actually asking that man at that moment in the 9th month. He's got an apartment ready. The apartment that has a useful license, which means that most of the time it's an old building, you're asking that we actually have, that the seller is kind of waiting because it's hard for you to get an apartment in August 26th and we say in 15 days there's going to be a competition, so here, just wait a month and we'll sort it all out. That's exactly what the people who were looking for are saying differently. It's just that actually whoever's looking, young people, when they're lucky enough to find a job indefinitely and become creditworthy, they actually have to start looking for apartments, but then they have to come across a seller who's willing to wait, if the buyer wants to subsidize the state. So that's already one, I wouldn't say it's positive discrimination, but it's still about one negative discrimination. Secondly, this is how you shut down all those who want new construction. We know today that new construction has actually been sold for years, years at least a year in advance and that, in fact, up to a useful permit for a building that will be built hardly, if you started in February, it will hardly be realised by September when you start with a tender for subsidies. And it actually puts in an unfavourable position all those people who want to settle their living issue through subsidies and through this incentive, and they want a new building in a certain place. Therefore, I support everything, and I also suggest that we go, if we go further, to think about the competition being over the whole year. The way you would solve it, you should think about it, but it would still balance all those who wanted to come to their housing issue. This way, however, it is questionable what is happening. On the other hand, we are encouraged, so it is said that this law may not have affected the market and the price work, but we cannot say it. We heard from the MPs' club that he's not sure that there's been an increase in prices due to this law, but we can't say that because of this law, it didn't come, that there's been no price hike because if we don't really have an essential analysis. That's really possible. It's possible because it comes to that hole in demand and offers, so all those looking for an apartment are waiting until the 9th month. Especially if they do, and the prices are certainly up in that period, and that's why they can connect to the fact that this law has just affected the increase in the price of the apartments that they are, here you already have for the old construction of 1900 euros, for the new construction I'm not telling you how much it is. I would like to pay attention to the fact, and it has been said that the previous law that allows the first real estate tax to be released, had 12,000 in 2016 12.000 and 320 taxpayers, while of course through this law we now have some at 2 years we have about 5,000 young families. So there's one disproportionate, so I don't know why exactly there was another directive, but there's a disproportionate. And what I finally want to say, and this is about the demographic measures themselves, I would also like to ask you for a clearer analysis, and we will only see after a certain period of time, the years to be subsidized, to implement this law. We will see how many children were actually born in families by encouraging the very subsidisation of loans, because it is crucial, therefore, to keep the family here and expect that there will be an increase in the number of people and new children born through these families. What I would like to ask, I did not hear that, and I would ask you later in the closing statement to tell me whether these today's changes we're talking about will apply to all those who have signed the contracts and whose credit has been subsidized in 2017 and 2018, so those who entered with the children in 2017, 2018, will also be in that position that they too will be extended to subsidisation of the loan, because it seems to me that we will again create one, one injustice. I know that some things may not be retroactive but once again an injustice has been done because you are now went out to meet those who will be in 2019 [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Approve in this way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140899	We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140900	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Alfirev, you have touched several topics in your debate. One of the strong demographic measures is the World Cup in football, and then it's very difficult to tell about the results of this or that, or let's say that in Croatia it decides without electricity to be a few days a year, the effect could be seen. So it should be very careful. So we're also discussing a disturbance in the real estate market, whether or not any intervention that the state introduces is some kind of disturbance, but if you have some kind of ultimate meaning, then it has its own effect. But in the opening part of the exhibition, you touched something that we all forget a little, which is when it was POS, so the POS was developed by the sea for reasons that it was a big price on the market to allow people to get to the real estate and it turned into apartments. About no one even getting in. We're not safe with these measures either. What's it going to turn into, because what our citizens can think of. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140901	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140902	Thank you, colleague Mrak Taritaš, that it is true to me that, unfortunately, some good ideas, good ideas, good measures and laws actually turn into something that shouldn't be and then other measures are being taken that should be prevented, unfortunately then we have to take care of it again, and that is what you yourself have mentioned is whether some other institutions such as the Constitutional Court will decide whether it is investing in the right of ownership of the apartment and the right to private property and what is actually there has the right to the championship. Of course I think we should all actually invite you to respect the law, and I'm saying I support actually to prevent that abuse from happening through this law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140903	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140904	Thank you very much. You are wrong when you pollemise or question whether the prices of real estate on the market have increased by subsidising housing loans. This is an undeniable idea, and wherever you look, whatever official data you will see that the prices of real estate especially in this period prior to the call for tenders grew from 6.73% to 16% in Zagreb. So, for example, in 2017, the price of a square meter apartment was EUR 1,654 which was 24,8% more than the previous year when there was no subsidisation, and in 2017 it increased by some EUR 234. So it's inevitable that real estate prices, real estate prices, which would mean that the state subsidizes interest, but ultimately citizens pay, raise bigger loans because they have to pay more for the apartment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140905	Thank you. Dear Representative Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140906	Thank you, fellow Glasovac, although it is true we should just say that the price of real estate has increased precisely in those cities, it is the eighth group of development indexes, Zagreb, by the sea, so there is a rise in the price of real estate and there has been an increase, but all this has not affected again that the number of requests and subsidies has been reduced. But what is the problem of my colleague, Glasovac, is that still in Slavonia we can buy real estate, for example, the house I don't know about 5,000 EUR, for 15,000 EUR, and even in that or somewhere, you mentioned yourself, say, in Lica there certainly didn't have an increase in the price of real estate, but there is no demand there as much as we would expect through, say, or as much as the Government expects to achieve through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140907	The next is the replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140908	Thank you, Vice President, you said that it would be interesting to see the data, tables and some figures, so here are the figures published on the 2018 Ministry's pages that say that this measure is not an equal opportunity for all, that it has not received results especially in those areas where we want people to live and these are undeveloped rural areas, so only 13 requests from Ličko Senjska County are approved, 30 from Virovitica podravska, 49 from Brod Posavina and 876 from Zagreb. What's he saying? To help those who are creditworthy, who have purchasing power and something else you said, that the tender is only a month, means they have privileged information, that they are able to prepare all the documentation, agree with the bank and with the Ministry. It's not a good message, that we only help some, especially those who are creditworthy, and that's usually the ones who are party-colored, we know whose.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140909	Dear Representative Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140910	Thank you, colleague Vlaović. Yeah, well, you've mentioned another one of our country's key problems now, and that's certainly corruption, and that's something that's been bothering this country for a long time, and lately more and more, it's been seen by different research and indices. But you mentioned what is very important and painful for Croatia, it is precisely that in these areas, low development, even this law, will not actually lead to improvement, because as much as we build, unfortunately and kindergarten, we invest in kindergartens, no matter how much we now encourage housing, through an increase in subsidy rates from Slavonia, from some other, more areas, these areas of people go away. Because something else isn't good, and you mentioned it yourself, it's probably one of the great influences and corruption and what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140911	Thank you very much. The next individual debate, the esteemed representative of Davor Lonchar, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140912	Thank you, Vice President. When it comes to the proposal for the Law amending the law on society-enhancing housing, I must stress that it has seen the shortcomings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e., the Resoring Ministry noticed and therefore wants even better, more effectively,... and faster spend constant care and socially encourage housing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The price difference per meter of a square apartment or house in the Republic of Croatia is evident, where prices are priced through the care programme, compared to the market are much more favourable and allow for cheaper and better construction, and thus the purchase of any apartment or house. What needs to be particularly highlighted is the expansion of territorial jurisdiction, where with the current 185 units of local self-government, from special state concerns, extends to the new 151 which is a total of 336, which includes... of assisted areas in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should point out that it is possible to build apartments and for the purpose of performing public, local services, i.e., personnel necessary for the operation of the service, which are a real need for a situation on the ground, i.e. for the conduct and introduction of certain jobs. In addition, it is possible to donate construction material to repair the construction and upgrade of the housing unit, renting state-owned housing under privileged conditions, in such a way as to allow users of housing, according to the law, to purchase the house or stand on favourable terms, with precisely prescribed criteria, the price for the residential area and the possibility of payment, through one-off or rural payment. Here it should point out that the calculation only accounts for the area of the apartment, not as so far the area of the total area of the housing unit. Special categories of housing are also foreseen, e.g. personnel apartments, victims of domestic violence, extraordinary flood management, fires, rinks, earthquakes and the like. As for the faster procedure, the government has also given guidance on the reduction of the number of documents in the application, where only, where personal ID and proof of the score are now needed, the deadline has been reduced... right purchases from 10 to 1 year, cut deadline... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] real estate, clearer and more transparent and conditions and acquisition of ownership rights, fifthly, the user's detailed obligation is to regularly comply with teaching obligations, sixthly, cooperation between the users of the body of the state administration and the unit of local self-government has been prescribed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this is prescribed, among other things, to encourage demographic recovery and survival in the field of special state care and in areas of assisted areas. Because without new investments, especially POS and assisted areas, there are no new families and no new settles. It should also highlight differences in the price of apartment or house. Or building land, when it comes to the average price built by POS and the price on the market. It is still important to stress that in the current law, customers were not limited to the availability of house or apartment sales and abuses occurred, which is why the new law seeks to stop them by using them exclusively for residential care or housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140913	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Liposchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140914	Thank you so much, colleague Loncar, you are as a longtime, successful leader of the local self-government unit, I consider one of the most invited and most relevant persons who can actually tell us what concrete effects these two laws have passed on the ground. And specifically your position and as municipal chief, what changes will these shifts bring and will they even bring on the ground? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140915	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140916	Thank you, colleague Lipoščak, it is important to note, that if units of local administration provide preconditions, conditions for apartments, care, believe that there are statements, there is an interest in coming to these areas. It is important that spatial planning documentation and when it comes to land ownership is owned by a unit of local administration and thus the units of local administration can offer to their locals, i.e. to those who need housing care. Part of the role this reduction... one apartment or apartment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140917	The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected agency representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here's what you've been up to for two years. a subsidy measure or co-financing of housing loans for young families in Croatia. We must not forget that this measure was created, it was born at the time when the government decided to abolish the exemption of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia from taxes when buying the first real estate. And in order to calm the public at that time, she came up with a way to say that she would deprive the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a way that would allow young families to pay half of the loan rate, then it was announced and implemented for 4 years, meaning for under 45 who raised the loan maximum of 100 000 euros, interest should not have been of 3.75 and the maximum price of squares of real estate had to be 1500 euros per m2 and the subsidy was then for all those who passed that first competition 50%. At that point, the finance minister who represented the entire tax package here, the reform package, aware of the fact that this is probably for the first time in the history of Croatian Parliamentism, that such a significant reform as the tax reform that was included in it at the time seems to me somewhere 8 or 10 laws, did not go through the procedure of assessing the effects of the regulations which is simply amazing, then here after this speaker says that, that the government will make an assessment of the effects of the regulations later, means after 2 years. Here are the two years that passed, we discussed in the Croatian Parliament at the end of 2016 about a package of tax laws, they entered into force in 2017, today 2 years later we can already discuss the effects of this measure. What I'm trying to say is, first of all, I think that the citizens whose tax relief has been abolished in the purchase of the first real estate, the state has not paid off, nor has it been adequately resbursed. Why? Because, on the basis of the suspension of the tax relief, on an annual basis, it has entered the state budget somewhere around 115 million kuna and, on the other hand, it returned that first year through the subsidisation of these loans, let's just say 17,5 million kuna. If we sum up investment in subsidising housing loans in 2017, 2018, and even the projections for 2019, in 3 years you have not returned to the citizens what, not even part of the citizens, means even these 5,000 who were fortunate to receive subsidisation of housing loans, you have not even returned half of what you took to everyone. And that's where I emphasize what you've all taken. So, you have denied tax relief for all to ensure more favourable loans to some or only part of Croatian citizens, and now since 2017, you are working on restrictive mechanisms to reduce the pool even further. I have nothing against this measure to understand, absolutely nothing, I support it, I think it can be better, that it should be stronger, that it should be said something and about it, but it's not good to show things the way they're not. On the other hand here to speak again in the Assembly today, look, we've cut real estate taxes from 5 to 4, so from 4 to 3, yes, but you don't mention that before that you've raised from 0 to 5 and from 0 to 4 and then reduced from that. So you took, so you're talking about a 5 to the 3 reduction and you're not actually talking about that you increased from 0 to the 5, so you're reducing. I mean, it's a little spin, but it's not good at spinamo especially when it comes to these measures that even with everything coming from this government with all kinds of nonsense, missed measures and Podkin's villages actually getting nice presentations but don't contain much concrete in themselves, this is one of the more concrete measures, it's not bad, so let's talk openly and let's talk honestly. So I believe, what I asked a colleague of Bačić earlier, that the government must at least have power if it has not already had this 2 years and guarantee the citizens the permanence or sustainability of this measure. And don't tell me as a colleague Bačić that it costs half a billion, okay, but you've already made almost half a billion dollars on citizens because you've abolished tax relief or tax exemptions on buying the first real estate, so it's not a cost, it's just a return to what was taken from everyone, so okay, we'll give it to some. I think it's a positive thing to go through this law for every child, so it extends extra to a year, means additional lending by one year per child, a member of the household, an applicant who, at the moment of the completion of the contract in subsidisation of the housing loan, has not been completed 18 years, but I'm asking you, why aren't all children in Croatia the same? Why will those who apply to subsidise housing loans this year get an additional year for each child subsidy and those who were subsidized last and last year, their children are probably less valuable, you will only subsidize 4.5, and here you will go to 7.8 depending on the number of children. It's not right and it's discrimination. Just as discrimination is this subsidisation model ranging from 30% to 51%. And I understand what intensity it was, or how you present that intensity. And I think that, yes, rural areas should be encouraged, but there's a lot of illogicalness now that I don't go into detail in that model itself. After all, the profession and the profession say, let's say the president of the Association of Real Estates in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. It says in fact that this reduction in subsidies for developed destinations actually leads to exactly what we have, which is a reduction in the number of applications or applications on loan subsidies, which we can expect this year as well. And in fact, this measure will not have any effect because it narrowed down that target group to an audience that is difficult to afford, affording the stated real estate. What I really want to say is that the government is considering expanding the housing settlement package on a particular incentive. I agree with colleagues who have often pointed out the practice of rental apartments here. For example, it gives young families the use of utility apartments. Maybe we're not Vienna, we may not have that power, but we certainly have some mechanism that we don't have to force every citizen, every family has its own property, but we have to guarantee safe real estate in the lease. Because today, the market for rent is pretty much like the Wild West. And if it were regulated in one way that provides family security, it would be much more cost-effective, much more favourable, we would have a lot more problems and with smaller financial resources we could solve a lot more problems for our citizens. And fourthly, let's think about the sustainability of this measure, about its continuity over the years, continuity over one year not only in these two months, and think about resolving the housing issue and encouraging the deficiting professions, doctors, scientific recruits who are paid, need to meet them, and it's also one of the important demographic measures to keep people who are important to us, who are missing in the system, to manage judicial potentials and do everything we can to keep them in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140919	We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. She's the first respected Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140920	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of the Voice, like this, is not good when a law that is actually presented as one of the demographic measures actually produces additional discrimination when children are concerned. You mentioned one of the discriminations, I'm going to mention something else that, today isn't maybe, I don't know if anyone mentioned it. But it's about that, for example. if for a child, if this year's competition is held on September 15th and one who has received subsidies for a child who will be born 15 days after receiving this and the request will receive two years for that child. If a child is born 15 days before receiving a request for that child, he will receive a year. And there's this discrimination. And that's what these changes actually do today, and those kids compared to 2017 and 2018, and these children who will be born 15 days ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140921	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed voter representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140922	You're right, colleague Alfirev, who's doing this and wrong, let's attribute it to good intentions but to mistakes in steps. I believe that the legislator's intensity was in no way and should not have been discrimination against anyone on any basis and at least children. And let us believe that, until the adoption of this law, certain solutions will be adopted, i.e. to propose and adopt certain solutions that will correct such discrimination because it would not really be, I don't think it is in anyone's interest and at least the legislator that something that should have had a noble intention at the end should have been shared by Croatia on some basis simply because someone didn't think forward enough, left, right and predicted some difficulties that could arise from such proposed solutions. There's still a chance of repairing it, and I expect the government to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140923	The next replica is the esteemed MPs, Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140924	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, at the beginning of your debate, pointed out that the state has taken more than it has given by abolishing the measure of not paying a real estate tax in the acquisition of the first real estate. I'm sure you know that real estate tax isn't revenue from the state budget, so the state didn't take it to compensate for it then by these other measures because real estate tax is the income of local self-government units. So that's what they have. And in any case, I agree with you in the part where you talk about the sustainability of this measure and that you really should think about it because this is a good law, good measures, and they should remain permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140925	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140926	You are right, since 2017, all income from sales tax on real estate goes to local self-government units. But look, the end-user, our citizens whom you made an obligation to pay that tax when they bought the property, so by 2017 they had to pay zero and they didn't care if it was going to the state or if it was going to their town. They didn't care because they didn't pay anybody anything. Just like they don't care now when you hit them in the pocket they have to pay 5, 4 or 3% for their real estate. They don't care because that money will go to the state or go to their town or local self-government unit, they have to pay for it and by 2 years ago they didn't have to pay for it, I was talking about it, I may have misstated myself, but what Balasevic would say "the principle is the same, all the other shades," you taxed them, where it goes, it doesn't matter to them, you hit them in the pocket, it goes out of their pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140927	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140928	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Sabina, you said it was not good for the tax relief to be lifted to pay the first real estate tax, and it must have been a significant tax relief and stimulation for young people to resolve their housing issue. It is good that interest subsidisation is also introduced but we now see on credits but from this we see that the state or unit of local self-government has more income than has been invested towards young people, especially not a good schedule because the largest part of the users of this subsidy is seen in Zagreb and in larger cities and what should also be said, that with no agreement the units of local self-government took from their income. First it was 5% and then four, so three percent of the municipalities and cities lost between 200 and 300 million kunas, no compensatory measures, and it was in line with communities of municipalities and cities, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140929	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140930	That's right, my colleague Vlaovic. I know some people who took advantage of this measure and really say that they took advantage of this measure and really say that it is useful for them, that they used this state subsidy for what counterpart Bacic said in his debate on behalf of the apartment equipment club, for example. They had to wait 2, 3 or 4 years for that. But it's unclear to me, maybe I'm a little utopian, maybe I don't know too much, believe in miracles and some ideals. If this is our demographic measure, if demographic policy is one to the pillars of this government, then I don't understand why we can't have sheep and sheep in this case, why we couldn't leave a tax exemption on the first real estate, but for certain target groups of citizens, as we see here that we are narrowing down, that we could also encourage their loans. If it's one of the pillaric policies of this government and it is, why couldn't we have done both? It may be utopian, but I would expect it from the government that says that demographic policy is one of their key motor policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140931	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140932	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Generally known that villages have always been an incubator of demographics, I can call it that. The towns have always been crowded from the village, let's remember, whoever poured history is well known to him, when farmers' economies were destroyed, cooperatives were made, etc., rounding up for the first time land, so one family's destruction of demographics was destroyed and it was dependent on the number of lunches with the famous saying, "give God a lot of lunches and undo those others." Why? The cities, the industrial-building, the rustling of the empty village and we are witnesses again, I know that these benefits will not be used by those in rural areas because there is too many empty houses, not on the parallel roads, but on the main roads, all in the dark, we can say that there are no municipalities and municipal employees to heal everything in the weeds. I am, these days very happy because, namely, my son and daughter-in-law have already changed in Germany, they have got another apartment, so with the equipped kitchen, a complete inventory, and it's very convenient, so they've come to one institution to sign up for an apartment, there was a lady sitting inside, you asked in marriage, yes, you're planning children, yes, where you work, here and there, they've got the other apartment, 500 meters from the clinic in Augsburg where they both work. I wonder if that would be possible in Croatia. I wonder what they know and use and what we don't know and don't use, what's so much better with them and it doesn't work with us. Why? Why is that? It was not difficult to read, but we encourage demography, here says the proposed law regulates the following issues, the first point, the possibility of a special programme to help resolve the housing issue of citizens who buy apartments on the free market and is one of the options for resolving the housing issue of protected tenants under the Law on renting apartments, especially for apartments currently used and the consequences that law will result, once again, in helping to resolve the housing issue to a larger number of citizens of particularly protected tenants. So why, for God's sake, the first point, the first guess, and theirs? Protected by tenants who, for hundreds of years, all the benefits, all the protection and all the favors in society, why them? If we go to demographics, let's encourage some others. Some young people who'll move in. Is it possible that these protected tenants still in that protected property have not been able to reach any other property or may have two and three further away that is not on them? Will they profit most in this story with this law? I know that those in my Jarmina, in my Costs... They won't, neither will Gunja, I say Mrak-Taritash 10.7.2012. The ban on solicitation is lifted for 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's this about? Now there was a provision in the law that says that since 10 years of age it's been a ban on alienating such apartments. What we need to know is that so far, 21% of these apartments have been paid up to now. I can only assume that those 21% who were able to pay off their apartments first, is it possible that those who bought apartments in Dalmatia for rent and who did not live in those apartments, but they enjoyed it at that moment because many who in all the competitions that take place in this country knew in advance what was going on so many took advantage of it. And don't be lazy, I'm a little sorry that she came out, usually when I check in, she runs out because she knows what I'm going to tell her, so says Anka Mrak-Taritash, as a minister in 2013, ordered APN to buy land for the construction of POS apartments in Osijek by as much as 340 euros per square, even though the market price is 40 euros per square. And Mr. Radimir Cacic, former Minister of Reconstruction and the person who first built cheap POS apartments, said that it is all about crime, and that the basic purpose of encouraging housing is cheap apartments and not charging prices and extra profits, etc., etc. I'm saying the latest unpleasant affair that could shake our distinguished colleague Taritas even more seriously and is related to the construction of 38 POS apartments. It turns out that APN, the APN, has been ordered to buy land in Osijek's Shadow at a price of 340 euros per square, although the highest price that can still be found on the sniffer today is 7 times smaller. So then it enters my eyes again in Gunja, when the respected former minister says with superhuman efforts we managed to reduce the price of squares of reconstruction in Gunja. The last house in Gunja to the forest where the bus keeps turning is not going, are further wild pigs that will bring us and the plague to Slavonia, and we will move many of them because of it. 1700 euros square meters of reconstruction. So he doesn't have to buy land, he doesn't have to build foundations, he doesn't have to build, he just needs to invest a little bit in isolation, search the roof, wet the foundations, and it's moving. How is it possible that, with superhuman efforts, it dropped to 1700 euros a square when in Vlaska Street where her son has a penthouse worth what? 2000 euros, 300 euros just more. Imagine Vlaška and imagine Gunja turning the bus in front of the woods. Who makes a fool of who? They made us, they'll keep making us. It's just a question of when someone's gonna say there's no more money for anyone. I think I've made myself clear to you, I know I'm coming across a misdemeanor, but it's a message from the field, no one in the cell will get any of this or in my Slavonia because they've all moved out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140933	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140934	Thank you very much. Mr. Culey, you've covered all of this except for the topic we're discussing, but it's really hard for me to connect your thoughts, so I'd like you to explain a little bit more. So what does POS's apartments have to do with protected tenants, with works in Gunja and Vlaška Street in Zagreb. So that link is very difficult to follow, and on the other hand, I don't know when you're talking about POS's apartments and the price of real estate that you directly attack the secretary of state sitting in your government, then deny your government's support. Here's a colleague, Uhlir, who's been in charge of POS's apartments for as long as we've known about them. So you attacked him directly. And on the other hand, I don't understand what's wrong with you, protected tenants, people who aren't their own fault found themselves in a situation where they're in a position where this government is driving them out into the street without finding them too much of a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140935	Dear Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140936	I'm not in any party, and I'm not answering any games here, perhaps you, Mr. Maras. But I will tell you, because of all of you who sat in the Croatian Parliament and made decisions in each of your terms, which you were ministers without knowing any ministries or what you were doing, which is your purpose. It's all gone because of these.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140937	The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140938	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned the villages, probably our Slavonic empty, so you said demographics in the villages, of course the children were always, there were most of them in the villages where they were working and where they ran. Of course we can talk about it, but I'm afraid it's already too late, but I have to tell you the truth, this government isn't to blame. All governments so far are much, much more guilty. And when you mentioned Gunja, the restoration of Gunja square metre 1700 euros, and what are we surprised about? Was anyone responsible for that? It's not. Is it going to fit? He won't. What are we doing? That's exactly what I'm asking myself. What should this people expect? These measures, I have to say they were good, but maybe they were too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140939	Thank you. Dear Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140940	Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, who is a great expert in all those jobs she has done as a minister and all the duties she has performed as a minister and all the duties she has performed, she was very well aware of what she is doing and when she was doing legalization and which was a robbery of 840,000 citizens, were the most robbed ones in Slavonia who have arranged land books that are certainly out of date, so full legalisation was illegal and, as far as the renovation is concerned, I repeat, 1700 euros m2 in Gunja, ranging from 2,000 euros in Vlaška, smart enough, we don't have to talk any further about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140941	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State, Zeljko Uhlir, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140942	Thank you very much. I thank you sincerely to all the participants of today's debate, for the first reading of both laws. From these measures, I hope today has been mentioned several times here in the debate that it is visible that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning is taking all the effort to help citizens resolve the housing issue, of course, within the framework of fiscal opportunities. Without a doubt, all those who deal with this problem, and we in the ministry and probably many of you, know that in many developed countries Europe are the same problems of course, improved conjuncture of those countries. In Ireland, apartment prices rose multiple times in Dublin, Germany, Frankfurt, Hamburg, the prices are rising in England. So, connecting these measures of ours that help citizens to resolve their housing issue with the rise of housing prices would be possible if this measure were exactly what some of you could hear today, lasting and unlimited, and in order to be for all their needs. These measures are precisely those affecting a particular group of citizens, targeted at affecting that group of citizens, are limited character and act only on those who really need it most. As far as renting apartments are concerned, it is already available, through POS we have POS rental programmes and in all major projects the rental of apartments is possible, so you know that in Zagreb we have an open rent of apartments which, of course, is already filled but still, the same problem is therefore fiscal opportunities. Everything that is possible is being done, and this is visible from these proposals as we adapt to the situation on the market so that our citizens today and tomorrow can make it easier and more quality to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140943	Thank you very much. I would therefore conclude a debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u140944	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on subsidising residential loans, first reading, P.Z. No. 633. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft Act amending and supplementing the House Loan Subsidy Act is hereby adopted and 1. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the vote 107 FOR, 15 abstentions and 1 against, has reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141133	Now, as we decided this morning, we will move to a united discussion of two of the following points, which is: - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2017. - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The CNB Act, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed governor of the CNB, Boris Vujcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141134	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Deputy President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honors and MPs, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. As announced, I will present two half-years of information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2017 and the first 2018. As was the case before, I will start to look at the most important macroeconomic trends and then move on to the functioning of the CNB during that period. The general assessment of the first half of 2018 is that it was marked by relatively favourable economic trends. Movements in the international environment were mostly positive, with indications of a slight slowdown in economic growth especially among our main foreign and trade partners in the euro area. Personal consumption and exports continued to be the main drivers of domestic economic growth while the more pronounced strengthening of investments remained suppressed. Positive trends have also continued on the labour market where employment growth and unemployment have been recorded, inflation has accelerated somewhat, primarily under the influence of energy prices. The surplus in the current balance of payments account is slightly reduced in the first half of 2018 compared to the same period of the previous year and the indicators are external... They've improved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Extensive monetary policy continued to support economic recovery and improved funding conditions, meaning the long-term decline in interest rates continued and the lending continued to increase slightly, stressing that as you have seen recently, in the CNB we are very closely monitoring the growth of non-intentional cash credits. The fiscal situation, which I will say more later, has further improved or continued to improve. In terms of real movements, economic activity increased by 2.7% at year-on-year, with the most individually contributing to the growth of personal consumption resulting from primarily two factors, one increasing the available income of households and the other continuing the growth of consumer optimism. In addition, a positive contribution continued to come from the goods and services sector, which is of course, a trend that began after Croatia's entry into the EU and continued to date, although as we have been stressing recently its positive effect that we have seen after EU entry is slowly blowing up in terms of the growth rate, which is slowly beginning to fall in line with the experiences of other countries that have entered the EU about 5.6 years after the entry of this initial boost of export growth. As regards employment in the labour market, the already long-term trend in employment has continued, 2.4% year-on-year according to HZMO data and has been widespread with the greatest contribution of the service activities of the private sector and construction. In line with this, the unemployment rate continued to decrease and the average international comparable unemployment rate dropped for the first time below 9% of the workforce. The acceleration of inflation, as I have already said, was primarily due to the rise in crude oil prices, which rose by 17%. We know that this shift in energy prices to domestic inflation rates is fast and significant because two components, one is energy prices and the other are food prices have a significant impact on our basket. The price, i.e. in the basket, prices other than Romania, is the biggest contribution among the EU countries. More on the current and capital account was somewhat weaker than in 2017, this contributed to an increase in the deficit in the domestic exchange by 8.5% as a result of the stronger growth dynamics of imports compared to exports means 5.4% compared to 3% again, which is again a significant consequence of the first growth contribution, which is the increase in personal consumption which was the most significant contribution at the overall growth rate. In view of the cumulative achievements of the surplus in the current and capital account, 3.9% of GDP was seen, reducing the relative indicators of foreign debt and the net state of international investment. Although it did happen somewhat slower with dynamics than in the previous year. As regards the fiscal policy of the general government, the balance of the general government continued to significantly improve and a surplus of the general government was achieved during that period, according to the ESA 2010 methodology of 1.1 billion kuna. This continuation of fiscal adjustment is due to the intensive growth of tax revenues combined with slow growth in current expenditures, while reducing the achievement of state investments. The general government and GDP debt ratio was 76.1% and 1.4% respectively, respectively, less than at the end of 2017 and by the end of 2018 it fell by over 3%, meaning approximately 3x faster than the Stability and Growth Pact requiring a decrease in public debt by 1/20th of the difference between the current level of public debt and 60%, which in the Croatian case is about 1% a year. With regard to the functioning of the CNB, the CNB continued to support the recovery of the domestic economy and to maintain a stable exchange rate according to the euro, which is a prerequisite for maintaining financial stability in Croatia as well as maintaining stable inflation expectations. As a result of the pressure to strengthen the kuna, the CNB purchased from banks still substantial foreign exchange funds, around 742m euros in the first half of 2018, which has led to an increase in the high kuna liquidity of the monetary system to the highest levels recorded. After that, as you know it continues to increase, primarily under the influence of the continued significant buying-out of foreign exchanges by the CNB in order to reduce or eliminate the strong pressures on the strengthening of the kuna against the euro and to avoid jeopardising the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and the surplus in the current balance of payments account that our economy is experiencing at the moment. Under the conditions of extremely high excess kuna liquidity, which is the consequence of what I have said so far is the lack of the interest of banks in short-term kuna funds within regular weekly reverse repo auctions. So we don't have any interest in financing through reverse repo auctions, no matter what interest rate it is since banks still have a very large surplus liquidity at the moment. This, of course, still favours the further decline of active and passive interest rates, business banks in Croatia and also contributes to the favourable movements of credit and credit demand standards, which is, on the other hand, the result of continued economic recovery and the improvement of the labour market situation. It means if we look at the demand of the loan companies or the demand of households for loans. I would like primarily to point out a significant increase in the lending of the population where the largest contribution of borrowing from cash non-intentional loans, as you know, was followed closely by the Croatian National Bank in 2018 and at the beginning of this year we issued a recommendation, is that to limit the growth of such loans, since it was partly something we can call regulatory arbitration, in other words, since the Consumer Credit Act de facto introduces what we call the debt service ratio towards household incomes, and non-intentional cash credits did not have that. What has emerged is that in the structure of non-intentional cash credits suddenly began to increase handiwork. So the ones from the typical loans that were 1, 2 to 5 went to 10 and 12 years, and the amounts that went to over EUR 100,000, which was obvious that these were no longer cash non-intentional consumer loans, but that part of these loans began to be de facto used to bypass the meaning of the Consumer Credit Act, which limits the possibility of borrowing with regard to household income. With our recommendation, we have now extended it to this type of loan and I can say that from the current survey, so for the April of the banks, most banks apply this recommendation. If some banks will not do so soon, we will act with other measures that all must apply that measure in order to keep the same, equal conditions of competition on the banking market in the end line. As far as international reserves are concerned, they have grown strongly and this is again the direct consequence of our monetary policy that prevents appreciation means strengthening the kuna by buying out foreign currency. At this point, of course, the international reserves of the CNB are at historical maximum, which on one hand is good we have high international reserves for them to achieve our goal of maintaining the stability of the course. However, on the other hand, it makes a rather complicated situation in managing international reserves because, as you know, we are still in a situation where our main interest rates are in which we invest international reserves, which are in EUR in most cases in negative territory and even up to 10 years, but of course it is only a secondary thing that the NBH sees. Our goal is not to be profitable, but to maintain stability. We will continue with such a policy for this reason, stabilising these pressures to strengthen the kuna, increasing international reserves, and even in the conditions of continuing or extending the situation of these negative interest rates, which are now clear that they have a horizon of about a year longer than we could have assumed a year ago, given the announced actions of the European Central Bank. A dollar, of course, is a dollar market which is more attractive, but yet we cannot be too exposed to the dollar risk since we are tied to the EUR and at the end of the line our way at this point is towards the euro zone. Such inconsistency of the currency structure of the active and passive and the complexity of the fluctuation of the EUR-o kuna exchange rate and the kuna dollar, which affect the Kunian equivalent of international reserves, and hence the CNB profit report also has a negative exchange rate difference. However, the CNB makes operational profit from its business, continuously continues, and negative exchange rates when they appear are covered by the general reserves of the CNB which as you know are high since we have accumulated over 11 billion kuna reserves through positive exchange rates over many years and are covered from these reserves. I can now announce to you that on the way to the euro zone we will also change the standards of financial reporting according to the European Central Bank's guidelines, so that these exchange rate differences in the future are essentially going to take place outside the balance sheet, they will not be in the report of profit and loss, they will not be de facto as they are sometimes transferred off the balance sheet in meaning that the account which at the moment is the reserve, which is inflated when you have exchange rates and they blow up when you have negative exchange rates differences. In terms of bank operations, banks' assets gradually grow, mildly if we turn off the attachment of a housing savings bank that happened, which was slightly over 1% of the growth rate. The gain and profitability indicators mean that after 2017 they decreased, because banks were then making provisions for the discounts of what we called the risk of Agrokor, they began to improve in 2018, as banks reduce the meaning of these reservations after the process of solving the problem with Agrokor. So then the return on assets, return on assets, amounted to 1.8% and the return on capital increased to 10.1%. In addition, the share of partially compensated and completely non-refundable loans continued to decrease as well. At the end of June 2018, it is 1.2%, and now we have already come to the situation of us falling below 10%. On the one hand, such movements have been significantly affected by the new credit activity of the Jel, by increasing the total amount of credit, on the other hand by the sale of bad claims. The total capital rate decreased slightly, however it remained very high at 22.6% and this reduction can primarily be attributed to changes in the weighting of banks' exposures to the central state due to changes in regulation and therefore increased exposure to risks. However, Croatia still has an extremely stable and well-capitalised banking system. In addition, the fact that the total capital rate is calculated in a highly unlikely, very unfavourable scenario of total non-payment of exposure of risk groups B and C placements is 18%. So even if we assume that the unreserved B and C payments will not be charged at all, that 0 will be charged by them, the capital ratio of banks remains above the level required by the prudential standards and the banking system still has a very high financial leverage ratio of 12.2% which puts us, I would say in a very good situation before the arrival of the European Central Bank and the assessment of the quality of Croatian banks' assets, which was not of course the case in all EU countries. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs, I would like to conclude my presentation with this. I thank you for your attention, and I will be very happy to answer your questions and comments below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141135	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused quite a number of replicas. Let's start from the beginning, she was the first respected representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141136	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Governor Vujčić. Well, lately, except for the fact that you're doing the governor's work, you're walking around in institutions, so you're propagating the euro. I can see that the CNB has been heavily involved in this propaganda. And on the official pages, you also fabricate the polls. So despite the fact that the Eurobarometer shows that over 56% of Croatian citizens are against the introduction of the euro, you fabricate the issues and then ask questions as for the medium term, whether, in 5 years, Croatian citizens will be introduced the euro in 10 years, and then as that total data is according to your polls, 52% of them are actually for the introduction of the euro but it is one pure manipulation. The Eurobarometer is official data and it's a terrible thing to do because it's public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141137	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed governor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141138	Thanks for asking. I'd say we don't make any data at all. If you go to our website, what you will see is that we have presented all the surveys that have recently been conducted, including Eurobarometer. And the CNB has also already conducted a second poll that shows very clearly that if you ask people if they are for the introduction of the euro or not for the introduction of the euro, 52% of people are responsible for the introduction of the euro, 40% that they are not, 8% that they do not know. If we ask those who are against the introduction of the euro why, for practically one basic reason, they are afraid of a strong price increase as we explain is a myth, it is not something that has happened in those countries that have introduced the euro so far and it is not something we can expect to happen in Croatia. So what we do, we inform the public, it's our job and our duty, inform the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141139	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141140	Thank you very much. Dear Governor, so I have a poll different from you, namely here in the New List in late April that 39% of citizens support the introduction of the euro by 12% as soon as possible. So only 12% of citizens actually support this policy that you're running, means headless assembling into the euro, which I don't understand since you have a name in your name as a people's bank. So you're a people's bank and you should actually work for the people and listen to the people's opinion and apparently you work primarily for your imaginary career and according to the instructions of the outside centers of power. So we can actually conclude that it may not be a People's Bank, but it may be some kind of Chinese bank, or I don't know where you don't travel, and since you spend half your time abroad anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141141	The answer of the esteemed governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141142	Well, in my case, I should probably be the last person to move on to the euro because I run monetary policy and that my signature on the bills is according to that, I won't be able to do it anymore when we move to the euro. I'm doing it for one reason, because it's in the interest of citizens and the Republic of Croatia. If it weren't for the interests of the citizens and the Republic of Croatia, I certainly wouldn't suggest that I be deprived of the power to conduct monetary policy and sign these bills, especially if I were to do so in someone else's interest rather than in the interests of this people. The poll you're talking about is a survey I saw on HRT. It sums up, first of all, those results that were there at 85%, which is not quite usual to add up to 85%. On the other hand, it is also interpreted that those who say the euro should be introduced only when Croatia fully recovers economically are interpreted as against the introduction of the euro. No, they say no, we are for the introduction of the euro when the Croatian economy recovers. I would say that at this point and given the results of the economics that I've quoted before, I've really recovered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141143	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141144	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Governor Vujčić, I will not forgive your inaction and inaction with the CNB regarding unfair interest rates. Banks damaged Croatian citizens by several billion kunas by negotiating unfair interest rates before 2013 in 125 thousand CHF contracts and at least 200 thousand other contracts. You made it possible by your inaction, you banks didn't stop it, and now you're talking about some drop in interest rates. These interest rates are still higher by some 100% than in Germany, consumer loans, there is no reason for because the resources are as cheap as in Germany and there is no reason for interest rates in Croatia to be 100% higher than in Germany, and this inaction has allowed banks to rob Croatian citizens for several billion kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141145	The answer of the esteemed governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141146	Thank you very much, this one and no. Mr. Alexic, you've been to the CNB several times and talked about it with our legal services, we told you that we did everything we could. [[Intruder: The replica is on you, therefore you must answer, please.]] These are private-legal relations that are now in courts and courts decide on them, not the CNB. And as for the interest rates themselves in Croatia are more than in the euro zone, that is true, than in Germany, but that is why we are going to the euro area to be lower interest rates. This is one of the main reasons, and they are lower than in all non-euro area EU countries. So if you look at.../incomprehensible/... European countries, only in Slovakia and Slovenia that are in the euro zone are lower at this time than in Croatia, and we are lower than in all others and that is the work of the CNB and we have done it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141147	The next replica of the respected representative, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vujcic, in your presentation, you said that there was an increase in employment and a decline in unemployment during that reporting period. However, what I am interested in is what is the ratio here or whether the number of unemployed has decreased precisely by the number of job openings, or because of the large number of emigrations of Croatian citizens, because we have a chronic lack of working age, or we say we lack labour, so I am interested in the causes, mainly because of the ratio between these two things or whether the number of unemployed has decreased in the same number of new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141149	The answer of the esteemed governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141150	Thank you very much, he's here, it should be a little more likely than a minute to explain, that's a few things to do. On the one hand, unemployment has been reduced because new jobs have been created. So we've had growth in the last five years of about 125, 130,000 new jobs. However, it has partly decreased because part of the people went abroad, but at least half of those who went abroad went from working relationship. So they had a job so they went to a better paid job abroad. And as for our lack of labour, we still have a nominally relatively high unemployment rate because of what we have. structural discrepancy between the skills required in the labour market at this time and what people are offering and that's something to do, it's for me, as I said last year already, Croatia's biggest structural problem, which we are going to, but this is now a matter for a little longer discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141151	Thank you, the next replica of the esteemed representative, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141152	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, here's to not only being criticized, I will personally commend you because I think this good measure you've made to stop cash non-intentional loans because we already know today that they're on, the share of bad loans is much bigger than housing, and on economic growth we're somewhere from 3%. I think it's a good measure to contain such a balloon, which you know is already close to 50 billion kuna and in the first crisis it's going to be not to say any new problems in bank balances and here's what I'm giving you public praise for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141154	The following is the replica of the respected representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141155	Dear Vice-President, respected to the governor and vice governors, and here in this assembly, and on the committee itself, it has been mentioned several times by some colleagues such a catastrophic situation and the result achieved in 2017. So the loss that was in the CNB, which was caused by exchange rate differences, so here you pointed it out, but here it wouldn't be bad to do it again even though it's more than clear what it came from, it came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141156	The Honorable Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141157	Thank you very much, so we're doing what we would say is operating profit. This loss mentioned is essentially the result of exchange rate differences, exchange rates, since we hold our international reserves of around 85% in the euro and 15% in the dollar, it means our result when we take into account exchange rates depends on where the exchange rate of EUR and EUR-o is. We cannot influence the EUR-o exchange rate at all, and we primarily influence the EUR-o exchange rate through our monetary policies, maintaining exchange rate stability. And our goal can't be profitability, or positive exchange rates. We, even if we make positive exchange rates, can't pass them on to the Ministry of Finance, they go into general reserves, and when they're negative, they shrink. We transferred all the sums to the Ministry of Finance cumulatively 7.3 billion kunas of HNB's profits, meaning almost a billion Euros and that exclusively from the realised profit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141158	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Governor, so the fact is that the Croatian economy is vulnerable, so the growth is relatively limited, the growth potential is low, you often point out, productivity is weak, the industry is falling, the balance, the balance of payments is turning again in that bad direction we used to be, so imports are growing at significantly higher rates than goods exports. Tourism is relatively uncompetitive, it threatens us and this danger due to the development of these new markets or rather the return of tourists to some old markets. So all this, together with the limited and relatively bad business climate, is actually threatening Croatia. I am interested in what your message to the Government is in this context and especially in the context of the introduction of the euro.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141160	The Honorable Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141161	What I point out recently is that the macroeconomic situation in Croatia is very good at the moment, the vulnerability has decreased in this regard. We have a surplus on the current and payment accounts of the balance of payments and a reduction of the public debt. However, where the vulnerabilities remain and the problems of the Croatian economy are in the structural part. This means increasing the potential growth rate of the economy and these are the problems that we are already facing second and which need to be resolved gradually. They primarily concern structural matters that are in the domain of public administration, more efficient justice, education, the health system and these are things that if, and the management of public enterprises. So the greater efficiency of public companies since they also have lateral effects on the efficiency of other companies and these are the key things that I think we need to solve to raise this potential GDP growth rate to not grow 2.5% but to go to 3.5% or 4% of growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141162	Thank you. The next is a replica of Tomislav Zhagar's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141163	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Governor, according to media reports, you were astounded yourself when you said that 1.7% of the savings in the Republic of Croatia, so about 51 thousand have 43% of the total savings in the Republic of Croatia. And that savings, total savings, the foreign exchange savings in the Republic of Croatia amount to 21 billion euros, so more than foreign exchange reserves. And here in the media Mr. Santini warns you that you do not want to give any data on how much savings there is in the Republic of Croatia more than a million euros in savings because because of the liberalisation of the market, this savings could leave our banks. So, in this way, if they would withdraw their savings, they would be threatened by the exchange rate, the currency liquidity of the Republic of Croatia in terms of the euro. And that is why you do not want to announce how many such savings there are with millions of savings in euro because Croatian society is obviously more diverged.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141164	The Honorable Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141165	It's not that we don't want to publish anything, we're publishing the same thing you have on our website exactly this structure of savings distribution how many people there are savings, which is essentially an approximation of what you said. Now this question of whether there could be an outflow of a significant deposit abroad, it was one fear that when we negotiated EU accession, it appeared and it was a debate we had here in the assembly. I remember at the time I had about whether liberalisation of the capital account, allowing Croatian citizens to open a deposit in foreign banks to save abroad. Today, however, we have confirmation that this did not happen. We opened that possibility, people got it, they didn't have it before, so in 2013, that's the last thing we liberalized. However, there was no savings drain at all at that time from Croatia despite even having been a crisis at the time. So I'd say that somehow here's history has confirmed already empirically that we shouldn't be afraid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141166	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141167	Thank you very much. Mr. Governor, I'm glad you talked about some things here today, but as an agent, I'm extremely sorry we're not discussing the second half of 2018 report today. Why? For reasons when Eurostat announced that Croatia is coming out of an excessive deficit measure, there is no more macroeconomic imbalance. When credit agencies raised the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, so with all the good macroeconomic indicators and with certain recommendations that Croatia should do, I think this debate today would be of great quality. I'm sorry that there are no people in the assembly today who have strongly advocated some kind of revision, anyway, because I've been here for years saying that when the law was enforcing the obligations of the CNB, it was built in because all MPs can comment with the governor on how the CNB works, what is the compatibility between the work of the CNB and the Croatian Government, and then it would be very easy to come up with what needs to be fixed, which is good, but unfortunately we are dealing with some things that are not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141168	Thank you. The Honorable Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141169	Well, I'd say not only that, but we, as you know two years ago, invite all the club representatives to the CNB and open up the possibility of discussing any issue of interest. And I repeat that call to everyone here the CNB is open at all times to all the club representatives and some club representatives have so far used it multiple times, come to the CNB with any questions and we've discussed all this. So I repeat to those who haven't been to the CNB yet to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141170	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'll open the hearing then. And the first one, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, will be spoken by respected representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, once again honored governor with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the half-yearly, two half-yearly information, and I will analyze this first semester of 2018 more in my debate. So according to the CNB report, the first half of 2018 was a macroeconomic success, the international environment was also favourable and economic growth began to slow down slightly, slightly in particular among major euro area trading partners. The domestic economy has grown, personal consumption, exports and continue to be the main drivers of growth while investments are less than expected. According to the same report, the growth of investment in capital investment is greater than that of the private sector compared to the country that reduced investments by almost 1/3. Economic growth in the first half of 2018 was 2.7% year-on-year, which contributed most to the growth of personal consumption which continues to increase with similar dynamics as in 2017 and increased by 3.7% year-on-year. In addition, the growth of consumer lending was also reported, so personal consumption is the single largest component of aggregate demand that has contributed most strongly to real GDP growth. And I'm gonna stop here for a little while. So as the CNB report only states that economic growth is 2.7% and that the most contributing to economic growth is personal consumption, it seems to me about 60%, we know that, and in the CNB report itself, it is said, and it was in some replica that a large part of the Croatian citizens have started to become more heavily in debt again, and this is seen from all the CNB reports, there is a certain concern that a certain part of the consumption that is accumulated again in that part is accumulated from the stronger borrowing of Croatian citizens and that this is what we saw in 2005, 2006, 2007. and that is the problem later if we have the first problems regarding the economic environment, that the first to become vulnerable, these are citizens who at the time of economic growth not only in this part of the debt was in one part and there was a deleveraging of Croatian citizens, however, what is now present and what is seen in the CNB reports, and in fact we will also say that this additional approval of cash non-intentional loans, as the governor said even until 15 years ago. that in a year more than 5 billion kunas were granted, that is a very large amount of Croatian citizens who are again and that the amount of cash non-intentional loans came somewhere near 45, 46 billion kuna, that is some of the latest data, I don't know how they are now with final 2018, if you know that housing loans are close to around 50 billion kuna, we see that cash non-intentional loans in the last few years, in the last 3 years. I think it was a good measure of the CNB that not only did it warn the public banks that they had to revise that part of the portfolio during their approval, but as far as I saw from their report, certain concrete measures were in place that this part would be contained, while we are doing well, while the economy is growing and, in that part, spending is an important component of GDP, however, in the first following disturbance on the financial market, it is certain that these citizens will be much more vulnerable today when we have full employment, to say full, to see that it is below all possible numbers that the Republic of Croatia has had. As for employment, we have a rate of return on these loans already worse, already we have a worse somewhere around 6.3% compared to housing loans that fell below 6%, and this is a warning that, I know that today is not easy to say, when it's all approved, when it's all going, and when we should actually encourage in such a form of consumption, however, some of our experiences from the past have shown that these are very serious portfolio problems that the CNB will later have to recommence with the citizens, but believe that this will always fall on some of the governments that will have to re-brand certain different models and some kind of exhibition to solve that part of the blocked citizens, do we know that those 40 billion kuna kunas are blocked amounts, and that are all the amounts that are actually in this kind of consumer period of over-optimulation that have generated there since, in the last 4, 5. before the crisis, that they were primarily related to such a form of financial transactions. Thus, in this context, it certainly is good, that the CNB has reacted in this way and that the public should be reported in which part of it will continue to monitor these loans. This is also logical if you see that these are banks today, which is actually in the report itself, it says that it is a favourable movement, not only of interest rates, that it has also caused very high liquidity, that the average liquidity in the first 6 months of 2018. reached 17.1 billion kuna and that is more than the average surplus recorded in 2017. What is a fact, meaning that 27 billion kunas is an excess of liquidity in that part, and that banks are certainly and certainly by the fact that more than this morning, we talked about something, it seems to me that HROK is no longer in some function and that in that part, too, he was trying to use that part of the step in the market, this where a certain credit capability was being checked before and which were in certain problems, and that this certainly excessive liquidity and expansional monetary policy is now opening up the possibility for banks to offer various products and I think that in this part of the CNB has done the right thing. When we talk about exports of goods and services, that is what my colleague, Greekic, said and in fact warned that exports of goods and services continued to slow down at the annual level, in the period from January to June 2018. Exports of goods increased by only 2.8% on an annual basis, which is significantly less than in the same period in 2017 when the export growth rate was 10.7%. This is what we say not only about the export of services and we know that tourism is our main component in the export of services, but about the export of goods, that it slowed us down in that part, and that's what makes it logical, if our main foreign trade partners like Germany and Italy are starting to approach that kind of zero rate of economic growth, and that's what, other than that consumption, and all the time we've been saying that it can't be just the consumption of the main GDP generator and that particular consumption based on the borrowing that it has to be exports of goods and services in this part, the context, given not only that it's related to the export of goods as in the form of shipbuilding where there is no more shipping of ships, but in the report itself, such as the pharmaceutical industry and some other industries that are probably on the world financial market, in fact, world markets, something harder to place their goods. On the other hand, what is one boosted consumption, and the CNB report itself defines that strong domestic demand has resulted in import growth. The growth of imports faster than export growth and, compared to the same period of the previous year, deepened the negative contribution of net foreign demand to economic growth. So for the past two years, we have a much stronger increase in imports, and when you're just reading the CNB, you'll see that these imports are not based on components of some capital goods that should be used for investments, but again we're talking about a certain part of the intermediary consumption that was repeated to us in 2008 when the whole system actually started to show little signs of slowdown. Also, this poorer, slightly lower exports and strong imports also looked at the payment balance sheet data for the first 6 months of 2018, a significant decrease in the length of the lack of foreign trade in goods by 8.5%, resulting from the noticeable strong dynamics of import growth compared to exports, means 5.4 to 3%. Data from the State Statistics Office allow for a breakdown by products show that the increase in the external trade deficit is mainly the result of a worsening balance in the exchange of medical and pharmaceutical products, we also said about shipbuilding, and to a lesser extent the increase in net imports of road vehicles and electrical machinery, appliances and devices. So again we have importing stronger imports of cars, it's something similar to what we had in 2008 or all the years ago, just unfortunately, according to some data, it's not new cars anymore, it's imports of used cars. That's what we need to be particularly concerned about, not just the ecological part, but also the safety, safety on the roads. As the governor said, this economic growth was accompanied by a certain inflation of consumer prices, so in the first half of 2018 it accelerated so that it helped boost inflationary pressures also came from the external environment primarily due to the rise in the price of crude oil somewhere around 17% and annual inflation came to a level of 2.4%. As far as unemployment is concerned, and here it has also been said, that the reductions are also in the CNB's report that it is the continuation of one part, one part, and the continuation of the labourability of the population, which is also a problem, especially if we know that we have a deficit, a deficit in tourism, and that tourism is one of our main sources, not only in this part of the balance of payments, but one main generator and filling the budget itself and encouraging the entire economy. We also talked to the Committee this morning about some work permits, importing labour, etc., and here it's actually reducing the lack itself, reducing unemployment due to the eviction of the working-age population. Also, what is said in the NHB report is related to state spending, tax revenues have increased by 5%. So it was also on the Finance Committee today, so if your economy is growing, and we're growing about 2.7% of tax revenues are growing twice as fast. So tax revenues are growing twice as fast, they're up 5% to 6%, and that's why we have that part of the deficit, and I say colleague Schuker remembers very well in 2009, when the economy was dropping 6.7%, then tax revenues fell to 15% to 20%. And that's the sensitivity of our tax policy to the economy, when the economy falls 5% to 6% of your tax revenues are down 10%. When the economy grows 2% to 3%, your tax revenues grow 6%. This is just to show about the vulnerability of our entire system and how connected it is and how important this economic and economic growth is, and I say once again, that economic and economic growth cannot be based solely on personal consumption and especially on personal consumption based on the borrowing of citizens. And that's what's here and in the CNB report itself said that the state has reduced certain parts of the investment and has reduced its investments by 1/3, which is not good especially if it is that part of the investment is being done to withdraw funds from the EU. So, to withdraw, this report itself shows that the state, through the EU itself, has not been able to make the funds so competitive and private sector and that it is good that the private sector has bigger and the department, the share of the withdrawal of these funds than the state. However, here it is shown that the overall annual difference between the use of funds and payments to the EU budget has increased somewhere to 1.2 this year to 1.4%. This is the part where certain ministers are planning certain projects and we are saying that we will withdraw up to 14 to 15 billion, and in fact, when it comes down to it, it is somehow 7 to 8 billion in this 3.4-year use of EU funds. And now I'd just like to say something short about bank business, get banks, and business indicators are never better than they are today. And here we have nothing open about this someone who is against or be in favor, but simply to say so. The acquisition and business of banks as said by the governor regarding the reduction of reservations for Agrokor i.e. in 2017, in the first half of the year there are 3.5 billion kunas and 180% higher, respectively, compared to the first half of 2017. Both the profitability indicators and the yield on the assets and the capital yields achieved a high 1.8% and 10.1% respectively, the only such results still had in 2008, the only such results were in 2008. When the share of bad credits is shown, as is said somewhere they are at 11.2%, when it comes to businesses they are normally bigger somewhere at 22%, when we talk about construction firms it is seen that in that part, probably that part of the portfolio is being sold, we see that this year in the first half of the year the CNB, the banks have sold around 2 billion kuna. Most of this applies in that part probably to the construction companies this and that in that part, the bank's dividends have withdrawn 1.1 billion kuna. So, unfortunately, we don't have any more time, but all in all, certainly enough. Not only through this report, but through our debate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141172	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141173	Thank you very much, Vice-President, I welcome once again the Governor and Vice-Governors, and here is the HDZ Club will certainly support these mid-term reports for 2017 and the first half of 2018. And I expected that this assembly would be fuller and that it would spit on a number of questions to the governor what it does in the CNB, how you do business and everything else, but the rest are only rare. So here's what you gave in the opening speech is a lot of information and a lot of data that everyone could actually look at in reports that are very exhausting and thorough. And what I'd like to do and here's my colleague, Lolovac, is touch a lot, which I'd say for these two periods that they're actually in common with these periods, and that's where I'm going to look at both part of monetary and part of fiscal policy. So, the fact is that during this whole period of the previous and continued GDP growth, sometimes a little more, sometimes a little lower, that the unemployment rate is decreasing and the employment rate is increasing, that there is an surplus in the current and capital account, and we have a constant decrease in public debt compared to GDP, so that is, you said that this public debt is going down faster than with other members, that in the past two years, here is the surplus in the state budget, that both the state budget and public finances have endured any actual developments that occurred during the Agrokor crisis period, that we also have an increase in credit rating where it is more than obvious that we have to make additional efforts to make that credit rating work with other agencies as an investment. And that this is actually a very good basis that we have reason to do other steps and what you said yourself to strengthen some reforms that will help us all to be as good as possible and to be more competitive and ultimately that we do not have an outflow of labour or our youngsters that is constantly mentioned. So in 2017, when we talk about the end of 2017, it was mentioned that the growth of the economy was then 2.9 and that was something that was 0.6% lower in that period compared to the previous year. Also in this period there was a rise in gross wages and also a net salary, gross wages then increased on average by 4.6% compared to 2016 and the increase in net wages was more pronounced especially because of changes in income tax laws that entered in the beginning of last year. You also mentioned that we must say that consumer price inflation has accelerated in the second half of 2017 and because the rise in crude oil prices has affected fuel prices and oil prices, so it has increased, and the annual rate of consumer prices inflation increased from 0.7 in June to 1.2 in December. Multi-annual imbalances decreased, so as I said, the surplus was achieved in the current and capital account of the balance of payments in the second half of 2017 and thus increased and further increased the net export of services and this particular service of tourism, i.e. travel. The lack of trade in goods deepened, so imports, the net capital outflows achieved largely resulted in a further decrease in net foreign debt liabilities, domestic sectors while the inflow of direct equity investments continued to be relatively modest. What should be said is that during the second half of the year, the CNB sought to maintain a stable exchange rate towards the euro, and that was the condition of preserving financial stability, that is what many citizens forget that this very stability has made it possible for everyone to make it much easier to pay off regardless of what we had the situation and the great shouts about how much the economy and citizens owe and how many blocked the jury and current accounts. If that stability hadn't been maintained, it would have been far more catastrophic and problematic than it was, it happened. It was during that period, so in 2017 you bought as CNB a billion and 700 million euros and thus from banks where additional liquidity was achieved but I say you kept a stable exchange rate towards the euro. The International Reserves increased by EUR 2.2 billion in 2017 in that period, and also what should be mentioned is that the share of partially and completely non-refundable loans continued to decrease at the end of 2017. In 2017, in fact, what I already mentioned in these characteristics and features was that the ratio of the debt of the general government and GDP at the end of 2017 was 77.5% or 2.7 percentage points less than in 2016. When we continue to say this for the beginning of 2018, we must say that real GDP has increased by 2.7% compared to the same period of the previous year, personal consumption has kept high growth rates where, therefore, the component of the general government has already been raised by domestic demand, with the growth in investment as a result of an increase in private sector capital investment, while the general government's investments have remained quite suppressed. The employment rate and the unemployed continued to change, therefore, that the number of employees was increasing, so the unemployment rate was 10.4% in the first half of 2018, and now the average gross salary was further reduced as well as net growth. What is still to be said is that the CNB reserves, in fact, the CNB continued to guard the course and thus was still bought at the beginning of 2018, at EUR 726 and EUR 742 million, because EUR 16 million was from the Ministry of Finance where additional €5.5 billion was thus preserved by the appreciation pressure that existed during that period. At the same time, international reserves were higher by 6.3% and amounted to over EUR 16.7 billion, while net international reserves increased by 6.8% or 14, nominally EUR 14.7 billion. You mentioned it, and I must say that in 2018, there was a significant growth in bank assets, and this was influenced primarily by the attachment of one residential savings bank to the parent bank, while at the same time, the profitability of banks recovered relative to the same period of the previous year, which is what is very well and the share of the loans of the risk groups B and C decreased slightly, while from 11.3 to 11.2%, thereby improving the quality of credit in non-financial corporations and the population. In the first half of public finances, an excess of the general government was achieved according to... The methodology for 1.1 billion kuna, which is an indication that fiscal policy is also high-quality, and the debt ratio of the general government and GDP at the end of June 2018 was 76.1% and decreased to some 74% by the end of 2018. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, despite the fact that we often like to say that many want to criticise too, we must say that the stability of this system has also been shown in one way that credit agencies have shown it, and then when we look at that share of bad credits has fallen below 10%, then it is something that should have been shown in late 2018, then it should be very prominent and keep in mind that in this future period we really move to make our economy structure much less dependent on some external influences, and in this way here we must be very pleased that significant stability has been achieved, and here it continues in, by the end of 2018, and the beginning of this year, I hope that you will continue to lead a successful monetary policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141174	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Goran Aleksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141175	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Governor Vujčić with colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, dear citizen and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The CNB report is as it is, however, missing some details, and these details are missing, because the CNB does not want to deal with these details. HNB is a very conservative insinuation, which conservatively works in the Republic of Croatia, not proactive in the part where it should be proactive, as regulator and supervisor of bank work. I'm talking about what I'm going to talk about now, and first of all I want to talk about unfair interest rates, talk to the governor multiple times and it's been written several times by the CNB which is wrong with the business of Croatian banks. Constantly, however, nothing has changed. When did we notice that the business of Croatian banks is unfair? Unfortunately, only in 2011 and this unfair business lasted 10 years ago, it began in the beginning of 2000 that banks did this to Croatian citizens and did not do anything else west of Croatia. Banks in the Republic of Croatia, foreign-owned banks, negotiated in almost all contracts, with a variable interest rate, regardless of currency, negotiated the interest rate, which is amended by decision of the Bank. Such an interest rate is illegal under the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Consumer Protection Act. What's wrong with that interest rate? It's like you're gonna make a deal with one of you selling cars and I sell one of you a car for 100,000 kuna and I say, you're gonna pay me a car in 10 wars per 10 thousand kuna, but the contract says, every war, I can change how I want it to be. And you sign, and after the first war, I raise you the next war to 12,000 kuna, and then the next war to 13, and the next war to 15, and I increase it, and you pay. And if you don't understand what the problem is, you'll pay it and pay me a price that's up to 50% more than the one that's agreed at the start of the contractual relationship. And someone who's conservative, like the conservative Governor Vujčić and the CNB, will say, but you've arranged it, and you've signed nothing, who's to blame for it, it's all right. However, things do not stand so, the Law on Mandatory Relations is completely clear, he says, the contractual act must be either determined or determined. It's written in articles 269-272, it's Roman law, it's over 2,000 years old, it's nothing new. So in order for the interest rate to be determined, it has to be fixed, and if it's fixed all right, no problem. In order to be quantifiable, when variable in the contract, the exact data on which the interest rate is changed must be agreed. In 2011, too, when the divergence of the French currency clause began, we noticed at the same time that contracts also agreed on a changing interest rate which is actually unfair and illegal. It is illegal under the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Consumer Protection Act, because it was not negotiated, and later caused imbalances, in rights and obligations, to the detriment of consumers. And we warned the CNB that she should react and that banks should be warned to break up with such behaviour. However, instead of the CNB reacting to the CNB website in the part intended to protect consumers, among other things, to consumer issues about how Croatian banks operate, one of the questions was how the interest rate is determined. Even this first question was and the answer to this question was one way of determining the interest rate is a variable interest rate that is changed by the administrative decision of the bank. So, the CNB on its site just swayed banks to do what they did. Not that it stopped them, but that's what she said, so that's normal, that's fine. And that information, to the consumers, was on the pages, on the CNB websites, up to the power of judgment in the case of francs, until 2014. I have proof of that. 2013 The Consumer Credit Act, amending that law, set out exactly how the interest rate must be defined and then set that the interest rate must consist of the fixed part and the variable part. And what are banks then, 2013 Did they? Since the 10th of January when the law began to apply, in the new contracts, of course, they have negotiated such contractual provisions. And with the new contracts, everything was fine. You have an offer, you have a fixed portion of the interest rate, you have a variable parameter, you have an initial interest rate, read, take or leave, is your pasture, pasture, okay, everything is defined, exact, determined. All right, new deal's up. And the problem with the new contracts was gone. However, the existing contracts still contained a provision that is unfair and in which it states that the interest rate is changed by a decision of the Bank. And what did the banks do then? At that time, banks started to voluntarily define a fixed part of the interest rate and an applicable part of the interest rate in their General Conditions would write that in the existing contracts they would define it in such a way and thereafter send all those debtors from existing contracts notices from both the day on and the date on which the variable interest rate has a fixed interest margin of such, the variable parameter and that, the periods of change and, accordingly, the future change in interest rate. And of course we said again, it's not a legitimate way of defining interest rates. The banks have again voluntarily defined the margin, have again voluntarily defined the variable parameters, have not agreed with the debtors, have not agreed with the debtors, and have not essentially done anything else, but have again defined the interest rates with their decisions. And we warned the CNB that it wasn't right. It was not once here that Vice Governor Bojan Frass told me later when the new amendments to the Consumer Credit Act were said that banks and in existing contracts had to define the parameters, he did not once tell me that it was so defined and that banks did not have to negotiate it and did not have to negotiate it with debtors in existing loans, but the law was simply decided that they could do it on their own. However, in those changes from 2014, i.e. from the end of 2013, the following said, for contracts where parameters are not defined, banks have to agree, comply with consumers and parameters and finally, agree, if they do not, they will be punished by penalties that are later prescribed in those parts concerning penalties, sanctions. However, they were still claimed not to have to do so, even the criminal courts said, no, it's not a violation, we won't punish banks. Even the Constitutional Court said that there was no constitutional right injured because it was the state that needed to get the money, and not me as a prosecutor, the injured one, so it doesn't matter. But what's going on this year? This year, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia made a decision after the revision of 1172/18, and in that audit, a bank which lost its dispute against consumers due to an unfair interest rate and had to pay the consumer a good amount of money, the bank submitted an audit claiming that it had brought its business into line with the law in 2013 because it had defined the parameters and, therefore, since 2013, everything has been fine with its business and its interest rates. However, what has the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia established this year by the Decision on the revision of 1172/18? What Goran Aleksic and the Franak Association and similar repeaters keep repeating is that this is not how the interest rate is determined. So, the Supreme Court has said the same thing we've been saying since 2011. He said that you claim to have acted according to the law, by defining those parameters, does not mean that you actually acted according to the law because you didn't make a deal with the debtor. Well, you can't define the interest rate on your own. You cannot define the fixed part of the interest rate and the variable part of the interest rate voluntarily. No, you can't do that and you can't do that. In order to comply with the law, you must make a deal with the debtor. Well, that's a simple rule, one fundamentally mandatory civil rule, that in a bilateral contractual relationship every contractual provision must be agreed and that the will of one contracting party is not permitted, after the contractual relationship is already under way. Well, that's clear to freshmen at law school. But it's not clear to the banks, it's not clear to the CNB, it's not clear to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it's not clear to you either, Mr. Representatives and Madam Representatives here. That's sad. 125 thousand people with CHF loans and a variable interest rate have been robbed, except for CHF currency, in contrast to the exchange rate, for changing the interest rate that has increased to more. In addition to those 125 thousand CCF lenders, there are certainly 200 thousand debtors from the euro and kuna loans to which banks have equally agreed on an interest rate until 10 January 2013 and I can say this roughly, that these people in those 325 thousand loans have been damaged by at least 5 billion kuna only at interest rates increases. These creditors from CHF loans are further damaged at the rate increase. We're waiting for a review at the Supreme Court to finally determine that CHF was worthless, but what I'm talking about right now is the interest rate. It is particularly important to me because the Supreme Court found that on June 12th of this year, there is an act of limitation of claims for overpaid interest on the basis of the Franak collective case. And so far, five thousand people have been sued. Of a possible 300 grand for interest. Imagine that. And we're all watching and we don't care. And says Governor Vujcic, it's a matter of private relations. Well, it's not a matter of private relations, it's a systemic problem. My people, 300 thousand people have been robbed by an increase in interest rates in an illegal manner. And we don't care. Well, that is, other than having to deal legally with this problem in a way that requires banks to offer settlements to debtors and pay them back through settlements, in addition, these banks should be punished. I'll tell you one case from one of the lawyers who worked for one of the mothers' banks, one of our banks. This lawyer, who now represents the consumer case Franak, told me the following, worked in Austria at the mother's bank and came to Zagreb, to the mother's bank's branch, actually to the daughter's bank, and they prepared one line of products and there it is visible how it says that the interest rate is being agreed and the interest rate is going to change by the bank's decision and he said but his colleagues, so it's not allowed, in Austria we don't do so. Then they told him about a colleague, we can't do it in Austria because that's where the Austrian National Bank doesn't let us do it, but since it doesn't defend the CNB here, we're going to do it because it suits us that way, and that lawyer promised me he'd be a witness when I pick up criminal charges against banks for that kind of behavior, and that'll be after the Franak case is over with a decision on bank audits, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141176	Thank you, too. Now it's next in front of the HNS Representatives' Club, Goddess Macar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141177	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Here we are today discussing half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2017, i.e. for the first half of 2018, where our applicant is the CNB and from the governor himself we have heard quite a lot of information from this report and some more. In the short term, I will look back at 2017, although it seems to us, and it was a long time ago, so we have data that economic activity in the second half of 2017 has increased by 2.8% year-on-year and growth has slowed at the end of the year. And the biggest increase in real GDP continued to contribute to the growth of personal consumption and growth of exports of goods and services. Unfortunately, a strong increase in imports continued, therefore higher than export growth, and this contributed to net exports of real GDP growth at the end of the year being negative. A real growth of 2.9% was achieved at the 2017 level, down by 0.6% compared to the previous year's performance, but also significantly lower compared to the growth of economic activity in the new EU member states. The administrative unemployment rate at the end of 2017 decreased to 11%, while continuing the growth of the number of employees which was good and was also growth of gross and net wages, gross and net wages and gross wages increased on average by 4.6% compared to the second half of 2016 and the growth of net wages was slightly higher due to the amendment of the Income Tax Act. Consumer price inflation accelerated in the second half of 2017, the most affected by the rise in raw oil prices, which also affected the rise in fuel prices, lubricating for private vehicles and rising electricity prices. At the 2017 level, the surplus balance of the general government of 0.8% of GDP has been achieved, which is significantly more favourable than expected. The total debt ratio of the general government and GDP at the end of 2017 was 77.5% or less by 2.7% than in 2016. As for 2018 and the first half, in the first 6 months, we have good and successful macroeconomic movements, and the international environment, which has been favourable, where economic growth has begun to slow down in particular among our main euro area trading partners, and all of which, of course, is automatically reflected in our business. Expansive monetary policy continued to support economic recovery, improved financing conditions, dropped interest rates and lending recovered. Economic activity increased by 2.7% at year-on-year, so the less it was in 2017 when it was 2.8% and the most contributed to the growth of personal consumption. We have already heard data here that somewhere we can take that the share of personal consumption in that increase is about 60%, or that only borrowing citizens through these non-purpose loans directly affecting personal consumption is somewhere at 45 billion kuna and that the CNB has just reacted and serviced the conditions to bring it into some contexts so that they don't break the borders and come into some unwanted situations. The number of employees continued to increase with the greatest contribution of the service activities of the private sector and of course of construction, there was probably construction and certainly contributed to a series of laws that were passed by this government to that end, and there was still a number of these activities, so it was good that finally and construction started because we all know what the situation was and now it's the reverse that we don't actually have workers for these jobs and that this structure must now start to create again and through what we have reforms in education with that vocational education, dual education, training with the work of retraining, we simply have to make the conditions for this construction industry that actually has a good potential to be back what we can create new, new, and increase the new social product through the work, if it won't be possible with the existing workforce and which it will obviously not be, regardless of all that it takes place. Surely those quotas for importing labour are those that must contribute because the only way out of the situation and better business can be achieved by greater employment. Furthermore, annual growth in gross wages and net wages continued. Inflation in the first half of 2018 slightly accelerated from 1.2 in December 2017 to 2.4 in June 2018. Economic relations with abroad have continued the years-long trend of reducing external imbalances. The surplus on the current and capital account of the balance of payments deteriorated in the first half of 2018 compared to the same period of the previous year, especially due to the increase in the lack of foreign exchange of goods by 8.5%, which I was saying was the same situation in 2017 that we are growing far faster than our exports. The general government and GDP debt ratio at the end of June 2018 was 76.1% of GDP and 1.4% less than in 2017, respectively. The average surplus liquidity in the first 6 months of 2018 reached €27.1 billion, which is more than the average surplus recorded in 2017. International reserves also increased by one billion kuna and 6.3% in the first 6 months 2018. And we are all aware of the problems of the workforce and the CNB points out in its report on this problem because the problem of the workforce is that the eviction of the working-active population and the gap between productivity and wage growth is also seen, which is a long-term problem in terms of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. All this salary increase to keep workers in Croatia to work, so that employers have adequate workforce or at least labour in most cases, perhaps not adequately, mostly went from the part which the employer would normally use to reinvest, or invest in new projects. Unfortunately, these funds paid salaries until productivity itself increased. We expect that we will soon have a report for the second half of 2018, given the indications and what we have learned we believe that these indicators will be even better and the HNS will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141178	Thank you. We move on to individual debates, Mr. Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Mr Vujcic, I have come to this debate exclusively, I will not now enter into the convincing of these two reports and enter some analysis about it but I have a few questions, so I would like to ask you, or I would like to hear your opinion on it, so perhaps in the final presentation if you are able to look back. So from these reports it is clear that let's say in short that the financial situation in Croatia has been stable in recent years, that our finances have stabilised to stabilise the economy. You stated in your 2017 report that there is a lack of state investment and that these investments are still not at the level we would like, but OK, here are the reports for the second half of 2018 and for the first half of this year and I hope that these indicators will be better too. What I want, I'd like to hear your comment on a few issues and it concerns more futures than these reports. So we see from these reports so far that inflation has stabilised in the given frameworks, although there have been fuel collection, but we see that in this year there are significant purchases, not only the price of gasoline, but the general energy of gas growth for households, the growth of electricity for the economy, I'm curious that you think that the increase in energy prices that occur in this year will affect inflation and the living standard of citizens in some future, or is there some kind of danger of a significant increase in prices in the recent future? So as for interest, it's good for interest to drop, but as interest falls on loans, interest is also on savings. So it has often been pointed out in the past that huge capital, i.e. significant financial resources, are on the accounts of our citizens in some forms of savings and since the savings interest has fallen up to 3.4 times over the past 2 years, I wonder whether the amount of funds that our citizens hold in savings, both kuna and foreign currency, or whether these funds have been re-routed to other investments and other forms of savings. Although you have stopped the intervention of this non-intentional cash credit that led to, in part, you have stopped or made an effort when you saw that certain problems might occur, I wonder whether, in your assessment, whether that amount of credit that has been granted in the last two years of non-intentional things that have led to a rise in consumption, which has led to the overall recovery of the economy, whether that number of these loans is still so large that in some recent future it could endanger one part of our citizens meanings for these loans that have been given so far because these loans have not been covered, or provided by banks, but have been given so easily and without cover to which you have been warned in the beginning of this year, but how many of these credits are now on the market and could they cause a threat to our citizens in some recent future? Another thing, as far as the euro is concerned, I belong to those who think that the Croatian economy should be prepared for the euro, so I am not against the introduction of the euro, I am for its introduction, but at that right moment. When that moment is, here, I'm interested in that, a little bit of your opinion. So, is Croatia ready to introduce the euro today? Is our economy prepared for that story? And since you often point out and that is true, that the CNB holds a stable kuna with its monetary policy and thus maintains the Croatian economy in part, what will be the role of the CNB after the introduction of the euro? Since you will no longer have such an impact on monetary, not so much, but will not have an impact on monetary policy, it will be dictated on the outside, or what will be your function as governor and the price of the CNB in that part when the euro comes to Croatia? The second thing, often in public based on an analysis of global movements and situations in international markets, is that we are facing a new global economic crisis and that it is threatening in some world scales, you have listed in the opening part of the 2017 Report a single quote, which is that through the repair of the good times and that it is the time for this saying, therefore, I wonder whether Croatia with what the Government is doing and with the measures it is taking in this period is ready for any new crisis to come, and whether we as a country will be able to cope again, that we do not happen to get into a crisis, like in 2007, which we have been expecting unprepared, and then the whole world and Europe came out of crisis, and we have recovered even a few more years after all of this came out, or whether Croatia is ready for the dangers that we are threatened? I've already asked you about employment and unemployment in my replica, so, here's some of my thinking where I'd like to hear your opinion and hope that you can answer me in your final presentation as much as you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141180	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr Branimir Bunjac's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141181	... The Parliament. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Governor Vujcic and his associates. We discussed the CNB on Friday. Excuse me. We're discussing here today, so on Tuesday, you're here today. There are many topics, I would just like to highlight some of the highlights that we have, therefore, had in the past week and during a series of discussions held in this assembly session. So here, let's say, I'm particularly interested, in what way has the external responsibility of the CNB increased by as much as 570% compared to 2012 to 2018? So, the CNB was in debt of HRK 350 million, the euro is sorry, it is now in debt of 2 billion euros. It's an 11-month-old condition. In 2018, it means that the CNB has never had such a debt, and this debt already has a negative impact on the general public debt of the state. So, here, that's, let's say, a question quite concrete. Furthermore, I'm curious as to why you insist on monetary policy that has no results? Oh, boy, I don't know how to do that. Now I get rid of that evil. There he is. I apologize again. So, if we have a broken Croatian economy and we have a demographic disaster and we have abnormally high prices compared to all EU Member States, let's say the directors are more expensive in Zagreb than in most EU capitals. If we have low wages, if we have low pensions, if we have less GDP growth than any other country in the environment, why do you still think nothing needs to change? Why are you so stubborn and simply not willing to listen to the voice of reason, the voice of opposition that has a lot more votes than the ruling majority in the elections, why don't you listen to the voice of independent experts, but persistently like that horse in the race with that mask on your eyes, you go one way and you just don't change anything? So for 25 years, we've had one of those same kuna courses, and you call it stability, even though everything around us is just not stable. Are you doing this for the reason that you're doing well, that you're fighting for a second term, that you're building a career of your own, that you want any kind of banking press to be declared governor, I don't know, years, same as former Governor Rohatinski, even though he didn't do anything smart at the head of the CNB, are you doing it because you're afraid, because you're under pressure, because you're simply not interested in citizens' concerns? So what is the specific reason why you ignore all this and keep ignoring it? Because if something doesn't work out if, I don't know, I'm going to simplify it completely, go out with one team on the field, and 10 times in a row, you're going to lose, then 11 times something will finally change. Maybe eventually you should think about what's best, and that's changing the coach, changing the one that's got the greatest power in his hands, and that's just you. Furthermore, I'm curious as to why you allow various credit institutions to keep on and on from the start of the citizens' interest? Do you know and know very well that in the Republic of Croatia debt slavery is a catastrophic problem, that Croatian citizens, directly, indirectly, indirectly, have been blocked, in debt that cannot be resolved until death. Why do you allow banking to exist on the bandits? So now we can walk here in Zagreb and on every other pillar, on every other fence, I don't know, tram station, there are some loans that are offered on paper printed from the printer and who's behind these loans? Behind these loans are banks, it says nice everything is legal, it doesn't matter what black lists are, it doesn't matter what you're in a blockade, it doesn't matter how free or busy you are, you can get credit. Where? In business banks. So these are just intermediaries who offer these loans, but you again, so you end up where you just got rejected from those same loans. So, the example from practice, I'm going to come to Erste Bank, to PBZ, there will tell me, I don't know, your receipts are busy, you can't get a loan, but then I'm going to get that same credit on the lamppost with some kind of commission, with some maybe more unfavourable conditions, etc., how is that possible? How is it possible that, I don't know, in the Republic of Croatia, the money of a mob institution from Malta and Cyprus? That they lie to the citizens that they will borrow thousands of kunas and that interest is only 3 kunas and then those citizens who are naturally naive, illiterate, and ultimately they don't even have to be written because you're written, you're paid to act, take that money, and then simply get such debts that they can't get rid of them, not for one, but for three lives. Why do you let banks charge illegal interest over and over again? So, not only did they charge them, but they still charge them. Why do you allow hundreds of thousands of citizens to sue banks now to get what is undoubtedly theirs? Why don't you, as some kind of market regulator, suggest to the Government or take some steps yourself to simply get rid of it as it was dealt with in Hungary? One powerful verdict was for Swiss, all Swiss loans were declared worthless, you know very well, banks had to pay back 25 billion kuna to citizens in Hungary. Why don't you perform more publicly, why aren't you out there in public when it comes to protecting the interests of those most vulnerable groups of societies? Why do you allow banking margins to be the most in the Republic of Europe? So if I were a banker and I was told the Bunjac opened a bank in Germany or opened a bank in the Republic of Croatia, I would open up in the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because for every EUR you would invest here you would have more money than in Germany, it is more worth it. How is that possible? So in a country where people have very high wages, banks earn less than in a poor country. So what does this CNB do when it's in no condition at all, means simply, at least, equalize if it doesn't improve the conditions for a country that is, therefore, already in a much worse position than these countries so-called. Developed? Why don't you go public on the second pension stake? Why don't you say that this model of savings and pension payments is extremely devastating for the economy? Why don't you say that the people who gave, I don't know, 100 billion kuna, they've already put more into that second pension column, they've got less pensions at the end than they've been saving in the old model? Why don't you say that just because of the second pension stake, there's been a public debt explosion and a credit rating crash? Well, that would be your job, Governor Wolfie, who will say that if you don't? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141182	Let's move on, Mr. Ivan Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right, Mr. Marin Skibola, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141183	Thank you, Vice President HS. Respected Governor Vujčić with the vice governors, the advice of the CNB, the management of the CNB, these are the same people in the advice of the CNB and the leadership, you advise each other. What do you say? I have a lot to say, but I think the economic situation in the state is saying a lot. You haven't been in HS for about a year, the last time you were in HS there was, when the elections were for the governor of the central bank, unfortunately, there was no discussion at all in HS about you whether you were meeting the criteria for being a new permanent governor, whether you were meeting the criteria for the second term, because that debate in HS was put in the day after the semifinal when Croatia-English played, whether it was targeted or not done personally I don't know, I won't speculate, but I know that information. Personally, I believe that the CNB is one of the roots of economic stagnation, a long-standing economic stagnation, and I believe that by fixing the course and by supporting the fixed rate, you have made the Croatian economy an anti-productive economy. I'd like to read one of the news published today by the New Journal, and the news says, grief at the shipyard, fired for 48 third parties, pay will never be paid. The question is whether such a monetary policy has contributed to our production economy stagnating, that domestic producers are choking in debt, that import lobbys and foreign private banks flourish in our financial economic system, that they earn profits in billions, never higher, and that Croatian citizens, every day, young people, are increasingly leaving this country because there is no perspective here, institutions are not dealing with their protection. Mr. Vujčić had a lot of failures, whether directly from you, whether directly from Mr. Rohatinski who was governor before you, there was an affair Swiss franc, Mr. Alexic talked a lot about it, all of this could have been predicted, all of this could have been prevented, however, the CNB was extremely inert, regardless of the knowledge she had. For example. In France, the French government does not believe that it would allow such things, the government there sends its commissioners to foreign banks' administrations, when they notice that they could be toxic loans, uncharging loans, they veto and there are no such loans. However, in the Republic of Croatia, situations are such that not only can you not prevent this unfair business and these speculations of manipulative which are illegal, which are not in line with the Law on Mandatory Relations, but you are allowing various interest rates, various credit cooperatives from Austria that came here to the financial market, no one asked if they could lend here loans through intermediaries, it is clear that these contracts were concluded in the Republic of Croatia because all conditions agreed in the Republic of Austria could be signed by someone in Austria, however, they were all agreed and agreed in the Republic of Croatia in public notebooks. And you know all this, however, you transfer these things to someone else's responsibility, but then the question is, how do you serve Croatian society and what is your role? Because Croatian society pays you fat, you have salaries twice as much as the president of the state, twice as big as the prime minister, not only the governor of the CNB, but also you as vice governors, and you very little expose yourself to the weakest, for those of usuryers and for those who choke in debt and in debt slavery. I am extremely sorry that these words that I am saying believe that they do not reach you because on many occasions in this assembly we have warned of such things, however, nothing has changed. Your inertness has continuity and I believe that this continuity will continue because your main function is now to implement the EURo, but you are also incorrect towards Croatian citizens, and you are unfairly accessing it because you are clearly showing the data. On the official website of the CNB you say that the Croatian citizens, 52% of Croatian citizens are for the introduction of the EUR, but you will not tell the truth, you will not say that the current official EU vote, which is the Eurobarometer says that at least 56% of Croatian citizens are currently against the introduction of the EUR, which means that not supporting the euro area and all that it includes is the Ren2 course mechanism and other procedures. You could talk a lot about monetary economic problems and the role of the CNB in the last 10 to 15 years, however, we economists know what the currency committee means, which is when the National Bank doesn't actually have a proactive role, you will say as price stability, exchange rate maintenance, we maintain a course, etc., however, it is one role that is not pro-active, which has no purpose for economic development, but the maintenance of the situation as it is and whatever you say in these reports you are conducting an expansional monetary policy, but I am responsible for saying that this is not an expansional monetary policy because the effects of expansional monetary policy do not reflect on the state of society, the features of expansion of monetary policy are low interest rates, and we do not have low interest rates in Croatia, the characteristics of expansion of monetary money is a great offer, and we have a huge amount of in the system that you know that this is important and that you know that this is important in terms, but that you will now that you know that you know that the key to the key, and that you know that you know that you are in terms of the key, and that you know that you know that you's you're going to stay. And I'm going to read one more thing about how much time it allows me since you said in the presentation that you were reducing the number of non-refundable loans, and that's one thought that a lady said like this, someone's going to call you for work, told me my neighbor, asked him which companies, when he said they called from the Eox matrix, I cried out, the neighbor thought it was good for me, and I was uncomfortable that they called him to get in touch with me. When I explained to him what was going on, he started apologizing and talking to me. He's sorry he didn't know. [[Intruder: Time]] So these are the agencies. for the payment of claims they call people and seek them out [[Intruder: Time]] through neighbors, etc. [[Intruder: Mr. Skobola]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141184	You have a replica of Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141185	Dear fellow Scybola, here you can finish through the replica and think what you wanted to say because I think the governor and his deputies, and also the colleagues who are in HS, should hear what you started reading. I would only be here to say that if the only job of the CNB is to keep the course then it can do it and every, I will say, and a bad economist, it will simply at one point sell a little EUR, so it will buy a little EUR, that the course stands at the same level, and on the other hand, what is most important is to take care of the standard of Croatian citizens, it is not working. The primary work of the CNB as well as all those who have a mandate by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or directly from the people is the standard of our citizens, not to be a currency exchange. Exchange jobs are made by economists for several thousand kunas, and you have 10 or 15 times more and it just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141186	Answer, here you go, Mr. Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141187	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic, for the constructive replica. Well, yeah, those claim-paying agencies, they're allowed to harass people, call neighbors, behave in a very anarchic way, and the CNB as a regulator that should prevent it, does nothing, and I don't know how many previous circular situations. It should also be said to Mr Zekanovic that I agree with this, the course maintenance and that inactive monetary policy everyone would know how to do it, however, one more active monetary policy in which to devalue the exchange rate, devalue the currency in certain situations, neither from Governor Vujčić nor from Governor Rohatinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141188	Now it's Mr. Hvoje Zekanovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141189	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, respected to the governor with deputies, this is where the issue of the introduction of the EUR is necessarily imposed, because this is what fills the news columns, this is what concerns the Croatian people, that is, what scares the Croatian people, and more than half of the Croats and Croats today expressed dissatisfaction with the idea of the government, and with your idea of introducing EURo. And then when you talk about the introduction of the EUR, we haven't actually heard a single economic argument so far why it should be done, there's no economic argument, there's no economic argument because it's not really monetary, so the matter of monetary policy is a single political instrument. For the same reason, the EUR never introduced the UK, the United Kingdom, has always kept its pound, for what? Because she could do what she's doing, so she could get out of the EU. Knowing that it has entered a monetary union with most countries, means, with the EU zone or most EU countries, its exit from the EU would be impossible and thus difficult and thus the Germans and the French are trying to throw it on their knees, humiliate it, but here they fail. I hope that the British will still get the courage to leave the EU. And I want to hear from you, here's the question, and I want to hear today's answer here, would it be possible for Brexit or for Britain to leave the EU if she had introduced the EURo? And if you were, in what way, how much harder would you be? I want to hear that answer. When we talk about our kuna, it is also a reflection of the sovereignty of our country, and I am constantly stressing, and I believe that you also know that every nation and every state when they give up their sovereignty has no perspective. So, by transferring sovereignty to the central, central European bank from the CNB, nothing will contribute to us. But on the other hand, I'm interested in what your perspective will be, what will happen to you then? Will the CNB then cease to exist? I don't see your purpose and I don't see the point here are your three salaries of nearly 130.000,00 kn, why would you give me that cost? So you might think a little bit about that, that you will lose our best wages in the country of Croatia if we move on to the euro. And on the other hand, if I do, if the answer is that you will remain in your seats, or that the CNB will continue to exist, what will you do? And maybe the answer is actually like so far, you just won't even be doing shift jobs, and on the protection of the little man, his standard in Croatia, will be nothing. And one particular question, he asked a fellow Scibol, and I'll ask him myself. What did the CNB do not only for your mandate but also for the previous term of office, Governor Rohatinski, on the highest interest rates in Europe? I personally had a non-intentional loan, not interest rate, but raised in... Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bank, which was over 15%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People have been raising and raising 7.8% of their housing and you know it. And what has the CNB done about banks that have been raising profits like nowhere in the world, like nowhere in the EU? And what's your job description? If your job description is this report once a year and you do exchange jobs, so that this kuna is stable, and you do everything the current diameter says, and that's... The euro advocated, with no real economic indicators, and then we don't need you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we really don't need a CNB like this. I would like to see from you specifically, first hear the reasons, why you really didn't deal with these problems, why a few decades ago, did not condition foreign banks to lower interest rates and save Croatian citizens from the economic downturn they are brought into. Unfortunately, speculation continues to exist, unfortunately, I will say you will do everything possible to introduce the euro, and I believe and will repeat that by introducing the euro, it is not a monetary instrument but exclusively a political instrument, which in another important segment will rob us of modernity and more and more and more of us, in fact, of this single EU ring. And I will fight from this position and from every other position against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141190	Now the replica, Mr. Skibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141191	Dear Mr. Zekanovic, I agree with most of your debate, but also with one part of the debate, I can answer your question, what will happen to the governor and his associates when we accept the euro. When we accept the euro, Mr Vujčić will go on three or four times the salary in the European Central Bank and will sit there with the other governors, the states that have accepted the euro and there will be that, if they sell their minds, as here in Croatia, they have done nothing, how well they have maintained the stability of the course, the stability of the prices, and the state is in enormous debt. We have the privatisation of the main state resources and such a monetary servant policy is for every conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141192	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141193	Thank you, Mr. Scibola. I would also like to hear it from the governors who are his plans, would like to hear from the Prime Minister who are the plans, would also like to hear a comment from his colleagues from the opposition from the authorities, a comment on this. Comment on here, pay, how much? 250 thousand kuna, as many as some Croats and Croats currently have or will have in EU bodies. So I wonder if anyone is uncomfortable, is it embarrassing to tell anyone, that for his efforts from Croatian citizens the net gets 40 or 45 thousand kuna, net, in gross is much, much more and that regardless of what the people think and what they think, what they think, will try to bring into Croatia the euro, to go on another 3 times or 4 times the pay. That sounds really bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141194	And the last individual debate, Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141195	Thank you very much, Vice President. I want to say something about... information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy in the second half of 2017 and the beginning of 2018 is the fact that some parliamentary representatives, for days calling for such a topic on the agenda, were not given the day that they did not ask to come to the agenda, when it came to the agenda, they probably have better things to do walking around Zagreb or probably have a lecture or something like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's not too much of what I'm saying. I would like to say that this is a good reading for all of us MPs, regardless of what some have mixed the report on the work of the CNB with this one financial report and what is primarily being destroyed means the leadership of the CNB because, at the same time, all of their forces have been given, that they would probably be at that very bottom, if there were any chance. And they don't yell for themselves, because of the village, but because of themselves, and they probably don't hate to receive it, let's say one of the biggest supramenists gets paid in Euros and they don't hate it and they don't want it in kunas, because the euro is probably a little more stable in some segments, probably. But, of course, the people have the right to hear every opinion, even those that are more modern than everyone else here and somehow more independent than everyone else, and they do it from opportunity to opportunity. What this report says, we need to look back at the period, the political period, in that time we're talking about, it's time means Agrokora, solving the situation in Agrokor, the whole 2017, the beginning of 2018 means somewhere up to 7 months. 2018 and, of course, when you look at these figures, our colleagues from the opposition don't want to agree too much with this, this doesn't seem very real to them because they're more or less positive in all segments and I can't even admit that it's some kind of success of some government that they hate but simply when I can't tell the government that something's wrong, then there's you from the CNB that you're to blame for some situation that's much better than 2015, 2017 better than 2016. What are they ordering? Well, they probably want these banks not to exist or to be in some kind of mess, so they'd probably develop it in their own way, they'd probably do it in some different ways, only known to them, because they can't reconcile with the fact that we're still recording GDP growth, I don't know, 2.8% or that it's increasing I don't know, international reserves, that positive things happen in public finances of the state itself, that we have a surplus in 2017, that they're probably 2018, they can't accept it because for them it's a failure, the success of this government is a failure for them, I can understand that. Is it the perfect state of banking? It's not. When was it? Never. Will it ever be? Probably never. Why? Because we're used to everyone having their reasons for getting in touch with the bank. And what's going on here in our country is that when you enter into a relationship with a bank as an individual, you practically have a part of your own responsibility automatically with a loan to the government or to someone in the municipality or somewhere else because you don't want to admit that you entered that relationship yourself and that this relationship can result in the states that you have today. He's got them, and he can't run away from being gone, he's got people who have problems. Were we financially or financially capable of entering such relationships so that we could just switch the blame to another? Probably not, but there's probably room for us to study. Did the state do everything to solve these situations that were illogical in some way. Yes, and the former SDP government has made a shift in the work of resolving the situation with the francs, this government has made a shift, an attempt to solve the issue of RBA cooperatives in some way in courts, in one correct way that it should still be done there, whether normal expectations that something should happen in terms of having something to write off, we took something, we should write it all off somehow and then nothing should worry too much. So I think every relationship with the bank is the relationship of the individual and the bankers, I mean first of all the individual, and I guess everyone goes into it voluntarily, I don't know who forced himself into these relationships, we have one agent who keeps talking against the banks and seven times he's got into a credit relationship with one bank and then the bank's never good for him. Well, I guess there was something about him too if you went to the bank seven times to borrow, so why did you go if you didn't need it or where you could have gone if you couldn't go to that same bank that didn't work for you? A second colleague to him says he'll never get around before you all get rid of your housing issue, dear citizens, has not yet come to the Parliament, he immediately bought a house of course on loan from the bank and it's all fine but the people say he has a right... So, the people have the right to believe such people, and that's all right, let them fight politically, but the fact is that all these indicators are still saying something, that we are a stable society, that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is always talking about. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] First, it says stability. The stability of political, stability of financial, stability in society, that we can develop normally, that we are not every day in negotiations whether we have enough I don't know, the hand that we can pass laws, whether we have a sufficiently stable system that can finance some production activities, construction, population, whether we can develop as a society in a stable environment or we will develop by destroying everything. We heard the announcements of a candidate that when the first day comes to power, he would immediately abolish all laws, 6,000 laws. And then in the state of lawlessness, we create a new society. So what are those messages? Those should be rewarded, as far as I've figured out, no, or realized because it's actually some kind of policy today. We've heard the sovereigns today as they say, they look at it because they're saying, more sovereign than anyone else, and they're much more fond of that kuna than anyone else. I don't quite agree, everyone loves her in their own way as well as the euro if she's able to have it. So this whole story about this report is actually a story about the stability of a system that generates better conditions than it was in some years and we have to admit, it's not just two people or three people from the CNB, so there are a little more components that they've gathered in one let's say they show it in the report through many segments. So we see how many citizens have deposits. We see what their savings are. We see everything that's going on all over the system. Is that what we want, so probably this report is okay and it's correctly written what it is. Is all the best, so it's probably not like any other country, so we're not going to say that some Republic of Austria had no problem with its banks or any other state, that everyone there was neat and that only as a state everyone acted nice, no one did anything, so there's no such state, at least I know, they all have a certain level of problem, but when this report says that the public debt was reduced at the end of 2017, for I don't know, 2.7%, there's no debate, so today we see that the opposition can't argue with such numbers because it's negative for them, everything that's positive for them is negative, and then we're looking for a reason to argue in the pay of someone I don't know, vice governor or governor in the CNB because it's supposed to be a lot of citizens, because that's why you can have so much pay but it's not, at the same time, but here they're all on the list for better pay, it's not enough for the corporate, because they're all the same thing in our own society, because they's going to argue, because they's the same thing in the same thing in our normal society. That society of equality that everyone talks about, in which all are equal, equal, in which everyone's equal pay, I don't know if there ever was, even in those times when it was spoken of as being an equal society and it was never the same, and then it was more privileged than more or less. So here, this whole story with the banks we see, one was smaller at the end of 2017 that this profit even fell from the 2015 banks. Obviously something's going on in these banks for the benefit of the citizens. We can't say we don't have less interest rates today than we did three years ago. So we see here I am the head of local self-government, so we see the conditions under which we can borrow, I don't know about infrastructure project 1 40, 1 50, which we couldn't dream of 3 years ago, it was all over 2.5, 3% no, and yet something's going on. Now, if it's not as good as it's supposed to be, we'd be in charge of 0.1 if we can get there's even such loans, even, for public lighting, for energy recovery, etc., it depends on the programmes. But speaking negatively about this report, which is basically positive, is basically saying that some have simply lost themselves, and some have not arrived for the report even though they have called for days when they will be at this session and unfortunately here they have not arrived. That's how much I needed to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141196	The first line has Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141197	Thank you very much, fellow Boric. You've drawn some things well, the governor has come to the council after a lot of calls, a man has come out with concrete facts. And all those who spend all their time telling some of their stories had a chance to relocate with him in the assembly today. So, he put out the facts, they tell some stories of their own, so today it could all get nice together and finally come up with some truth. For years, however, he has told only one story that has no practical application and is impossible to apply in any economy, or even in an agreed socialist, but nice for the sense, when someone says a loss of 2 billion is achieved. When someone explains why it happened, then, on the other hand, pain and silence. So this is built into the law exclusively with a difference, for the reason that parliamentary deputies can in the assembly sexize with the governor about monetary policy, about anything he's here to answer them. However, their stories are inapplicable And then there's no controversy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141198	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141199	Thank you very much, fellow Shuker, so I'm saying that they had a great extraordinary opportunity here the governor is here to ask him absolutely everything I realized that they asked him or realized that they asked him if he knew what his salary was. Nothing else actually interests them too much because it probably itches them even though they've all shown some ambition to be governors of that CNB as well as there is here you heard you very simply there is nothing doing as far as I understand it, no. And it just seems to them that such a relationship with some institutions is simplified to this level that it can be done by a child in kindergarten has become indeed in this assembly already incomprehensible and not normal, no. But here's the thing, the opportunity is already gone, and a lot of people have called and missed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141200	Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141201	I thank the esteemed Vice President, my colleague Boric I am not telling stories here, I speak only arguments, the banks robbed 300,000 citizens with unfair interest rates, interest rates such as did not negotiate west of Croatia, and I said that it was the CNB responsible for that which did not prevent the banks from acting like this, but I did present the testimony of a lawyer who said that the bank here was doing so because it allowed the CNB. And you're letting it happen, you're talking about financial literacy, it's about legal uncertainty, it's about banks breaking the law, it's not about finances, it's about rights you don't know about, and because you don't know it because you claim these things as you claim. So, I'm saying that the banks robbed 300,000 citizens, I'm saying that the CNB allowed it, and I'm saying that you're allowing it because you're not going to pass the law that needs to be passed in order for people to be compensated rather than say go to court. That's the simplest thing to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141202	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141203	Thank you very much, fellow Alexic. You're really dealing with the issues of banks and you're doing it the whole term and I don't have anything to add to it, and I think you're doing a very good job on this subject, which doesn't mean that I'm wrong about what I said. Because it rules out the guilt of someone getting into a relationship with the bank, that it comes down to that word of yours that someone robbed someone, then in a way, he voluntarily robbed him because he entered into that relationship voluntarily. Again, if he was in financial writing, he agreed to it, if you agree, and that wouldn't make any sense, would it? So in the whole story, I said that the state did in certain processes what it could, changing the laws and trying to model something about these laws to make a difference to those citizens. Now you're inviting them to sue, why you have to call them if they're conscious they're robbed and they won't sue the banks, there. Why do you have such a problem for everyone to respond and to come to their own justice? If I understood rightly, even to offer certain lawyers who would be willing to do so, if I understood correctly. So that whole story is a little bit wider than what you said. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141204	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Boric. I'm glad you've come to understand one mistake that HDZ made even though it's rare for you to understand, and it's about the sovereigns. So you've seen how unworthy they themselves are, but these sovereigns in the assembly and those in Brussels are sitting exactly thanks to HDZ because if they hadn't been on your lists they would never have sat there. And I'm glad you guys got to know that mistake, so you brought them into Croatian public space and you're not going to do it again. And I'd like to look back at these reports that you said are getting better and better every year, and that's exactly what I said in my debate, and let's say some of the guidelines that these reports indicate that, in the coming years, it would be better and better if we didn't get this from these indicators that the CNB points out we don't see the direction that we should have so that there's another crisis that we won't be prepared for. So these reports should also be looked at by pro futuro, not just backwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141206	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141207	Thank you very much, fellow Djujic, as far as the sovereigns are concerned, they have appeared in the last year and there has even been a struggle between them who is more sovereign, so who can be more sovereign in this independent state to be just as sovereign that no one can do anything to him, no. So let's leave it to them, when they were coming to HDZ lists, that's not how this guy declared himself, and that's something to go through. And as for the very reports that they are referring to, so I think that the government is in this direction and is leading absolute and public finances and the whole public finance story to be a stable society with stable public finances that can solve both the worst or the most difficult problems as a problem arises, I don't know the shipyards where to pay, I don't know how many guarantees, and then it doesn't affect the individual income or the profit of every citizen so that such situations don't happen. I think we've seen it, and now that it's been paid, I don't know how many billion kuna guarantees that didn't happen... Public finances and probably what happened in 2016 and 2017 and 2018 have reasons to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141208	Time, time. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141209	Here, fellow Boric, you spoke of stability, interest and so on, colleagues forget what it means to be stable and what it means to be in the East when we have an example that non-purpose loans are 12% there, that in us 7, what housing loans are here now, what they were in the previous period of 5 or 10 years ago, and all of them think that they happened by themselves, that no one should have worked there either, nor used certain resources, nor reached certain arrangements. And in the end, do everything to make it possible for all of us to benefit from it both as a state and as a citizen and as individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141210	Answer, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141211	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, I remember a minister of finance from the former governments who said every interest is good if someone wants to give us money. This was the time of 2012, 2011, etc. And that's the fact that we lived in such a time and we had to understand it as well as good success. Today, when I don't know how to raise the level of investment rating that we have the opportunity to re-promise ourselves for cheaper money, etc., to reprogram some more expensive loans for cheaper ones we're experiencing here in the Parliament, you've seen for yourself in a way that it's actually negative and that those who have managed to do so should actually change as soon as possible so that those who want to mess up, anarchy, lawlessness, which in every topic is recognised in a way that it's negative, that there's such a depression in society that just makes us all think as soon as possible of leaving this country. It's not like that, and you have to stand up to them and tell them clearly how things are. And let this report read that they deny themselves in many of their own thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141212	In the end, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141213	Thank you, well-respected fellow Boric, when you spoke about the positive results of this financial, semi-annual financial report and you touched Agrokora and in fact few of us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, so I believe neither the governor nor his associates can imagine what would happen to this breakdown of Agrokor or to workers, suppliers, small OPGs, businesses or GDP itself. The government had only four options at the time. Do nothing, nationalize the company, give it 2 billion kuna or pass the Law on trading societies of systemic importance. She decided on this fourth, and that's why these results are good. Today, at this moment, all of us in the Croatian Parliament have forgotten the situation. I'm saying that if it happened with unwanted consequences, the question is how would this and the next report be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141214	Answer, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141215	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić, so I just said that this report or these, just that year at the end of 2017, the beginning of 2018 the greatest battles about how to solve the issue of Agrokor. And let's remember the signs of the opposition, they were for bankruptcy, they offered solutions that led that firm or those companies into bankruptcy. You had those on the other side who advocated the law that resulted in the settlement and continuation of the business of that company and such a society. And in such a relationship to achieve a certain level of numbers that are written here is actually a success that is not to be admitted to anyone. And of course in such situations he resorts to the easiest stories. And we've heard today one that there's never been more indifference in the banking system than one MP. I don't know how he got that, but I think it's never more of a liquidity now. And this report only tells us how much the CNB has made possible... some 15 billion dollars in exchange for foreign exchanges, liquidity throughout the system so that we can do normal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141216	Now we're going to the final words of the clubs. Mr. Branko Grcic will speak in front of the SDP final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141217	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Governor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here we talk a lot, a lot about stability, big results etc., etc., some of the results macroeconomicly began at the time of the government where I was involved, and then we went from this negative story to economic growth, and on that wave, economic growth happened for the last 2, 3 years. However, this economic growth is just one component and an insufficient component that I spoke about earlier. So when we talk about stability, then we can't just talk about stability in monetary terms. So the first lesson in economic universities on stability, or rather on key economic goals, says economic growth, low employment and low inflation, a relatively acceptable inflation rate. So that's stability, when you achieve all these three goals then you have stability in the economy and macroeconomics, including, of course, the monetary sphere. Here we are, of course, talking primarily about stability in the monetary sector, monetary policy management, its effects etc., etc. today. However, I have warned earlier about some other indicators and my colleague Lalovec also scored on certain parameters of macroeconomic which do not go exactly in the right direction that we all think about and who we all want, regardless of sitting in a position or opposition, because I think someone who does not think so or does not belong here, but we must objectively talk about the problems facing the Croatian economy, which is too low in economic growth, I will tell you only one fact. In 2007, when Croatia went into crisis, together with all other countries, 6 countries looked in the back of Croatia after the GDP per capital, 6 countries. I don't know, Hungary, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Bulgaria and Romania. Today only Bulgaria is behind us. That's a fact. That's Eurostat data. When you turn it into a GDP per capital per power, by the parity of purchasing power, we might be a little bit better, but not enough. Your wages are slightly more than in these countries that I was just talking about, but the high level of prices again reduces the purchasing power of these salaries and again puts us somewhere on the bottom of a scale of European countries. Here we also talked about a key issue waiting for Croatia and especially the CNB in terms of promotion and preparation for possible entry into the Eurozone. Yes, and we, as the opposition party and the party who acted as the government in this country, are responsibly approaching this issue and are ready to support all the good things that will lead to this act, therefore, we are in principle in favour of this idea. At the same time, however, we are warning of all the shortcomings currently in the system that are currently disrupting this stability and this very clear stable trend in Croatia's growth and development, which in certain situations of some new crises, some new challenges, with the euro can also bring Croatia into a situation, as has brought some other countries during the crisis that broke out in 2007, i.e. 8, 9, etc. Therefore, if you unprepared go into this story, especially in terms of the strength of the economy, its competitiveness, etc., etc. and all of those positive effects from the introduction of the euro, such as avoiding currency risk, lower transaction costs, lower interest rates, all of this can be questioned again by this new crisis. And that's why we have to warn the macro-pointers, who at this point are saying that things in some segments are going backwards, not going forward. And of course, there's the responsibility of the government. in the sense of implementing all those reforms that the governor just cited here. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141218	Now it's Mr. Goran Aleksic's turn in front of the Living Walls Club and the SNAGA, final five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141219	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear Governor Vujčić and his colleagues. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, after explaining very simply what is the problem with unfair interest, still individual representatives, I will not name them, they argue that we should be financially written, that we have agreed to such contractual relations and similar flossules. I personally signed a loan agreement in which a variable interest rate was agreed which changes with the bank's decision and I didn't see anything wrong with it. I didn't know it was wrong, and that's not how it's supposed to be done. I wasn't the only one who signed those contracts. Such contracts were signed by both bankers and lawyers and economists, but despite the fact that one of them might have known that it was not allowed to do so, such a contractual provision is unfair again, such a contractual provision is again invaluable and yet such contract provision is not valid, although the one who signed it may have known that such a thing should not be signed. Because the law makes that clear. Such contractual provision, the interest rate that is amended by the decision of the Bank shall not apply to legal persons or to natural persons. The mandatory relationship law is clear. The contractual procedure must be determined and the trader offering the type contract in a manner to be taken or left shall be responsible for such contractual provisions which do not comply with the law. Just a merchant, not the other side. Well, even if the other side was a legal person, she's still not responsible, she's the one who offered such a contract. And for that reason, to all those who continue to suspect what I am saying, I will repeat the words I heard at the legal seminar, in Opatija, the words of the President of the Civil Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, Damir Kontrec, who, after being in Pula, the County Court in Pula, refused to pay an unfair amount of interest to one consumer because he was an economist, though, broker, so the court in Pula, the County Court said, he was a broker, so he had to know that. After that, after such a verdict, the President of the Civil Court Department of the Supreme Court at a seminar in Opatija said so. If something is found unfair, it is unfair for everyone, even if he was the Supreme Court judge. So there's no fence, there's no fence, there's someone who knew, he didn't know. What must not be agreed must not be agreed. It is the bank that should not have negotiated such unfair contractual provisions, and it is the CNB that had to prohibit such an arrangement because it is systematic, it is not an individual case. It was systematically done on purpose. It's a robbery of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's a systematic robbery. How banks mothers don't work in their countries they come from. But they did it here because the market used to be responsible here, so the banks, which were working in the socialist Republic, agreedly, applied the interest rate exactly like that, but they didn't damage the citizens, but they did all of this in a kind of agreed manner, so in the end, even the state would be at risk, actually. However, that is not the way capitalism should work. We have come to capitalism, we have come to the sphere of mandatory relations, which come from Roman law. However, it was worth it before, only it was not applied. However, since the citizens have not been damaged, no one has objected, we are now rebelling. And I now expect from you fellow MPs and fellow MPs, that once the review of the Supreme Court has been established, the final sentence, in the case of the franc, to accept the legal solution, the systematic solution, the compensation of all consumers, and on the basis of the interest rate and potentially on the basis of the unfairly agreed currency clause CHF if the audit finds that it is finally unfair. I will lobby in this direction and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, lobby here among you, it is our duty to enable this to be systematically resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141220	And now Mr. Governor Boris Vujcic will speak on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141221	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs thank you very much for your discussions and comments and questions, and I will try very briefly to address some of the things that I think have been clearly formulated as issues in this debate, but I will try not to owe. Maybe we should start with this last one in a comment by the esteemed representative Alexic. We've talked about this a lot, and he knows it in the CNB, and we're going to keep talking about it a lot. I'm not a lawyer, he knows it, then he wouldn't get into what's legal or not legal. But from this very thing he said, it turns out that the CNB was supposed to ban it in 1991, '92, '93, then '94, and when I became governor, it was already changed. That's all I'm gonna say. And he knows that I supported, along the way, the bonding of interest rates with a referendum of interest rates, that it is regulated legally, at that moment, yes, not to be administrative, and that the CNB will go to work on the work of courts, it will not and can't work, so we can do what we can. What we can do, it was the same question earlier in the debate, is affecting interest rates. So contrary to what was said, interest rates are lower in Croatia at this time, as I said, than in any other EU country, which is not a member of the Eurozone. And interest rates on cash loans and interest rates on housing loans. So once again, lower, than in any other country, which is not a member of the Eurozone. If we want them to fall further, as you wish, then support your entry into the Eurozone, then it will continue to fall. That's the thing. They are lower in Slovakia and Slovenia because they are members of the Eurozone. So it is contradictory to be against entering the Eurozone and to call out why interest rates are not like in Germany, for example. Moreover, in Germany, interest rates are also lower, meaning interest rates, other than monetary policy, which can be as expensive as you want, are naturally affected by the risk of the country, which is influenced by the overall economic situation and not only by monetary policy. As for inflation issues and the dangers of future price increases, I would say that at the moment we do not see a short-term risk of inflation growth, however, we see a lower rate of inflation in 2019 than in 2018. First of all, because the average annual rate of energy and nutrition prices will be lower than 2018. At that time we had a stronger impact on energy prices and on food, in part, food due to the reduction of VAT rates on food products, and energy, if we look at oil, was growing stronger in 2018 than we expect at this time and what is realised in at least the first quarter for 2019. For 2020 I would say that we expect a slight increase in inflation that should primarily come from the energy sector, as a further rise in energy prices is expected, however, it will be mitigated if VAT rates are announced from 25, to 24%, and we estimate that the impact on price increases from VAT reductions from 25, to 24% could be minus 0.3%. Which would ease this, so we expect inflation to be 1.2% in 2020, which is a risk for these projections, are fundamental that if the growth rate in the global economy means in the world is lower than what is now expected, the rise in energy prices will be lower, or perhaps at all, it will even go down, which would affect the lower inflation rate. If there is a stronger recovery, an economy, say, compared to what was at the end of last year, then that inflation rate could be slightly higher, largely depending on growth in China, which significantly determines energy prices at the moment. But, globally speaking, at this point in some period of the next 2 years, we do not see any significant risk of rising inflation prices, in general in Croatia. What I'm going to do about this second part of your question, where we see the possibility of further price growth, is say the real estate market, and that's about your question, where you asked what happened to the deposits in the banks, since passive interest rates went down. So what you can see is that part of these deposits, as they end up being held, turns into deposits in the current account. People just don't disappoint anymore, we don't have any more savings, it's all down to the current account because it's such a low interest rate that for 0.1 0.2 people don't even try to rebuild. We have a slight outflow of these assets towards asset management funds that offer.../incomprehensible/... these are people who are more prone to taking some risk we see it, but it's relatively little for total savings and what we see as it can and at this point somewhat affects the rise of prices on the real estate market is that part of that money goes into real estate. So if you already have three or four years of money in the bank, if your interest rate is close to zero, and if you expect it won't go up what you're doing, you go and buy real estate. So you see at this point the growth of real estate building, buying, transactions growing, and you don't see that your housing loans are growing. Why? Is a good part of the cash now moving from savings accounts to buying real estate, and it encourages further growth in real estate, but some revenue is still being made on the property. So you're better off with renting and 3.4% than in the bank having 0%. Part of the people waited to see if the interest rates would go down, as these perspectives at this time did not decide otherwise to engage those funds. As for your questions for preparations for the EUR, and when it's a good time, by my deep conviction, the good time was yesterday, the best one would be yesterday, it's even better today and the third one is the best tomorrow or as soon as possible. Simply because Croatia has nothing to lose in, by introducing EUR, it can only get. So what you might lose is gone anyway. We maintain the stability of the course, we cannot lead an active, active course policy. Why we cannot run an active exchange rate policy, precisely because much of the debt is related to the EURo. So as I explained to you, if the course were to depreciate 10% of what someone thinks would help the Croatian economy, it would be exactly the opposite of that that would be pro-recessional. She'd go into recession. Why? Because 140% of GDP is debt, which means 1.4 times the debt associated with the EURo. Which means 10% of our deprocia rate is raising our debt by 14% of GDP. So few companies have to invest, so few households have to spend and so many more countries have to increase taxes or reduce consumption. So he and C and I and G fall and then you and then the difference between exports and imports can't even make up for it in a country that has such high euroisation. So we don't have the practical possibility of active exchange rate policy, if it had the CNB it would be perfectly safe to implement it, we know the economy well enough that we can calculate what's good for the Croatian economy. On the other hand, we have all these benefits from the introduction of the EUR, meaning the disappearance of the exchange rate risk which is the biggest financial risk in Croatia and the pressure on the drop in interest rates. Keeping everything else constant regulatory costs going down, the risk of falling and interest rates going further down, so that's where we're approaching the euro zone. All the countries that introduced the EURo, I think that's the best explanation for all the skeptics, I see that there are them here, but a very simple explanation is why it's good to introduce the EURo. See what happened in the countries that introduced the EURo. I was recently at the 5th anniversary celebration of the introduction of the EUR in Latvia. Before the introduction of the EUR into Latvia, support was 36% per poll, now after 5 years after the introduction of 80%. In Slovenia 80%, in Slovakia 80%, in Estonia means in principle after you enter support it is still growing significantly, it certainly would not be if people were disappointed that the name was bad, it would certainly not grow in support of the introduction of the EUR. Therefore, it tells us nicely that those countries that did this, and made them a large part at a lower level of real convergence than we're going to enter, means at a lower percapital GDP per buy-in power than we're going to enter, were satisfied after entering. Then why would we delay it when it's going to be something, something good? Of course, in this process, it would be great to do structural reforms as I repeat all the time. Why? Just because the roof is being repaired when it's a good time, and now it's a good time and it's going to continue for sure for us for the next two years to be a relatively good time, unless there's some significant crisis in our environment, and that's exactly the time when we can do structural reforms, when there's a huge demand on the labour market for workers, there can be a reduction in the number of workers where we know there are too many, they will find a much easier job. The budgeting is better because GDP is growing, so we can do the reforms that are needed means saving in areas where this needs to be done. So we have to do it without the EUR and with the EUR, that's good for us. So, all that's good to do for joining the EUR is to work well without joining the EUR. The EUR-o can only be an additional incentive to make such a thing and we see it as a positive contribution. What will the CNB do here again I connect some earlier discussions, what will the CNB do after the introduction of the EUR? So they will do what the central banks are doing in all the countries that have introduced the EURo, the governor if it will be me sitting in the Council of the European Central Bank and together with all the other governors forming the monetary policy of the euro area. And the governor of the CNB has the same voice weight as the governor of Germany or France or Italy, because it's not a big deal with GDP, but every country has one vote, which if you want it to get us to hit above our weight. And with our colleagues there, we're running a policy that's good for the entire euro area, and I can tell you that at this point, not one country of those mentioned does not want to get out of the euro zone. And in Greece, let's say the EUR support among the population is 2/3 for the EUR. So that's something that turned out to be good for other countries again. The one where it was a question of what the CNB was doing. The CNB I think shows experience over the past few years, shows all the grades. Look at anyone who appreciates the work of our institution that has any credibility in the world, thinks we've been doing a very good job for many years. So, we've maintained the stability of the course and this maintenance of the stability of the course is exactly something that benefits the citizens because what we've been saying, what Mr. Alexic was saying, the Swiss franc, so there's just been a problem with these loans because the domestic currency has been depreciated so the debt obligations of the population have grown. So we maintain the stability of the course precisely because the debt mandatory sectors of the population, the business and the state sectors would not grow and we successfully maintained it, it's not trivial. Especially not trivial in a country that had as much external vulnerabilities as we had, say, in 2007, in 2008 and through the crisis. We maintained the stability of the banking system. It's also not trivial, of course no one, when things are good, notices that they're good. When they're bad, they're really bad. In Croatia, the kuna of tax money has not been given to rehabilitate banks since the 1990s, meaning from the recovery of banks from the time of Yugoslavia. Which means that we have done a better job than in most EU countries. Tax bonds in Germany gave money. Tax bonds in Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, Slovenia, the 3 largest banks have failed. I remember the time when I had debates here in the 2000s, for example, in 2003, 4th, 5th, when some of my representatives, and some who are presently representatives, and at that time were academics, claimed that it was Croatia's big mistake to privatise banks, that they should be state-owned, as in Slovenia. And that Slovenia is exactly what we should look up to. As a result, the three state-owned banks in Slovenia were all bankrupt, costing more than 30% of the taxpayer's GDP in Slovenia. That's what you do, it's the result of your involvement in banking policy. Just get your policy out of banking, that's the best way to maintain a healthy banking system. Otherwise, the experience shows, our, Croatian, from the past, today, means both neighbours and other countries, it is full of problems and the need to capitalise these banks. Besides, remember how many times we had to capitalize on HPB. What else is good about that? If you look at today's comparison of Croatia to the stability of this system with other countries, there is something called... which is looking at you, if you take in all banks the bad loans that are not booked, assume they will be charged with 0%, is that any cost to taxpayers? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guarantee you, not in Croatia. They can be a peaceful state, a budget, bonds, it won't happen to them because we made sure we had such a stable banking system. Here, that's what we did. These are things that can be done by the central bank, that's what the law put into office. We can't order someone to put interest rates here and there, we can't order someone to pay someone money because someone thinks the contract is legal or illegal, that's what courts have to do. We say, it was mentioned, these agencies whether to collect claims, it's also not something that can have no legal means for the CNB to do anything at this point. There is an EU directive now that, when adopted, it may be the CNB that will be able to be partially regulated there, but for now, this framework does not exist. However, there is a Consumer Protection Act, which defines what is an unfair practice. Aggressive business practice, harassment, it already exists. This Parliament has passed this law and it is known who is in charge of this law, therefore, if there is a problem, you should look for it there, not as in that old joke, so don't look for the keys there where the light is, but where you lost them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141222	Thank you, too. Mr. Alexic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141223	Thank you. Dear Governor Vujčić, you're constantly saying that you're not a lawyer and you don't understand the facts I'm saying. Ignored yuris at night, because you're not a lawyer, that doesn't justify you. I don't know the right for a governor is an excuse. We've been telling you since 2011-2014 that interest rates are illegal, you've kept the notice that they're legal. After that we said that the definition of parameters without a contract was illegal, you were talking again, I'm talking about CNB, that it was all right, that the Supreme Court would confirm this year that it was wrong. So all I'm saying is, eventually, the court confirms that it is. However, this is a systemic problem that we need to solve systematically. We can't let you say we didn't resuscitate the banks, so we didn't resuscitate them, but your inaction allowed banks to rob 15 billion kuna from citizens, so that's 15 billion kuna taken from the citizens of the bank, not recovered, but taken from the citizens. Your cannon is as if the banks had been rescheduled, and they shouldn't have been.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141224	We've already told each other so many times that we don't need to go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141225	Mr. Scibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141226	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Wolfie. You've said a lot of misinformation, but I don't have time to decontaminate them all, so I'll just have some. So you said that the price rise when we enter the Eurozone is a myth, not a reality. I would say that the myth is the increase in wages and that prices will certainly rise, why, so I'm not saying it, so the official data says EUROSTAT tells Mr. Vujčić, EUROSTAT says that the least prices will rise when we introduce the euro, 0.3%, EUROSTAT says that and you say that it's a myth and they're going to grow much higher, we know it from experience, for example. from Italy, from Slovenia, they put the lira and the euro in Italy, which is what you intend to do in Croatia, means to place marks but after 4.5 months. When it moves, prices rise. It's the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141227	Thank you. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141228	The following are the facts, EUROSTAT says that prices will increase by 0.23% on average in the euro-introduction countries in the year they introduced the euro, so that's the effect of introducing the euro. Furthermore, EUROSTAT shows that in most of the countries that introduced the euro, in the year when they introduced the euro, the inflation rate was lower than in other countries of the new Member States of Central and Eastern Europe in that same year, which means that the euro had no bad impact on price growth. What someone says today is that coffee costs 1 euro and 20 years ago, '99. When the euro was introduced it cost 1 mark, it's true but also if you go over to the CNB's to drink beer, it still costs twice as much today as it cost in '99. When I started working at the CNB, but it's not because we introduced the euro, and in 20 years, that beer will probably cost twice as much again, but it has nothing to do with the introduction of the euro, so I say it's a myth to spread that I don't know how it's going to increase prices due to the introduction of the euro, it won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141229	Mr. Bunzak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141230	Thank you very much. Governor Vujčić, you have said one sentence that has completely revealed you as a fanatical bank propagandaist, which is namely an inexplicable and incorrect claim that by introducing the euro we have nothing to lose. So it's a claim that even an amateur in politics, in the economy, would dare say even a small child because it's quite clear that by introducing the euro we have something to lose and only we can discuss how much we can lose and further isolate the example of Latvia as something successful in the EU, means a country that has broken out over 40% of the population in the past 3 decades, a country in which Latvians will almost become minorities, a country where literally there is a wasteland where 70-year-olds work in shops and cafes, it's also a very difficult failure, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141231	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141232	Well, I don't know what to answer because you didn't say what we were gonna lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141233	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141234	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Governor, I have read little of it now and before your discussion of certain articles and comments, so I have read the article of one of our prominent economists, Maruska Vizek, who speaks of the cost of adjusting the economy to recession once the same economy is left without its currency and she claims that the cost of this adjustment is being passed over the labour market and materialised in the form of wage cuts and layoffs. Namely, when an economy that has its currency enters the recession, there is a decline in the currency which contributes to exports themselves and a faster exit from the recession. Here's one of the possible arguments why it's not good to lose your own currency and you here as governor said there's no reason why it would be bad to lose your own currency, so you weren't entirely objective, of course it has the advantage of introducing the euro but there's certainly a lot of shortcomings.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141235	Time. Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141236	This is a concrete flaw that you cited, simply in Croatian case does not work, why? Because I repeat what I said in that final word, 140% of Croatia's debt to the euro, and then this depreciation mechanism if there is a recession, deepens recession and does not help recovery. If that weren't the case, if we weren't such a Eurosed country, that would be different, then this argument would be worth it, in this case it's not worth it, so we have nothing to lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141237	And in the end, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141238	Thank you very much. Mr. Vujčić, you have answered all my questions and I am satisfied with the answers, but I have one more question, so in this debate today, Agrokor also mentioned himself at one point, so if we know that Agrokor ended business with profits in the past year, and according to the deals in the last year, no loans were returned, or Agrokor was not returning his loans, but in this year began to return these loans and that they were returning them last year, the question was probably not, I am interested in your opinion, is Agrokor now being brought back to a peaceful port, and can we be able, since this is our largest company to be calm and peaceful and whether this government has done a good job or whether Agrokora still needs to be awake and watch what will happen, or whether Croatia is threatening to the situation in Agrokor, which could happen in the next period?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141239	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141240	So I'd just say a partial answer to this question, I wouldn't want to evaluate at this point the situation of Agrokor, I have some opinion but I'm not an investment analyst or a paid-for-all or even allowed to say it, but I'd say that the greatest risk that came from Agrokor was eliminated anyway. So that big risk was to have a bankruptcy that would be messy and most of the believers, these are suppliers of companies and banks, they wouldn't charge. What happened now is that suppliers charged 70%, that banks were able to limit the risks the same because there was no chain reaction, if suppliers fell then the debt would increase and therefore we estimate that the risk of Agrokor is no longer systemic at this point. What will happen in the future with the company, it depends on the new owners, they will determine, I would say that the critical point is just now to refinance a new one because it is currently their long rally in that roll up and they have to refinance it, it will happen I think very quickly so it will be clearer what the future of the company is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141241	So, I conclude the debate, there were two points in the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2017 and the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of achievement of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2018. I conclude the debate by means of these points and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141242	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The applicant is CNB. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: It takes note of the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2017, please vote. I find that most of the votes are 107 ZA, 2 abstentions and 14 against the conclusion proposed by the National Assembly Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141353	Now we move to the last item today, today's agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Tax on Income, first reading, P.Z. the number 446 is proposed by the SDP Representatives Club on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by 3 committees, for legislation, for the financial state budget, for the work of the pension system and social partnership. We have the government's opinion, Mr. Davor Bernardic is already here who certainly wants to present the law while he's here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141354	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, at first I must express one regret that this debate is obvious when it comes to important matters for Croatian citizens, and these are their salaries, these are their pensions, coming at a time targeted by the ruling, president of the assembly and the ruling majority to which HDZ belongs to hide from the eyes of the public. That's your goal. So, to raise wages, salaries, pensions, health care systems, all those things that bother Croatian citizens at night. That's the way you work. However, we will not give up on our salary increase plan, and we must look back on some facts anyway. The fact is that the total wage growth in Croatia is still far from the one that would reduce the pay gap in Croatia and wages in the most developed EU countries in which our people are moving. For example, it is. The net salary in Denmark is 4 times higher than the salary in Croatia, in Ireland more than 3 times higher, in Germany 3 times higher. The latest available tax administration data from 2018 show that, imagine half, so 50% of the number of 1,600,000 employees has a net salary of less than 5,400 kuna, that is a median, less than 5,400 kuna, and that is almost 1,000 kuna less than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. The following shocking data is that the distribution of salaries is such that nearly 1,200,000 employees in wages are below average wage, so 75% of people in this country receive 3/4 wages below average. Also, there are still a huge number of employees who work and do not receive salaries, and when the number increases for those who spend most of the year mostly on sick leave or those who work part-time we get to the number that is alarming. That more than 200,000 people in Croatia have incomes that are less than 3,000 kuna, 3,000 kuna. Therefore, wages in Croatia are still low, but prices are therefore European. Several data, before the 2007 economic crisis, Croatia achieved a GDP per capital greater than Hungary, larger than Lithuania, larger than Latvia, larger than Poland, larger than Romania, larger than Bulgaria. In 2018, only Romania and Bulgaria are looking at our backs. For example. Irish GDP is even 5 times the size of Croatia. When observing the impact of high levels of European prices on the GDP per capital according to so-called ‘GDP’. The parity of purchasing power can then be seen that in 2018 only Bulgaria is looking at us. So Bulgaria is the only one of all European countries under the standard even slightly lower than Croatia. All the other countries are ahead of us. And that's the key that's the result of your work, the work of this government. When accumulating the price level of key goods of final consumption, it is seen that countries such as the mentioned Hungary, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Romania or Bulgaria still have lower prices than Croatia, but 4 of them 6 have reached Croatia in the achieved output per capital. I will list some examples, in food prices and non-alcoholic beverages that participate in consumption with 30% of personal consumption, we are on the index 97% compared to the EU average, so 97% of the EU average, Romania is the lowest with 66%. As far as the price of clothing is concerned, Croatia is above the EU average of 101, Bulgaria is, for example, Bulgaria. Lowest at 80, in shoe prices Croatia is at 97, Bulgaria at 78. These two categories participate in 7% of total consumption. Imagine in house equipment prices Croatia is at 97, Poland, for example. At 77, and in the prices of electronic appliances, our index is 109%, for example, Ireland has 86%. What does that mean? That electronic appliances in Croatia are 25% more expensive than in Ireland where people go. Prices of vehicles not to speak. In the price of transport services, people, e.g. Croatia is at 86%, Bulgaria 46%, so Bulgarians drive twice as cheap as Croats. And imagine this in the price of communication services index is 91, Poland is at 45, that means that Poles pay twice as cheaply for communications, phones from people living in Croatia and that's scandalous. According to this, this data suggests that we have almost European prices in Croatia, and that we are significantly lagging behind both GDP and wages at European average. We also witness that every day life costs rise, mostly the cost of directing, especially electricity. Imagine what it's like with such small incomes. Hard to live for citizens in the City of Zagreb, which is one of the most expensive European cities when it comes to directing. Unfortunately, that's not the end of it. The vast majority of workers after retirement cannot live with dignity from their pension. Half a million pensioners live on the edge of poverty. They feed badly and do not have adequate quality health care. But there are also those in our country who do not receive salaries for their work as workers on May 3rd and in the Uljanics, and this is unfortunately a picture of today’s Croatia. The last so-called. Under quotes the government's tax reform has paid only 15 thousand of the richest in principle take the poor to give to the rich. The vast majority of the citizens of this measure had absolutely nothing, and that is why we in the SDP have a solution to raise salaries precisely for that vast majority of citizens. By increasing the personal deduction or the non-taxable part of income from 3 thousand 800 to 5 thousand kuna, Croatia’s wages would currently increase between 330 and 500 kn per month, especially those at least. What matters is wages would rise without extra cost for employers, so this is also a measure that aims to increase competitiveness. This is not only a proposal that will allow wage increases, but also reduce the total cost of working in Croatia, which is the most burdensome form of self-inflictedness. In the SDP, we do not see the logic that work is burdened several times more than capital or rent income. By reducing labour costs, we give space to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who employ more than half of all employees in Croatia, who are now operating at the edge of profitability and who are the first to hire people at their local level and help stop eviction. Who are the target group of our proposal to raise salaries, and why is the proposal very realistic and beneficial for hundreds of thousands of Croatian workers? The target group is all those employed citizens who have a salary greater than 4 thousand kuna and who have the chance to raise their salaries, which are primarily beginners, trainees, young people who do not yet have children and additional tax benefits on children or dependent family members. But the target group is all other employees who have relatively low wages, but they also belong to the so - called so - called “low wages. ” the medium layer that is growing in Croatia, which has remained completely out of the influence of the HDZ government's latest tax reform. So it's about those whose wages would grow. They're teachers, teachers, nurses, doctors, engineers, informers and others. And now, for example, if we take a young magistrate who is employed in his first job and today has a income of 5 thousand kuna. Gross is 6 grand 250 kuna. He will pay taxes and cut about 300 kuna and his net salary will be 4 thousand 670 kuna. With this change of salary, it would cost him 5 thousand kuna or 330 kuna more. If we take a lady who works as a saleswoman and today has a income of 5 thousand kuna, and her husband is employed, on his tax card, and he's already taken advantage of the tax benefits on children. The lady pays the tax also 330 kuna and receives a net salary of 4000 670 kuna. With this change of salary, it will rise to 5 thousand kuna or 330 kuna more. If we take for example. A teacher who has reported one child on her tax card is today a tax deduction of 5 grand 550 kuna. Gentlemen of the HDZ, I know it's funny to you, but I know it's funny to you. You prefer expensive watches, Mercedes, fairies, extra squares. From where? So let us finish, try to help people with low wages. Well, not everyone can be as successful as you. How will he be as successful as you? Well, the sons of your 22-year-old MPs have hotels. So tell us, how are you so successful? How are these people so successful? So tell us, give us an explanation. So tell people a secret. These 2/3 in Croatia work for 75%, 3/4 works for salaries that are less than average salary. So give the secret how successful you are, and 3/4 Croatian citizens can't be. If we take a teacher who has a single child registered on her tax card, her tax deduction today is 5,500 kuna. If her income today is 6 thousand 400 kuna, so far she has paid taxes and taxes of 235 kuna, and her net salary is 6 thousand 165 kuna. After this change, the personal deduction will amount to 6 thousand 750 kuna which is more than income, so it will not pay taxes which will increase its salary to 6 thousand 400 or 235 kuna. All other employees, for example. with income of 7 thousand kuna, 10 thousand kuna or 12 thousand kuna or more will have a secure salary growth of 330 kuna, as their personal deduction increases from 3 thousand 800 to 5 thousand kuna or from 5 thousand 550 kuna to 6 thousand 750 kuna if they have one child or one dependent family member. Therefore, an increase in the deduction by 1,000 kuna means a lower obligation to pay taxes and taxes by 330 kuna and the same amounts to a rise in net wages. What should be said is that this proposal is quite realistic and feasible because what is important is that the same proposal does not take money from municipalities and cities from their budgets, because it is intended that instead of the current 83% now the 100th amount of income tax belongs to local self-government units. It's about two billion kunas that have been filling so far. A balancing fund. That fund, according to our plan, would be filled with 1% of the VAT. It is a measure that would cost much less than the money that the state gave up through the reduction of VAT on meat and vegetables, which the citizens did not have much use for, because the food was not cheap. And what happened was exactly what we were warning them about, additionally by reducing VAT on meat and vegetables, they were enriched by the owners of the trade chains. Citizens had no use for that. It's still expensive. And there's a question. Why does the Government narrow down the space for further tax redundancies through its policies with the absence of reforms and the pump of the public sector? Although everyone warns the HDZ government, therefore independent agencies, institutions, analysts that Croatia has low growth potential and that this will remain because of the lack of reforms, the government is acting exactly the other way around. The public sector continues to pump with enormous, unnecessary and completely missed employment by party and party close people, which ultimately leads to the issue, and who will ultimately really do so in Croatia in any weak economy, who will actually fill the budget. If such a policy continues, Croatia could come to new deficits, imbalances and instability very quickly. Therefore, there is no valid reason for this government not to start thinking about people in Croatia, little about citizens, little about people who have low wages and not to vote this law tomorrow and allow people in Croatia to have 330 to 500 kuna salaries from next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141355	Didn't I see Mr. Shuker it was you? And thank you very much, I wanted to say the word ahead already, but I didn't see it. Here you go. Mr. Shucker, here you go. I'll take your judgment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141356	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141357	And wait, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I got, I got, Mr. Schucker's word you'll get, but I got, I got a list, I got a list of six replicas, and you're the sixth. Thank you very much. The first is Mr. Panenic, I didn't see it, but I have eyes here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141358	Thank you very much, Vice President, I'd like to let my colleague Shucker take it out, and maybe we'd like a new argument. To me, this way, my colleague Bernardić, let's just make one thing clear I have listened carefully to your proposal, which is only coming to me, which is a personal problem, coming from the area of the eastern part of Croatia where the lowest salaries, where tax evasion is not at all appreciated, because when people ask me if I have the right to return taxes, I don't know how to explain to them that they're not actually taxed, they have nothing to take, so they can't get back taxes, and they all expect tax returns and they don't really know how it works. We can raise those non-taxables, but they're still below it's not in tax returns. And a great suggestion. We can talk here all together in the Croatian Parliament we would profit something like that, it would help some of us, but for those people with the lowest wages we need to make even more progress with this, and this proposal of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141359	Thank you. Mr Bernardic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141360	Absolutely, that is why we have offered another solution that is part of our entire salary increase package, which is that the minimum wage in Croatia must not be less than 4,000 kuna net. Now in Croatia up to 3,000 kunas receive more than 200,000 people, up to 4,000 kunas, therefore, pay less than 4,000 kunas receive almost a third of all employees. People barely make ends meet. So our proposal is consistent systemically, we want to raise the minimum wage, that no one in Croatia works for less than 4,000 kunas anymore, and that the tax deduction rises to 5,000 kunas so that those who work for 4,000 kunas can get a little bit more kuna. And that's a comprehensive plan that actually wants to make people feel that progress, progress, that's what it's all about. And be sure those who have the lowest wages will almost all that money point right at consumption. They have nothing to save from.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141361	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141362	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Bernardic, so it is clear that our citizens have small salaries, but what is a big problem and what is a burden for all our citizens, for entrepreneurs, it is a tax press, and we have so much tax press because our apparatus is huge. So every day this government entrenched more and more people, 20 laws were changed to put Andrija Mikulić in the place of state inspector and now in the State Inspectorate after 17 inspectorates who were per ministry grouped into one, it's logical to be less employed because she probably decreased the number of leading posts, they created 500 new jobs. And that's the problem, and MOST left at the Ministry of Administration an action plan for public administration reform, secured 800 million kuna, but they're not doing it, because it would be cutting a branch not to which they're sitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141363	Answer Mr. Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141364	Well, what you said was right, so we have a case of enormous party employment and people who don't actually have a HDZ party card don't have anything left to do but leave Croatia. And therefore, unfortunately, Ireland is the largest Croatian island. The HDz colleagues are probably funny because they don't know what's listed. Whether it is harder to list their villas, Mercedeses, expensive watches or the number of affairs that the Croatian public occupys on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141365	Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141366	You mentioned the benefits of our employees with the lowest salaries if this proposal were to pass. But what is important is to point out that the benefits of this proposal would not only be for workers who, with the lowest wages and low wages, would automatically jump to one level, but would also open new jobs. It is just that Croatia is constantly prominent as a country with the most expensive work, and often Croatia's large investors bypass a wide port, so here's the story of a car industry that plans to open its plant in neighbouring Serbia, and Croatia, which although an EU member country has not thought of a serious investor to open up a drive in Croatia, which is precisely because of the cost of work. Because imposes on work are the biggest and if they did this tax discharge, it would open up a space for big investors, which would lead to new jobs. And that should also be emphasized.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141367	Mr. Bernardic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141368	Well, first of all, what you said, fellow Djujic, so this is also a measure that allows wages to be increased without extra cost for the employer, this is a measure of competitiveness. Unfortunately, in 3 years, Croatia fell to the Duing Business ranking from 40 to 58 seats. So, we fell, we fell in that part. We're an uncompetitive country, I guess the only competitors are those in HDZ, no, they're competitive. Their sons of 22-year-old MPs have hotels. My question is how? How do they have hotels? Where'd you get the fairies? Where did you get it, Mercedes? Where did you get that money? If there are millions, if there are millions of kunas spent in information campaigns, and that money is directly removed from the pockets of pensioners, there must be some money for those in Croatia who have the lowest salary. So let's make sure. This measure costs less than Maric's measures for the rich, which allowed the rich to be even richer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141369	Mr. Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141370	Agent Bernardich. This call of yours for salary and pension has become more than degutant. So introduce yourself once, and clearly say, I'm 39 years old, and I'm not working days except for these tapaced benches, so tell me that when you're 37 years old, you're entitled to retire and say, if you were to activate it now, you'd have over seven and a half thousand kunas of retirement and you're getting fucked for this one. And present your closest associates, almost the same references, from Bauk to Maras, all to make the citizens realize that this is your plot, let's call it a pawn, dishonest and hypocritical, and have you thrown out of here in the first next election so as not to contaminate this sacred space again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141371	Mr. Ronko, you still have to choose words. You have to choose words a little bit. [[/Intruder: What?]] Mr Bernardic, Here you go. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141372	... Well, I'm sorry, first of all, you're unhappy. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] What you're unhappy about, you have every reason to be. I'm often in Požega and I know how people live there. They live badly. And you in that life, you didn't help them any better. Because unfortunately you didn't do anything. What you did, you decided to betray your constituents and change the color of your uniform. It's called political corruption, but so I don't talk about you, you're best spoken of by others. Your club president, the ones who call you the chips. That's something I didn't say, that's something others said about you. So you go ahead and you feel that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141373	And you should choose words when you answer such things. Excuse me, is that enough or do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141374	Vice President, I don't think you should have warned me that words 238, but here, I apologize, I said his call the pawn was degutant. [[/Intruder: Which article?]] I'm sorry, his pledge is perverse. [[- Okay, okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141375	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141376	So tell Mr. Ronko your son got re-election thanks to HDZ. So say it. Say that thanks to HDZ and that you've gone to the ruling majority's side, you've got something in return, so say it. Talk about it, so don't be ashamed. Or maybe you're ashamed?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141377	Thank you. I note very tolerantly that neither you nor Mr. Ronko spoke of this law that you represented as an SDP, but you spoke ad hoc both. That's all. Nothing else. Let's move on. - Mrs. Crescent. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141378	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Bernardich's. It is true, therefore, that we go back to the law and what we represent, this income tax law on our club's behalf, and I think it's really far better than the law that we have, and all those who have voted for it, actually have to bear some responsibility for what's going on, and what's actually happening is that this, this law, is passed by 15 thousand the richest. Those whose law and salary increase were neither necessary nor necessary, while at the same time we have over or almost 30% of the people living on the edge of poverty And for them is not HDZ. [[Intruder: Time.]] And this government actually did nothing. [[/Intruder: Mrs. Alfirev. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141379	Mr. Bernardich.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141380	You said it all right. So by their measures for the rich, they made it possible for those of the richest, 15 thousand of them to rise in wages. Only them. They have made it possible by their measures to profit from the mass owners of shopping centres, not citizens. Because food prices aren't cheap. They only profiled the owners of malls. They made this possible by their own measures. So that's what this is about. While our pensioners are starving, they spend money on expensive information campaigns. And that's why this is our measure, something that is intended to just raise all wages in Croatia. It's just, it's the first step. We want some of that money spent daily on corruption, crime, nepotism, at least some of that money to stay in the hands of those who need it most, and these are citizens who have low wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141381	And in the end, I really do now, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141382	... Yeah, I'm sorry. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] A colleague, Bernardić, reading this rather stingy reasoning of the law, says in paragraph 3 for the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget. And you're on your own, how come you're giving someone 2 billion and 400 million, then how come you didn't take anyone? You probably took someone? Or are you going to repeat what you did in 2014 when you took a billion-and-a-half kuna from local self-government units and didn't pay them back? The second thing, counterpart Bernardic, the usual law of both the HDZ and the SDP governments, was, when they propose laws like this that define the financing of local self-government units, that the Law on the financing of local self-government units goes parallel to that, then there would be no need for us to shoot each other now, whether it is like this or not, but it would simply be seen that the state budget should provide 2 billion and 400 million. It's another thing. When you criticise others so much, this bill only represents 26% of employees in the Republic of Croatia and pensioners or about 700 thousand of them all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141383	Time. Thank you very much. Mr. Bernardic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141384	That's not true. This bill includes 660 thousand employees in the Republic of Croatia and more than that. That's the first thing. It's another thing. If it's stingy for you, if it's cheap for you to give 330 kunas more to people who can barely make ends meet, then I really don't know what your politics is about. For example. You know what's not cheap? It's not cheap, for example. Your MP Kustic's family gave him a 60 thousand kuna watch, and he wonders where he gets a 60 thousand kuna watch. So tell us a secret about how other families in Croatia except HDZ families who give away 60 thousand kuna watches can be successful. Tell us a secret. Give us the secret of success that other families in Croatia give watches of 60,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141385	Mr. Shuker, please tell us exactly where the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141386	That's right. Here's article 238 on a subject that's not subject to discussion. So, I am precisely referring to what the SDP wrote in the bill's proposal asked my colleague Bernardic to explain some things to me, and my colleague Bernardic was talking about quite 15 things. And I'm just curious about what my colleague Djujic is going to invent now about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141387	And listen, he'll probably make something like that up. Here you go, Mr. Djujic. Let the circus begin now with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141388	Thank you very much. Article 239 has been injured. My colleague Djujic won't make anything up. 239 says that a representative who abuses the Rules of Procedure should be told, and it is evident that his colleague Shuker has abused the Rules of Procedure, and I appeal to you Vice President to start sharing warnings because this is not going anywhere. So, we haven't moved away from the proposal for an explanation, and fellow Shucker abuses the Rules of Procedure to replicate with other MPs. I am now warning you in time to start applying the Rules of Procedure, because otherwise we'll last until tomorrow, and then you have to let us use the replicator. And I didn't make anything up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141389	Thank you very much. Time Part of the Rules of Procedure is time [[Invadica Djujic: Except for the Rules of Procedure.]] No, I won't give you a warning, but sit down. [[/Invade Djujic: So give me a warning. It's not a problem.]] It's over. Is there anyone else who wants to contribute to this big debate? Is there anyone else? If not, would anyone like to take a word for the Committee? Mr. Maras, go ahead, president of the Labour Committee, pension system and social partnership. Okay. Government official Mr. Zaninovic would like to take the floor? Here you go. Zinc, I'm sorry. Zrinasic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I will only briefly present the essence of the opinion that the Government adopted or gave to the Croatian Parliament at the end of October last year when there was a second round, a second reading of tax regulations and in... amendments to all the legislation that we had meant on three occasions in the first 2.3 billion, in the second 1.3 and third one was planned, respectively... almost 3 billion. The government wanted to achieve sustainability and simplicity of the tax system. First of all in this case sustainability due to a series of tax changes that led above all to the discharge of taxpayers. As far as this law itself is concerned, we've been weighing and we've done over a hundred simulations on personal deductions. In the end, it prevailed that it would remain at 3 thousand and 800 since, according to our simulations, every 100 kuna increase in personal deductions carried nearly 200 million kuna tax duties that would be lower, and just before the debate, we heard the information that the entire income tax belonged to local self-government units. It is estimated that, at the level of consistency, changes in the tax system could otherwise be made to the budget of the units of local self-government, a personal deduction of 3 000 and 800 in this case was only possible. Second. As far as the tax burden itself is concerned, it's calculated as a percentage. A little more than 6%, so looking at the tax burden of income is not high, we can talk eventually about contributions that burden from and to pay in this regard and as a burden. So, as far as this is concerned, the tax burden relative to the level and looking at the European Union alone is not great and we are in the second part of the tax burden table at European Union level. And the key thing that we've been doing here is just a percentage in terms of the proportion or distribution of taxpayers. At this point, we have almost 70% of taxpayers who don't even pay taxes on income. By further distribution of 5 000, this would lead to significant shifts to another extreme that could then be interpreted as counter-constitution in the sense that only one group of taxpayers pay income tax. So it is important to stress that if this measure were raised looking at 100 kunas of 200 million, then it would bring one smaller income of nearly 2 billion and 400 million kuna, and the proportionality itself as the key to this measure was respected in the sense that it would lose the meaning of this tax regulation that income is paid only by a lot, a much smaller number of taxpayers than it is today. So, in this sense, the government has proposed this opinion to the Croatian Parliament not to accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141391	Thank you very much. Mr. Zrinasic, you have several replicas. The first replica has Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141392	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Zrinasic, explain a few things to us. First tell us how much tax revenues have grown over the past three years into the state budget and then tell us why we can't separate two and a few billion kunas for those who really need it? 600-800 thousand citizens. Why isn't that possible? Why is it not possible to compensate local self-government units from tax revenues for the loss that they would possibly feel? Why isn't that possible? Which is why it's possible that your minister boasts all the time that he's given these billions to those billions. What makes it possible for privileged pensions and for some groups to be singled out of the billions' budget, and for 600,000 people, it's not possible? And tell me in the end, what is your minister afraid to come here and talk to us about? What, which are the smarter jobs he has to do right now, might be hanging out with some of the entrepreneurs like he was hanging out in Moscow on his back? Mr. Jolly. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141393	Thank you. Mr. Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141394	Thank you very much. So exactly what we pointed out in tax reform, redistribution of the economy, in order to create a congestion in terms of consumption and a better economic situation that has caused an increase in tax revenues that, thank God, we can use to reduce public debt. As far as the official's route, my minister, is public and publicized on the IRS website, about the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141395	Thank you, too. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141396	I'll read one piece of the article, quote, in the Ministry of Finance they were not surprised and shocked, when after the preliminary results of the financial reports they realized that cities and municipalities, instead of investments, were part of the money that the state gave up on salaries. So, according to a number of local self-government units that have used this discharge instead of investing in infrastructure, projects, working together on EU funds, have decided simply to increase the administration a little bit and spend on the higher salaries of their employees. So that was the consequence of this reform. What's good is that you were in the Ministry of Finance shocked. Although I don't know where that shock came from, it was also to be expected, so it's very simple to assess the effect of this reform, to fix it a little bit, and to accept our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141397	Thank you. Okay. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, this SDP proposal did not cover citizens with the lowest income because they are not income taxing in scissors anyway. There would be an increase in salary for those who obviously have SDP bills because if it were to help the most vulnerable citizens, then it would go with another proposal. Here, this way, local self-government would run out of 2.5 billion kuna. So that would be the result of this bill. On the other hand, the SDP says it would increase the average salary by 333 kuna. Your proposal, the government proposal in November last year, by increasing the personal, i.e. by increasing the non-taxable part of income, allowed each employee, if the employer can, to receive 400 kuna per month, since the non-taxable part was increased from 2.5 thousand to 7.5 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141399	Thank you. Before you answer? Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141400	He's been injured. Honored Vice President of Parliament, 238, because Mr. Bacic is false. So we're just trying to help people with raising minimum wages to 4000 kuna. And it's you, Mr. Bacic, who made it impossible for those people. It is you who believe that 3,000 kunas are enough for the dignity of the lives of people in Croatia. You don't care about those citizens right now. You. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141401	Mr. Bacic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141402	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bernardic hurt the Rules of Procedure, namely, he's replicated me, and he hasn't, I haven't told you a single lie. In this law, Mr. Vice President is not mentioned anywhere in the minimum wage or any other compensation to anyone. So all I've said is true, and that's that a thousand and a half citizens in Croatia with the lowest incomes would feel nothing based on such a bill but obviously the ones they think about that layer of Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141403	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. There's either two warnings or none. Or two or none. It's better than none, isn't it? At least that's where I think. Mr. Boric, please. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141404	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Zrinasic. For people to know, so the SDP was against the first round of tax reform. He was against the other, where we increased the deductions, then they were against the third where we gave money to the local self-government to make up for all the things So when you allow it, I think it's just that, what the government itself has estimated, it means that it wouldn't take money belonging to local self-government units at the end of the year, it changed the rules in the context of giving the untaxable 5 thousand kunas on an annual basis by employers to their workers who think they deserve it. [[Intruder: He didn't respond to what he did before, I'm sorry.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[All right, all right, here you go. Here you go, Mr. Boric.]] Translated to the monthly level, it's about 420 kuna, here it's proposed 330 as an increase in the monthly base, so I just wanted to say that it seemed to be much easier and more appropriate without taking money from local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141405	Mr. Boric, please. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141406	At first? Mr. Zrinasic, so far the SDP has been against the first round of tax reform, the second round and the third round. [[/Intruder: Yes, yes.]] The first two, when we raised personal deductions and the third when we returned to local self-government the total amount practically, 2.5 billion kuna. What were they for? They were in 2014, a colleague Bernardic raised his hand here to take the local self-government another billion and a half, and then they came up with some sort of settlement fund that they never gave anyone back, nothing, and they said what you care about. And why did they do that? I'll tell you why. Why are they now offering this so lightly at the expense of local self-government? Because they only have 50. Not 10% in the whole state, and they just don't care what happens in these local self-governments, and how they compensate for those missing assets, they don't care why they act like one. They're easily sharing money that they don't have... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141407	Time. Mr. Bernardic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141408	Several articles were injured. 236, 238 and 239 and Mr. Boric refers to local self-government units. So that's not the topic today. And your pain, it pains you to take parts of the municipalities and cities just because you're making fun of your party listeners there. You suffer from taxpayers with HDZ party card, and 2 young people are moving from Croatia to Ireland on a daily basis. How can you not be embarrassed?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141409	Mr. Greek, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141410	Mr. Vice President, my colleague, Boric, according to Article 238, is therefore false. Compensation was. The compensations had one downward trajectory for several years. You interrupted it when you came to power. You've canceled it for people. You canceled it and interrupted the model that we established for compensation to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141411	Wait a minute. On the side... Article 238 doesn't say that false things can't be told. Let's move on with the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Deviation... Here you go, Mr. Boric. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And without that, you have all the possibilities... It fits everything because it's the law that you represent. [[You don't understand.]] You can talk whenever you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141412	The Honorable Vice President, a colleague of Greece, injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 238 because he deviated from the observed rules of conduct because it was false. No compensatory measures he has not returned. Ask local self-governments in Gorski Kotar what they got from what they took from them. Today, too, they claim that they need to take even more because they have decided to pay someone suddenly just to look nice. What you didn't think of four years ago, that's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141413	Thank you very much. At least something we learned today, to speak false at the same time and to deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament. That's what we learned today and now we're moving on. That's one thing someone should have said once. Is that right? Mr. Curry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141414	What's the matter? ... I didn't get it right now. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141415	What were you doing hurting the Rules of Procedure and you? And you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? But I didn't see it. [[I did, that's right. I'm begging you, Chairman.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141416	No, no, no. It's all right. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141417	He was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141418	I asked if I got the word. Obviously, I did, though I didn't. Yes, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, chairing to stick to Rules of Procedure 232, 238, 239, and I repeat what my colleague Djujic said you would begin to share warnings because this is being misused and used for replicas, because we will not finish until the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141419	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Curai, you have a replica here. ... Yeah, yeah, that's what it says. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141420	No, no, I answered. It's all right. Yes, Secretary of State. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you what amount it is if we were to abolish the income tax at all, if we had abolished the income tax in the first place, how much less would it be to the units of local self-government. ... In fact, if we start with this logic, we really need to relieve as much of course as possible and what that would mean for our citizens in local self-government units. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Wait a minute, please. Go on, Mr. Chury.]] On the other hand, I hope that in the next package of tax changes, it will really go into tax redistribution, above all, by our citizens and through income tax, as well as in further steps of course and VAT. But I'm really interested in the public that we know what would happen to us if we really shut it down so we have the cheapest workforce.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141421	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141422	Thank you very much. So that data was fluctuating. It is currently around 14 billion, with it important to stress that at the level of all taxpayers the average rate when divided with all bonds is slightly more than 6%.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141423	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141424	So this conflict between HDZ and SDP means who did more and who did what. But the fact that with all this tax discharge going on, so it can't be said that it didn't happen, it's all not enough to have a more significant impact on the growth of the Croatian economy. And the reason why you can't go into a bigger discharge is precisely this entanglement in both the state's apparatus and the public administration. And here's a colleague here talking about local self-government units where this fact that units of local self-government got more money used to spend these funds on employees' salaries, on the mayor's salary growth. Right here in my town, the deputies immediately took these two-and-a-half thousand kuna fees a month that we gave up. So immediately these funds were used to make use of it for employees' salaries in local self-government units. How do you intend to do that and when do you intend to do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141425	Thank you. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141426	Here's to the truth that then the tax reform of your SDP government was actually such that the city of Zadar had less than 25 million kunas and it was never returned to anything. When we talk here about income tax, then the proposer has to say from where and if he asked the employers, can I raise 1,000 kuna pay net, and then increase how gross it is, whether I can handle the current work and with the current income whether I can support the payout or that will lead to the layoff of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141427	Thank you very much. We are opening the debate now, Mr. First Mr. Tomislav Panenić is in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141428	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Proposers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let's not turn today's assembly into a debate that may eventually turn into something comical or inappropriate, talk about wages, and those who listen to these discussions expect exactly from us who are here to discuss the salaries of those who want a certain increase professionally, at a certain level, there are all kinds of discards that I've heard now that are either unrealistic and even a little bit trendy. But this debate certainly encourages you both to think and to make future tax reforms that you will need to take. The government will have to take certain measures, not to make it look like all these tax reforms, all the discharges, we can say today are enough. Definitely not enough because it is not only Croatia that is taking measures to make wages grow. If we look at the environment then we can say that we haven't done anything spectacular, that around us there are higher rates of economic growth, that everyone is aware of the outflow of labour, that everyone is doing a number of concessions, primarily the concessions that are on, I will say the damage to the state budget of those countries, and that the greater the share remains with their workers. It is precisely the theme of the contribution that has been very current in the past year and has been applied since this year that has prompted us to think about whether these tax burdens can change more significantly. The expectations were that the wages would be poured into the wages themselves, that the employers of that part that was relieved would be denied for the benefit of the workers. These were all expectations, today we should really conduct a survey and see how many of our employers have shed that discharge towards their workers. To not turn out that what is a lack of labour is a part-time struggle for every worker, for every worker that it's just the success of the government who made that discharge but is also a big concern that employers have to keep the worker, especially the ones most quality. What is important is to say, I have already pointed out that unfortunately less developed areas of the Republic of Croatia in this proposal are significantly less visible, is that so-called. tax scissors do not include such wages, and they should be practically told not to follow the debate today. But follow the debate to know that we need to look for other methods, that we can't just rely on headlines that often appear in the media where we have tax reform, where we have a reduction of contributions when we get a little deeper into the subject when it's a little bit explained. Then we see that the one who's the end-user, and that's the payee in all of this is the least found. The question is, what with the lowest wage if it is real on our market is very little, we can determine that with us is the lowest wage and 10,000 kuna, which if at this rate they continue to raise real estate prices, we are growing inexhaustible energy prices, we are not taking measures to maybe decommission, reduce that effect or a number of other imposings that have been happening lately. How we stop them, we're just gonna make a political decision all the time, we're going to raise a minimum wage, we're going to raise a minimum wage, we're going to keep talking about that minimum, let's talk about some average salaries with which people would be satisfied. When you mention the minimum wage, I feel like we're talking about social measures, we keep putting out the fire, and as long as the minimum wage is the topic we're talking about, it's not gonna make people feel safe in Croatia because we're not talking about proper income, it's the one that's politically defined as minimal and then the discussion of the minimum income tax really doesn't make sense. We can't talk about something that hasn't been taxed at all. On the other hand, those who have been taxed often find that local self - administrations, despite the financial balances made possible by this government, have continued to retain their taxes. There are honorable exceptions that have been lifted or reduced, and we should also commend that, but most of them have remained to cut further full local budgets. It wasn't enough to provide them with financial balancing, but to take advantage of the wage growth, one trend that follows and supplement our budgets, and then the effect not only from financial balancing, but also from these cuts we see in the exclusive increase in the number of employees. The total mass of wages in public administration is growing and what is a key problem, which is a real sector in which in many activities the lowest wage is, there is no effect. We didn't get a good target. With the disbursement of the contributions we discussed, of course everyone was looking forward to reducing the contribution to employment, protection at work, but then after that, there was an increase in health contributions. By simply increasing resources, we have increased revenues to the health system and we have slightly recovered the losses they are creating. Have we implemented a reform of the health system? Have we optimised the system? Have we made any preconditions? No, we just continued our old practice. Health care is still the biggest loser, the biggest obligations they have to their suppliers, hospitals are cramping in our debt, but we've slightly increased to continue with the practice they've been doing so far. In such a way, any discharge that on the other hand will have no real reform, will lead us to a stalemate position, we will have some principle increase, and we will have the accompanying costs of living that are inexorable. And it's inevitable that as we grow some standard, we grow the cost of our lives. What is very difficult, probably from the good intentions this government is taking, which is to encourage the purchase of the first real estate, has caused chaos on the market. Everyone only waits when there will be a subsidy, ultimately, that subsidy, it is only a compensation for the increase in wages, an increase in the price of the property that happened. It's exactly how it's integrated, but it's not, that we're learning about it now, but also, we've seen it on a number of examples when we go as a state or as a regional or as a local self-government to subsidize something. Public transport prices for pupils were the lowest when they were not subsidized. When the subsidy was launched, the carriers raised their prices and only the spillover of public funds towards certain companies actually increased. And those effects that should have been left behind. It's not just buying someone a book, so those who print books raise the price. It's not to pay for a ride so they can raise the price of transportation. It's not to subsidise the purchase of real estate, if the cost of real estate is growing, so we can't behave like that, we have to think, exactly what is often mentioned, which are the effects of implementing certain regulations. We now have one recent event, it's been up to today, it's still going on, it's the allocation of seats on election boards, where the government has secured a 300 kuna fee net for members of the election board. It was probably very attractive for you who are sitting here right now, that you took part in it and talked to these people, to hear how many people said 300 kunas weren't enough for one day to sit there and perform that duty. Surprise yourselves. Don't forget. Not so long ago, we had a situation that you couldn't provide enough room for the election boards as many people wanted to receive such a fee. Now 300 kuna, they say thank you very much for the offer, we're glad you're thinking of us, but here, unfortunately, I have some obligation or something that I'm going to do that day that's worth more than 300 kuna, more of that 300 kuna isn't worth as much as it used to be. This is just saying that both tax discharge and in this proposal from 3800 to 5000 kuna may seem tempting and is one of the proposals that needs to be discussed and see how much he is enforceable that the Ministry of Finance can say in its projections realistically what it means, which means to the state budget and there is one space that here, colleague Bernardić said in his presentation anyway, and that is that if the state budget, if it achieves the surplus, then opens up space so that we can determine what we will do within that surplus. Whether it's going to be a health-loss recovery, so that our health care is actually on some real ground. Whether it will be in line with this regulation to increase non-taxable income, so it will be slightly lower revenues of the budget, so it would be at least equalising that surplus. Or we simply have an accounting category of budget in which we show the surplus by various techniques, we present it to the public, and what should happen, which is investment, increased investment and increased investment, is not happening. I kind of expect, a country that has a surplus, that they don't actually know, they don't have the right, if there's a surplus, there's no real idea how to spend public funds. There are no real programs, no realisation, no projects that are prepared, various problems that should be addressed, which is political responsibility. No, we have come to the fact that we will practically be at the level of developed countries and yell we have a surplus, we in the country are all great, public finances are stable, wages are coughing, people are moving away, national funding is gone, it has turned exclusively into EU funding. What was not programmed during the government of Zoran Milanovic is not happening. Why don't we say that maybe some of the things that we missed at the time were intentional or unintentional, we can't provide funding from the national budget and say, here's the mistake, let's finance it and solve some of the problems that you're burning. We have turned practically into a service of projects that do not bring about many problems, primarily demographics. In eastern Croatia, an announcement in Vukovar, a billion-and-a-half kuna, so it's not, I don't know, that it has shaken someone too much, that the excitement is there. From a billion and a half kuna, no one blinked in my neighborhood that something significant should happen, no one believes our lives will be better, but the prime minister was talking about a billion and a half kuna. So someone will come and say I will provide you with a billion-and-a-half kuna investment and then the debate on the Vinkovci railway line – Vukovar will begin. Great, 500 million estimated costs, already in the 370 contest. So 130 million is already missing. I'd tell the Prime Minister if that 130 million won't be through that project, then give it somewhere else to 130 million, so we can stay in the sum of a billion and a half so it doesn't shrink. We'll have a railroad that should transport goods and people. How many of those goods are there? What industry is there? How many industrial giants do we have that will deliver their products through the port or via the railroad somewhere else? How many passengers will travel from Vukovar in the direction of Vinkovci? How much is this contribution to us? Or some contractor will show up. We also had a railroad reconstruction towards Shidd, where there was a consortium on the outside. They built it, but our standard didn't grow. It didn't happen. That's right with these 500 million kunas. Nothing significant will happen to us, and even if the coastal fortification of the Danube is arranged, there may be something safer. It may be a nicer eye, a nicer one, but people themselves expect them to see through their pay. They expect us to have proposals here that will not be minimal reforms, but there will be reforms that have real power to stimulate something after implementation. This latest reform, which actually referred to contributions to wages, has passed on in something that we still cannot measure, and we see that the costs continue to be burdensome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141429	Thank you. I thank my colleague Panenic. [[Upadica Panenić: In this sense, the Club supports this project.]] Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, respected counterpart Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141430	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club cannot and will not support such a proposal, not because it would not want everyone to have a minimum salary of at least 5 thousand kuna, because this would mean that it would be a starting salary, but because it should be subject to economic conditions that any employer can pay his employee an adequate salary. I don't think colleagues who have never made a salary bill know what that means, because the one who now has a net salary of 3 and a half thousand and below, or 3 and 800 and below, doesn't even pay a kuna tax. With this measure of increasing to 5 thousand kunas of the untaxable so that man would not get 5 thousand kuna, but would still get 3 thousand and 800 kuna. So when we talk about it, then we need to know what parameters we're going from and what that ultimately means. The government when it proposed all these changes that were taking place in three circles, then it went with the goal of increasing the non-taxable part at the same time, and at the same time the counterweight and what it had to take into account is that it did not damage local self-government units, and then left them with full income tax. By introducing additional protections for these same units of local self-government for municipalities in particular for cities or counties, they have municipalities per capita of at least 925 kuna per capita, cities 2 and a half thousand, county 319 kuna per capita. So these were guidelines and guidelines that in some way these local and regional units would not be damaged by the part that they would eventually not collect from income tax to a sufficient extent. And those are the compensatory measures. If the system is set up in this way, they would question where to replace these same units with the missing part, and the government's goal was to increase the original revenues of local self-government units that would enable them not only to increase wages, but to enable them to create projects and co-finance projects from the European Union funds so that they can monitor these projects from their original funds. Create them first, design them. So it was also the responsibility of each unit of local and regional self-government to design projects, to make them, to apply them and ultimately implement them with at least 15% participation as it is now possible. Thus, in this way, the government went to strengthen local and regional self-government units and it is evident that many have increased income from income tax and even doubles, especially those who were passive and who had far fewer employees, but had a number of residents. And in this way she wanted to strengthen and infrastructureize these very parts and thus create a prerequisite for young people and all others who are not young and who want to live this outside the centre so that they can live with quality infrastructure in those units of local self-government. A colleague here has already said what it means if it increases by 100 kuna each release, by 100 kuna wages, that's 200 million kuna less tax revenues, which is over 2.4 billion kuna. Now in this tax system, therefore, the burden has to be repeated once again, the burden on citizens of all citizens on average from income tax is 6%. From that we must say that more than 73% of citizens do not pay income tax at all, does not pay income tax at all. So it's not in the income tax system's scissors. And when we talk about wages then we have to say that 0.6% of the total employees had and has less than 3,200 kuna, which is 77,500 employees, these are data from the State Statistics Office of 3 months 2018. 227.000 receive salary from 4.001 kuna to 5,200 kuna, so every 4 employees. All that is with a net salary greater than 12,000 kuna is only 50,000 people and that is 5.3% of total employees. Therefore, these changes in the tax system that was made in three circles sought to strike a balance between those who earn both the local and regional self-government units and also the balance in relation to employers who must enable and create these additional payout funds. So, when the minimum wage is raised to 3,000 kuna, that doesn't mean that this government is satisfied that this minimum salary is 3,000 kuna, but the goal is to create real, real economic conditions that will create added value, that this salary comes from what is really produced and created, and not artificially produced because then it doesn't bring anyone into a good, good situation, then what I've replicated can happen, we can raise the minimum wage to 5,000, but the question is whether the employer can create so much money and the mass of wages that he can pay those wages or then he'll have to resort to rationalization and layoff. So in all of this, it needs to be real and objective, this is in this way impossible to make quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141431	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peric. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and welcome, cheers. So, hello to another colleague and colleague, which is more important than salary and pension, I don't know if you even realize what's more important than pay and pension. Well, yes, but if there's no health, you won't even do it, it's true, but there's nothing more important than pay and pension for life and standard for people. [[Intruder: Health.]] Therefore, it must be at any moment in the focus of any government. So, people get up at dawn, it's still dark, they go to work, they travel for an hour, and then 8 hours work, and then they still travel for 1.5 hours at home. So 10.5 hours a day people devote their time to work and so 300 days a year. So many people actually do nothing, but they do. And what little time they have left to sleep, I can dedicate to my family. And here we are listening to some bureaucratic debates, there are no 2 billion kunas. Please convince me, convince the Croatian public that there are no 2 billion kunas if you are willing to waste money on any kind of thing. We, during our government, distributed these inspectorates to individual ministries just to save on an administration that worked on, for those inspectors. And if you'd said we were short 120 or 150 inspectors, we wouldn't have said the words. Maybe really on the ground in what's-his-name. The production on the ground is missing people. But to propose to open 500 administrative posts here in the new informal ministry in alleged signs, led by Mr. Mikulic, which will cost additionally. So I figured out 12,000 a month gross salary of one average employee times 12 months, times 500 that's 72 million kuna per year for a higher cost. Seventy-two million kunas, please calculate, plus equipment, plus new furniture, plus everything that's still going to be obtained and obtained so that this new ministry can work. And there's no increase in people's wages, there's no such thing. And not to list all the thousands of new people who are, the other day, there was a television journal, a few thousand new people who were admitted in the last two years. to the public administration. I'm not talking about services, I'm not talking about professors, I'm not talking about teachers, I'm talking about doctors, I'm talking about administration, I'm talking about management, and if there's money for that, if budget money is being spent on it, so how can you convince me here the entire Croatian public that there's no money to increase the salaries of the largest spectrum of our citizens and don't sell me that number of millions and 900 thousand people in the Republic who don't pay taxes, I'm asking you not to point that out because you've included 1 200 000 pensioners who receive a pension on average, please don't, so I mean, I know exactly what I'm saying and I know what I'm hearing when Mr. Maric says that. So 1,900 000 people who receive some income, these are not employees, 1,600 000 are total employees in the Republic of Croatia, and you have included 1,200 000 pensioners in those who don't pay taxes, and that's one truth, so how can we be ashamed to say that maybe even pensioners should pay a pension tax of 2,400,00 kn, come on, so come on, so give me, then explain to me who those 1,900 000 people are? Maybe my kids who aren't working yet, or your grandkids, did they get into that number? So, what am I saying? Please, let me say it all the way because I've listened to everything here today. [[Intruder: Dear fellow Shucker, I would kindly ask you not to disturb your fellow Greek as he speaks]] So, this idea, after everything that's been done so far, I welcome even what you as a government did when you personal deduction increased to 3.600,00 kn for that I was, I don't know if I raised my hand for other elements of tax reform back then, but for that part I certainly was. So, I welcome this, as I think now a new step in the story where that deduction is increasing from $3.800,00 to 5.00 is something that will actually bring people a bigger salary and that here is a fellow secretary of state, Mr. Zrinasic, said about around 700,000 people. So do you know how much different this is compared to that proposal that you have proposed here and adopted when you said that only 15,000 employees in the Republic of Croatia with the highest salaries, so, more than 18.000,00 kn will get a salary increase, that's your measure, and then we already said, it's not fair, it's a reward for the rich, not the mass of people who live, just before, 75% of them with a salary of less than 6.300,00 kn, what is the average salary in the Republic. The median salary of £5.400,00, so the one that divides workers half-half, so half of them has less than €5.400,00, and half of them are above €5.400,00, so you know what that is? Well, these are the lowest in purchasing power, the lowest wages in Europe, Bulgaria is behind us and GDP per capital and per salary. I mentioned here today, 2007. Some Hungarians, one Polish, one Lithuania, Latvia, Bulgaria and Romania, 6 countries were behind us, today only Bulgaria is looking at the Republic of Bulgaria in the back, we must keep that in mind. If we can do this in the short term, so this is a short-term measure, which is also what nobody here said today, so this kind of pay increase is a short-term measure and intervention, it's interventionism, it's something that's putting out the fires of my fellow colleagues and colleagues, the ceasefire. After the entrepreneurs gave up one part of their profits for the benefit of the workers because there is no worker, after you have moved something earlier in the reform, after we have done the same thing before you, there is now expected to be a new step in tax pay for the largest number of people in the Republic of Croatia who still pay taxes, and there are little more than what you say, so there are at least 700 000 still paying taxes. You, when you brought your measure, propagated the following, 100 times I heard a colleague of Maric I appreciate, and every time I point out and repeat what's good here, but my brother can't listen to it anymore, so I can't listen to it anymore. The salaries will be increased to teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, engineers, informers, and then the salaries will only increase to people who have a salary net of more than 18,000,00 kn, 15 000, where not one category of those you've listed all along and the information society itself, entrepreneurs, calculates the salaries of informers in the Republic of Croatia, in different places, from junior divaloper, to that senior and those in management, so he says, they range between 8 and 12,000,00 kn, so it wasn't enough to prove to you that none of these people are in that category where you like, as you wanted to raise wages. When I say something, believe me, I've at least double-checked it three times, especially when it comes to proposals like this going public. So, the truth is I was counting, everything that my colleague Bernardic just said about how much salary will increase to a young trainee with a high professional training who has just started working and who has a income of 5,000 kuna, he is now paying 330 kuna taxes and a cut and paying him 4,670 kuna and income 5,000. When the deduction is 5,000 to him, his salary rises 330 kuna, his entire income will also be net salary. And in 330 kuna, I have them at home, so I know, you know, how those kids are calculating, for 330 kuna, I've got a wolf and a drink on the marenda for the next 8 days, so they're resonating I'm telling you, talk to those young people you probably have them at home. I've got a walk and I've got a drink that I can marin for eight days, it's almost two weeks' work I can do from that marenda, it's 6.5% salary increase like this, like this. The teacher, mentioned Bernardić, a teacher whose husband has taken over himself or grandmothers or has done so as abstention members and who has not been included in the tax card of dependent members or children, and has 6,000 kunas, will surely pay her the same 330 kuna. Ask them if it's small, if it's small compared to those 50 kunas you projected for them to get more. This is almost six times as many as 60 kunas, though, almost. That's what I'm talking about, so this is a real proposal, this is a consistent proposal, this proposal I have a second step, we didn't purposely, you were just wondering, why we didn't give income tax to this added value, why we didn't give the Units Act to funding local self-government units, we didn't want to. And you know why? And just because of what happened today, that you put this point where no one listens to it anymore, no one. Because this isn't being transmitted except for the 100 people on the Internet, maybe even more, I wouldn't want to offend people. But that's why with 30 signatures, we're going to pass here a law amending the VAT law, and we're going to suggest that from 25 to 25, and that it doesn't go down to 24 because we need those 2 billion for the realisation of this law. So if that doesn't work either, if it does this afternoon at 6 or 8, then we're going to go with the third law on funding units of local self-government, so we're going to repeat this whole story again. So let people listen to who's right and who's wrong. Unfortunately, we don't make decisions, there's a problem, you make decisions, but then you convince people that what we're saying here, what I'm saying, what I'm saying is that it's not true, you convince them. And you're telling me there's no 2 billion kuna, there's no such thing. So my people, why do you not confess your sins, why do you not confess? When it comes to tax reform, meaning in the last tax reform, here today it's said several times, you've made terribly big mistakes. You've only increased your salary by 15,000 of the richest people in the country, that's the first mistake. Another error was to assure you that if you reduce VAT on fruits, vegetables that are mainly imported, pork, veal, beef that is imported more than 50%, who will profit, importers, and then these traders on a little bit of this.../incomprehensible/... which then increases prices or keeps them at least at the same level, and takes the smaller VAT that you have enabled them. So 2 billion goes to them like this. And all the follow-up analyses confirmed it and showed it. Right? The media wrote about it, etc., etc., 2 billion kunas, i.e. how much you said 1.7 no more, more than 2 billion kunas all together. And in the end, our proposal is not consistent and there are no 2 billion kunas, as it is, there is, everything can be solved. Because if you put the VAT down from 25 to 24, what you've already written down in the law and here, you're still 1 percentage point, you've thrown another 2 billion kunas. So give them to the citizens, give them to these 700,000 citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141433	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141434	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State, we have before us a law that deals with pay increases and we can answer the key question right away, which is that Live Wall, as always, will support every effort in that direction, regardless of which side it comes from, and even when it is proposed by HDZ and SDP, although it is precisely those two sides that deserve the most that we have a dreary state that we have. We supported HDZ's Minimum Payment Act, of course, they never gave us one, not even the amendment, let alone the law, and then there's no reason not to support the SDP's Tax Change Act on Income. Because wages and pensions are exactly the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia. Of course not all of them are the lowest and below average ones, and according to some statistics around 75% The very low wages have brought down the productivity of workers because many work on the principle of how much you pay, so much I do, have reduced the quality of work because the most educated people have left the country first, have destroyed the dignity of people and families, have destroyed trust, not only in politics, but also in institutions, have caused huge and medium-term irreparable blows to the demographic image of the Republic. Today we have a situation thanks to small wages and poor economy that even 50-year-old workers, and that the number of young employees in the last few years has fallen by nearly 100,000, that we are in the last 10 years. We lost more than 200,000 persons in employment, and in turn we came to a situation where today the average employee in the Republic of Croatia is 44 years old, so today the average worker is 44 years old, which is not a very bright comparison when we look at those countries that we like to compare with, and these are countries that have high GDP growth, I don't know, like India and China, Japan, the United States, where the average is around 30 years old. Today in the Republic of Croatia, we have only 250,000 workers under the age of 30, and what is the situation even a little while longer, so we'll have to look for them through a public tender, any young one, we'll look for them as they say, with a candle. No wonder that is the case when we look at what the average salaries are in Croatian companies. Here are the latest statistics, average salary, beware of average salary, Boso 2.900,00 kn, 2500 Studenca workers have average salary 3.700,00 kn, about 3.000,00 kn on average have workers in companies Kotka, Krapina, Varteks, Vis confection Varazdin, Boxmark, Polgreen, Orljava, Požega, Jelen etc. To make things even worse, women who work in these companies, except they have such a miserable salary, workers still have to do it on Saturdays, and all Saturdays, often have to do it overtime, which is the worst of all, these companies do positive business, not to have a positive business, but rather to do a very good business, say this Polgreen that I mentioned either this Cotka or some companies that sew the suits, means they're working with the world's largest brands like, I don't know, Pierre Cardin etc., where one suit is sold for 5, 6.000,00 kn, and more, and the worker gets a monthly salary of this suit, means the worker gets the price of a jacket, but not the pants that he made himself and without which the company couldn't exist. For example, a short-term confection. The same workers have $30.00, but they have to pay themselves half the travel expenses, can you imagine that? Not only are these some isolated examples, but this is a rule, I only led them to paint the situation, that people hear at least a few concrete concepts, but in fact in the Republic of Croatia today almost a worker earns less than 3.500,00 kn, 3.500,00 kn is absolutely not enough for a normal life. Who can live with 3.500,00 kn especially in the city? Who can live with $3.500,00 if they have to take care of the children? God forbid his spouse is unemployed, if he has credit, if he has no housing issue resolved, then it's just below every level of sustainability. And now look at the situation we have here in HS, declaratively, ask any MPs whether they're in opposition or in power, if you're for higher wages, they'll all say yes. What will they do in practice? Nothing. However, they'll talk, they'll talk, here at the beginning of the year they're talking about how some tax reform is going to be carried out, how after that the salary will be higher, I don't know how many months of work for this reform, so that at the end of the work price will fall 0.7%, please tell me, what is that change if something changes by 0.7%? Who can even measure such tiny shifts? Try to imagine a man getting fat or losing 0.7% would you notice that? No way. So it's not visible, it's maybe visible on the alcotest, but there's the upper limit of measuring 5%, so it makes sense that 0.7 might be seeing something. We had to put the labour price down, that's the point, the price of the work significantly down, significantly. It is currently 37% in the Republic of Croatia, and in Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary is below 30% and that, as the copy-pass is said, we take Romania's wage model, all salaries in the Republic would increase on average by about 100.00 euros without investing a single kuna. This shows in fact that with the same money earned in two different places you can have a different salary, for example in those countries that I mentioned, rather than in the Republic of Croatia, and then you should wonder why you invest in those countries. Why does he invest in them and not with us? Why BMW, Audi and Mercedes is produced in Hungary and nothing is produced in Croatia, not a single part for any car even for those companies of type Dacia etc. How much wages have increased in Romania in the last 2 years, 50%, 50%. You know how many nurses in Romania have received a 70% raise in the last two years, that's your reform. That's why they call Romania an Eastern European tiger. In Hungary, a woman who decides to give birth and who is employed gets EUR 32,000 from the state free of charge. It's demographic measures, that's how they protect national interests, not what we have means simply throwing crumbs off the table. And it would really be better if we had this Orban, whom everyone in the media calls a populist even though it means the Germans give him maximum confidence to produce their best products, but not instead we have Maric, we have Vujčić, we have Šuker, Plenkovic, Grozdan Peric and others who run this country's financial policy. They raise salaries by a few-tenths of kuna and she says Minister Pavic, be careful what he says, raises the salary by 2% and says it's not small, it's not small. And tomorrow, Minister Coric comes in, increases the gas by 7% and says it's not much. So 2% is not small, 7% is not much, depending on how they're interpreted, interpreting this statistic. How much this year alone has collected waste disposal, how many countries are taking into the price of fuel, here's how much the EU takes 40%, as much as 63%. We have to at the fuel price I don't know how to pay HZ infrastructure, we have to pay the toll in the price of fuel. So it doesn't matter if you drive on the highway or you don't drive a toll, you have to pay. The first word was that food prices were going down, they were down, they didn't rise. If I have to do it 100 times here again, and I'm going to repeat that in Milan in the Italian city, the director's prices are lower by a quarter, and the wages are twice as high. That in Greece, which is taken as some example of disasters are cheaper in fruits and vegetables than in Croatia, even bread, public transport, taxis, clothes, real estates are 40% cheaper in Athens than in Zagreb. And I'm supposed to repeat it there's a disaster. And all of this would still be bearable if at the same time the representatives and ministers hadn't forgotten themselves. They knew how to raise their wages even in this term, and rarely by 3 to 4,000 kuna. They've increased the wages to themselves and to those who have, and that's why today we have the kind of market that we have, which means that workers are getting older, and young people are gone or fled abroad. And take a walk through the City of Zagreb, see any window, everyone is looking for some workers, immediately offers applications, immediately offers a job for a stop. Now that they've scattered everyone they could now suddenly offer justice, order, honesty. But it's too late now. Now there are no more people to whom you can, even if you want to apply such measures effectively. And that MPs have wonderful privileges, have salaries of up to 23,000 kuna, will have a later nice pension, receive a flat of 1,500 kuna, receive compensation for a separate life of 1,000 kuna, receive travel expenses from the place of residence to the amount of 2,500 kuna per month, receive daily fees for official travel, an apartment for 2,500 kuna, directors pay up to 500 kuna, have a warm meal at the assembly without VAT for 18 kuna, coffee and juices for a couple of kunas, get a laptop and tablets for 24 hours from the assembly, even the vice presidents have a 24 hour a day of this, have a break not half an hour a day in a term but half an hour can be there, and 10 hours rest. There are no sanctions for not coming to the constituency committees and other working bodies. The maximum penalty for coming to the workplace is 1,500 kuna, and according to HDZ representatives themselves in informal talks, we enjoy here. They're enjoying themselves. So says your colleagues and MP Peric, I'm sorry in the face they told me, enjoying why they should be tortured. And they should only be put on the salary of 3,000 kuna for a month and work here both overtime and no travel and I don't know without a break, they would quickly find a solution to this situation if they felt what they were doing to others in their own skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141435	Thank you. A colleague of Bunjac's next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, a respected colleague of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141436	I thank the Vice President, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, and I didn't even know that some of them are so well here and that they have so many salaries and boo privileges, I'm going to have to ask if it's stuck because it's just some of the others that are obviously involved. All right, let's get back to the agenda. In principle, both the position of the HNS Club and my personal is always to welcome every tax discharge of workers, point. In principle, this is the same potential as one of the directions we should or may go. What I'm worried about, and that's a Greek fellow, is actually very good and said, we've mixed the order a little bit, so if we do, we risk a much greater negative echo among our citizens than the one who's positive because we can't just observe this through the Income Tax Act, we have to go through a series of those laws and finance units of local self-government and VAT law, etc., which should be harmonised that we have a single tax policy because, here we heard contradictory data, now we're not even clear on the same side of our colleague Bernardic's said that this measure is less than we lost when we increased the threshold for entering another income rate, so we're not clear now whether it's still standing on that or not if 30,000 people are included in the increase or they got a salary increase when we've moved from 18.000,00 kn to 40% to 30%. I suspect that the equivalent of 2.4 or more than 2.4 billion kunas, as is said, I think that the Greek fellow has actually said the right thing, so if I have to choose, I want to trust my colleague Bernardic or Greek, I think I would say to a fellow Greek, perhaps the man knows more, not that maybe, but certainly. Furthermore, here is, above all, a question of social standards that we may be violating if we adopt this today, if we don't look at it from a broader point of view. How? First of all, almost a third of people won't feel anything, a third of the employees won't feel anything, those who have a salary of £4,000.00 net, €75.00 increase, those who have 4.500,00 kn, €260,00, and now be careful if they have an additional relief whether through disability or through a child, then those who have 5.500,00 kn won't feel anything, so two children, so I don't speak anymore. And what could they feel? If we take 2.4 billion units of local self-government, then we could feel about the social standard that is financed from these local units, so it's the prices of kindergartens, someone subsidized, the city, where, from the city's tax revenues, and the main tax revenues of the city know that income tax and taxes are automatically reduced when we reduce income tax and taxes, when we talk about non-intentional main incomes, so we also have the communal contributions, fees, other series of other taxes, so we could also do more shopping, or I don't know where the units are going to find, transportation public too. When we talk about other quality of life in units, when we talk about sports, the use of halls, infrastructure, subsidies, culture, and we have to think about it, if that's what we want to encourage, I don't know what money to do. So it's this broader display, a third of people won't feel anything, and we could feel much more negative, and that doesn't mean that I'm against this, however, I welcome every tax discharge of our citizens, but it has to be done wisely, and even here, even on behalf of the proposing club said we didn't want everything because yes, our proposal will be to sit down with our partners and first let's see if we can replace it with 1.1. VAT reduction... from one rate that reduces revenues by about 1.6 billion and moves in this direction systematically, systematically, systematically. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We proposed more in the Government with the SDP balancing fund, not then passed, thank God this government has accepted it, thank God it is now a unique income or income tax is a unique income of local self-government and regional and maybe there should be a view of the same direction, let's let them decide how much tax they would take, let's liberalize it, amjo this is a minimum 5%, maximum 40, and these are rates possible, so let's let each unit, or regional or local decide how much tax they want, and when they decide, there is no up there and they need to have a sustainable decision in accordance with and co-financing because they won't pay it, they can find a model, it might be a single step is whether it's their money, so we know who wants to finance the sport, who wants to have a cheaper culture, who wants to have cheaper kindergartens, demographics etc., public transportation or who doesn't want to have to have to have to have more money with the citizens, so they will have money. Or find yourself somewhere in the middle. Because to these citizens, thirds, meaning, that nothing here benefits me give 10 grand or what I said, let's get rid of, watch out for income tax citizens, 12 billion in 2017 income, 13.5 billion in 2018 we finally made it to the final figure. Absolutely to eliminate income tax, again 1/3 of citizens won't feel it, and what they might feel or what isn't, if we haven't cut, say not to cut VAT on food, I thank both the ministry and my colleagues and everyone who has accepted it to cut, I would like to go another step to reduce the VAT rate to food, is that these citizens feel that they have below 4,000,00 kn pay, they feel it, less or more, depending on the sensibility of the goods or which is sold and prices on the market, of course, maybe everything else is growing, so this remains the same, so we've already done, and they show statistics that some things really defacted and reduced. Let's move on, so when we talk about this, I'd like to do exactly and have such a proposal and our goal will be to discuss and talk to partners to go in this direction, to look at all the options and possible consequences that come from the law, positive or negative. Because if you take someone somewhere you have to feel it, because let's say the city of Osijek where we're perfectly functioning both with the SDP and with the MOST in power and with the SDP and with the Most, we've cut our expenditures by, at the level of the city's salary administration, we haven't increased, we used the fund for.../incomprehensible/... But there to take more, then something must endure. The number of employees has decreased since we arrived in 2013, so the city administration from 270, 270 came to 214, down to, say Rijeka has thought 400, 500, Split 900, Zagreb God asks you how much perhaps, colleague Maras knows better he has doctored on a colleague, it doesn't matter 1,000 safely, perhaps more, but the bigger city is so less important. So that's where it shrinks, so it's not exactly like that everywhere. And we have to think about it, today in Osijek is a subsidized amount of kindergarten for a family with average incomes of 600 kuna, those who have lower subsidies are higher, but the real price is 1,200. And if we take away that money, someone's gonna have to pay somewhere and it's gonna break on the back of citizens who haven't felt anything or felt like 10 kunas of this tax reform, or this proposal. Now that's what can't happen to us, I don't know if it's because of the election or why, but we need to systematically look at this problem and work systematically and we welcome. I believe we'll probably be abstentioned to this is absolutely every tax discharge is good just have to be smart made and conceived, whether 1.2 through 3.4 different systems.../incomprehensible/... not as far as it comes to mind. Of course, it's always easier when you're in opposition to telling everyone everything, it's the best slogan. Put everything on the poster from 7 to 77 we'll give everything to everyone, and these here we don't care who don't have anything, per all. Why should someone be different, let's all go the same, give everything to everyone, so as long as it leads us, it's probably going down pretty fast. So, in conclusion, I would really like to, yes, I hope that we will sit again in new discussions and arrangements to consider some new models and proposals, because, of course, it is necessary to relieve the citizens of tax duties, which is the goal, of course, of all, but it should be sustainable. And it must not have those negative contraindications or consequences for our same citizens. Because then we'll say it's a super hick reform where you gave it to someone who has 7,000 kunas, and you took the life of someone who has 3.5 4. Well, I don't believe that this social democracy.../incomprehensible/... normal or smart... no one can tell me that. And it's actually a taste of the whole, whole story. That's why it's good to talk about this, and I hope this will encourage really much more because it has been seen that the increase in the simple currency on the market is, and the increase in purchasing power is increasing taxes, revenues and that we absolutely need to think and move in this direction. Here's thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141437	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Curaju. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so what we're hearing here today from the ranks is that this is, that everyone is supporting the principle of tax discharges, that they support wage growth, that our citizens have bigger salaries and that they're better off living, but it won't vote for that part, it won't support that part, it won't be, will be kept in this law because it's no good, it's no good, and basically nobody's saying what's wrong. Here, fellow Curaj is now called the last one-third of the citizens of this will have nothing. And he says 1/3 of the citizens don't get anything with this adoption of this law, but 2/3 get it, and 2/3 is more than 1/3 as far as I know. So 700,000 citizens will benefit directly if this law is passed. Not 15, 20,000 as in HDZ tax reform when only 15, 20,000 of the richest, most paid citizens in the Republic of Croatia felt a significant wage increase. This is a social democratic measure proposed by the SDP, which includes exactly the majority of our citizens, and there is no argument that only 1/3 or 1/3 won't win can't be an argument that this law would not be passed as it is. So what's most important is this law is sustainable, this law is real, and we've explained this law to fund it from where. Now it's just a matter of priority, a priority of this government, what are her priorities. This morning, at the first item of the agenda, we discussed the housing lending of young families and again the key to the whole debate was the pay, so young couples if they had no pay with which credit and that credit they returned then they had a bad incentive for housing. So, it's all about this part, and it's not true that the HDZ colleagues are saying that this law can't go through because we didn't add to it any changes to the Local Units Act, the financing of units of local and regional self-government and the VAT Act. We have proposed colleagues, we have proposed along with this law, but because of the Rules of Procedure with 30 jobs, we can only one law after six months on the agenda put into debate. That's what we have to say here, and that's what we've chosen from this main law. And when you're so psychic and comprehensive, why didn't you self-initiately put this second proposal that was connected to this and united the debate. So we could discuss it. But now you're using it as an argument why this shouldn't be adopted. And you knowingly deceive the citizens. And on the other hand, when it comes to humanisation and settlement within the HDZ, then you do not have a problem with the non-compliance of the laws that need to be changed. 1.4. this year, lex Mikulić gathered into force and we adjusted the inspection laws two days ago so that the law could work at all. Now you're calling yourself here like you in SDP, you're not doing it, you're supposed to give three legislative proposals at once, and when you do, you adopt one, the important thing for a man to sit on a chair, get a fat salary, to control inspectors all over the country, and then we're going to adopt laws so that it can work later. You see, that's not how it works, or those aren't your arguments. So, if you wanted, you could have put all our proposals into debate and discussed it today as a complete proposal. Secondly, this is the law in first reading. Here, I've heard a series of suggestions, I believe by the second reading you'll give the number, one part of the amendment to fix all this that's wrong, when you're all trying to make the salaries bigger, to be, to make people live better, and here we'll accept it. So this is what is sustainable, this is a proposal that is good and that can be implemented. And the key to everything is pay, so it's the only demographic measure and housing measure and stopping the emigration of young people. So young people abroad, in Ireland, where 300 thousand of our citizens have been paid better than for jobs in Croatia for the last three years, they are paid better. And that's what we in the SDP with this bill simply want to correct. And on the other hand, I'm saying, I haven't heard any argument that this is, why this is unsustainable and why this shouldn't be supported, just one third and you haven't put the papers on, so two billion kunas how much this law costs, we've proposed a model, where it's going to settle down. This clearly says here in our proposal for the Law on Change, the Law on the Financing of Units of Local and Regional Self-Government, which is on the agenda of this House 10 months last year, along with this law, we have worked it all out and you should have put it on the agenda today, regardless of why we didn't collect the signatures because we can't do business, but we'll gather the next month or month behind, and we'll discuss this again. So there's a proposed model on our side how to redistribute it financially, you could give amendments, you could give some other suggestions, you didn't, but you apriors refused everything because the SDP suggested it because the priorities of 2 billion kuna were invested in something else. Now that should be said clearly, these are differences that distinguish us in essence, these are things where we differ in priorities, we are social-democratic solutions and care for the equality of all citizens and you are obviously the priority of something else. And that's legitimate, that's no problem. HNS colleagues say, we're up for it, here we are now going to propose a solution to our partners so we within the coalition will agree and make a deal. So you give, give us 2, 3 amendments to these laws, support us, and then we'll bring it out together. We'll take it out together. ... Ha, let's let this fellow Cury know if there's enough of us or not enough of us, that would be, give us some support and we'll see. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Maybe it would have been enough of us if you hadn't run from the HNS there, maybe the government would have fallen, been an election, so maybe it would have been enough of us in some other power facility. ... Ha, well, I don't know, but I'm saying, here you said it was good, you'll be restrained, so back up the story. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So once again, this is a law that includes 700 thousand of our citizens who would immediately jump the lowest wages, which is sustainable, which is real and which is on the social side of a democratic trail of concern for 2/3 of our citizens, not only for 15, 20 thousand of those who are the most paid in this country who have paid for 2 or 3 thousand kuna by tax reform that HDZ has carried out on two occasions in this government, but to those who have the least, and that is that. That's it. So citizens believe what they get through their salary in their pocket, they don't believe in what someone will lower their price if the VAT is reduced or what their mayor or mayor in the municipality will do with their money. You give the citizens their money, then they'll spend it on their own. Here, that's it, so with this proposal, we don't leave cities and municipalities without funds, so we'd still be there... Not so fellow Peric, so that you read our proposal you would see. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, it's not true, so it's not true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's a proposal for a law amending the law on the financing of units of local self-government that we have proposed along with this law. It tells you that, so the funds from the Alignment Fund would be transferred to this part and the Alignment Fund would settle down from 1% of the VAT that you plan to lower next year, from which no one will have the effect except traders who won't release the prices. Because 1% is nothing again, that at least you cut the VAT as you promised by 2% or 3%, OK, but this is now 1% in the election year, effect 0. So, nice writing to you in there, how and what. And I'm saying, you could have given the amendments to fix it. So this is a sustainable proposal, a realistic one, and I expect the support of here and my colleagues from the HNS, and also that recently after, say, this peace reform that one part of the ruling majority voted for here, and now has given support to the referendum, I believe that this part of the ruling HDZ partner will also support us so that maybe this law will finally pass. And I invite all of you from HDZ, here's my colleague Peric alone, I'm sorry about that, so there's a colleague, Brkic, who runs the session, but this once again shows how much they care about these issues. But anyway, here's what I'm asking you to do, tell your colleagues in HDZ until the second reading I can make suggestions and let you fix this story then if that's wrong. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141439	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. We have replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coli Djujic, in this debate of yours and a small throw with his colleague Peric, who was left alone to defend the colours of the position, i.e. HDZ is not a fully enlightened issue and a clear question of why HDZ is so hateful when it is already boasted in certain situations that it is to disburse for this billion people, that it has returned to the citizens, I don't know how many hundreds of millions of kunas, through other tax reforms, which is why the problem in HDZ at the moment is only right, and this is to increase 600 thousand citizens' salaries in the Republic and allow them to have slightly greater personal incomes, so that they can live with dignity. So we haven't heard that, that answer at this point we haven't heard, we're hoping to hear it during the debate, and I doubt it, since the HZD is clearly hearing nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141441	Thank you, colleague Maras. The answer of my colleague, Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141442	Well, if we hadn't heard from my colleague, Maras. What we hear is every day the praise of the Minister of Finance and the representative of this government, in the exceptional budgeting, on the surplus on stable public finances, on the inflow from VAT, on other charges, etc. And then, on the other hand, when we have one piece here that should be let out to citizens who are visible and where most citizens would benefit from it, then we have resistance to it. Then here we hear from colleagues from HDZ is not the economic situation in the country, they are not economic opportunities. Now wait a minute, they're good opportunities or they're not good opportunities. What's the problem? What's the problem? So we have a government that has one-on-one revenues in the budget compared to the previous one, and it spends it on other things, obviously in buying a coalition partner, etc. If he won't give it to the citizens, he can. I don't see why they wouldn't give.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141443	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141444	We've got a little bit of a mix-up here is about the incomes of the local self-government unit. But the explanation of this law, which I have read, along with Article 1 requires an increase in the non-taxable part of income, from 3800 to 5000 kuna. Article 2 sets out the entry into force of the law, point, point, point, almost all of it, all this is the reason they welcomed. Other laws, let's move on, 1/3 gets nothing, yes, 2/3 employees, but then if you turned 2/3 of pensioners and employees don't get anything, and 1/3 do, because pensioners are also taxpayers on income, point. I'm glad you started with these liberal attitudes and I welcome it to let the citizens choose what they will or won't. And I'm in the debate on previous tax changes and I just repeated what I said, give the local self-government units to determine income tax rates, that's the right measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141445	Thank you, fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141446	Comrade Curaj, I will now give you the bill of law, again, on the financing of the unit of local self-government, which is an integral part of this law, which you did not put to debate, the ruling majority, along with this, where everything is worked out for you. I'll give it to you, so give it a little study until the second reading, and then it'll be clearer for you, and you'll be able to argue. As far as income is concerned, these are revenues from units of local self-government, but we have stated in our proposal, therefore, that these funds go to an increase in wages, and that 1% of VAT if you plan to reduce it from 1.1.2020. reroute to local self-government units for the font of alignment. That's it. And here, if you say so, support our law. Here I believe you will support us. Another thing, to mention the pensioners inside, are you counting these 300 thousand citizens who are no longer in Croatia? Who work elsewhere, should they also pay taxes on salaries they don't get in our country. Well, they're not employees, so if they were employees, they wouldn't leave Croatia, because of your policy, they're gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141447	I would like to thank my colleague Djujic, next replica of his esteemed colleague Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djijic, a fake dilemma appeared here, meaning whether 330 kuna salaries will be raised or maybe local self-government units will lose in terms of service quality and this and that. There's no such loss of service quality. So what you're talking about and pointing out, so that's a consistent plan, in which you're making up for money to local self-government units from one percentage point of VAT. Therefore, we also have to say, we cannot support those mayors and the mayors, who have made more money from the balancing fund, used for a lot of employment of the new administration, for which we have not and we have to point out all the time our own who have done this, exactly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141449	I thank my colleague Curai, I would kindly beg you not to enter my word. Answer from fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141450	That's right, fellow Greeks, there's a whole day of fake thesis being taken out, because they obviously didn't read our proposal, they didn't listen to a colleague Bernardic in his opening presentation, they were sneering there, so they were sneering at their colleagues from HDZ instead of listening to what he was saying, and then they might hear, and then they might know what we're proposing, as they obviously didn't listen to you in your debate on behalf of the club. So, I don't know if you need to draw, but here, if it's your problem to get off the council web, off the agenda of our proposals, read them and prepare them, here we can deliver you to the club the whole transcript, so get ready until the second reading, which I hope will be soon, so we can discuss in an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141451	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. Next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141452	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate has already moved this little bit away, it's said a lot, and when a man asks himself a question that's even the point of still discussing the subject that's clear as day, it's clear as it was today, here in the Republic, that with these changes people would get a little more pay than they've had so far. What's wrong with that, which there's a dispute here and for, call the liberal parties that are in the ruling coalition, because as they would support, but here, this time they won't, etc. Which is why we've been listening for years here for the third year of HDZ's government, as it relieves billions of kunas, and now it's saying that there's no more room for 2 and some billion kunas and when you compare the revenues of this government and the ones I've been in, for example, it's more than 20 billion kuna. Smaller income tax revenues were then than they are now. And when we talk about higher wages, two key parameters that must happen in the Republic of Croatia. One is that the reform, that is such a proud word but what we call reforms and what we want to happen in public administration, that HDZ does not suck up the tissue of Croatia and I would say to the substance that should be and serve the development of the Republic of Croatia, but that everything is being inserted into the public sector, that various new institutions are being set up, that new people are hiring, you simply don't understand where it can go. So that's why in the Republic of Croatia we finally don't have the possibility that those who are in power now make a bold move to get support from the opposition, which is to reduce public administration, to reduce the burden on entrepreneurs to have bigger salaries. One of those moves would be to increase this personal deduction to 5,000 kuna. Yeah, there'd be two billion and some kunas less walking, but what's the problem? Which is why the state has to be that leech that sucks up everything that people in this country make fair and bloody profit, and small entrepreneurs and medium entrepreneurs and they're a little bigger, etc., 300 kuna. So today our people are going to the neighbouring country of Slovenia, Austria, Italy to earn the same job once and twice as much pay. Are there more prices for these products than in Croatia? No, they're not. Does he pay more than Croatia? They're eating. There's twice as many. And then a man wonders how it's possible? Why do you get 50% higher wages for the same job in Slovenia, the price is about the same, where this difference is located, so they are not small entrepreneurs and when you do jobs that are more work-oriented, so there are no special innovations like I don't know, certain craftsmen who do electrical installations, masons, malara, these are jobs where there are no much more productivity in Croatia and Slovenia, which makes them pay more than what Croatia is, Mr. Curaj? It's a very simple answer. Because the state is too expensive. There shouldn't be too much genius to figure it out until we take that step, until it makes a wheel back that we don't have a Mikulic's awakening, but we have the drying of Mikulic, paraphrasing that man doesn't get angry. So until that thing is looked at in another way, it won't be easier for people who live and work in the Republic of Croatia. And it's not true that it's not possible to free this money and make bigger wages, it's not true that 600,000 people couldn't have 300 and more kunas of higher wages, it's not true that it couldn't be compensated from other tax revenues by a certain fund for balancing, compensation, whatever you want to call it, all that's possible is that the HDZ government doesn't do it and doesn't want to do it. The question is why, perhaps, there is something also in that the units of local self-government as the representative Boric discovered there, they say they are fighting because they have smaller units under their control, then it is logical that the man is itchy, so the fellow Boric is fighting to make the administration and the public service as much as possible because most of them control HDZ, so let's call it the right name, let's say HDZ is fighting for not to take 2 billion kunas here so that as many people as possible have in public service that they control tomorrow in some elections, those people depending on them come out to vote for HDZ, this little healthy competition and happily capable people go to them, according to the HDZ in Ireland, Germany, Spain, Italy, wherever, it is not important to remain those who are in public service. And that's what the problem is, and until it's cleared up, until he's aware of it, there's no luck. And on the other hand, I really have to admit that it's a strange situation that I feel in a little bit and senselessly like this to discuss where one, two MPs sit there, listen, there's almost no discussion or controversy, everyone can't wait for the debate to end as soon as possible because the Rules of Procedure has to take place and most likely the opposition not to be at all. What I'm saying is that people must be aware that there are alternatives offered by some new solutions, that it can be different, that it's not true that everything the opposition proposes is bad and inconclusive, that Mr Zrinasic must probably, by the order of the minister, say that this is not an impact on the state budget, as if it's not a 10% increase in the debt pensions or the expansion of the rights of the population that HDZ assumes will only vote for them, and that's not the problem, money is given for that. Tomorrow, when I have a press conference here with the Teachers' Union, it's gonna be a problem to hire technical staff in schools, and then cleaning girls have to plan the week after which classes they'll clean up every day instead of cleaning all classes. So a lot of things we in Croatia unfortunately have done wrong, I hope the time will come when a grain of reason will prevail, rather than petty interests as it is in principle with us in the Republic of Croatia in action. Here, that's what I was going to say, and I'm going to finish the debate a little bit, and I'm going to finish the debate a minute and 35 seconds before the end, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141453	Thank you, colleague Maras. We have replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141454	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you mentioned in your debate that HDZ is struggling to go to the units of local self-government that are under their control and where they hire their party colleagues and supporters so that they can get votes in some of the elections through that model again, and that's that, that's what we're talking about. So, it's not that there's no money, there's money, it's only a matter of priorities, the question is what's the priority, so the SPD's is a pay increase of 700,000 of our fellow citizens about, that number of 2/3 employees, and HDZ's priority is to increase employees in HDZ's administration, so party listeners, their friends and future voters, it's just a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141455	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141456	To achieve HDZ priorities are wrong, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141457	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Grcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you know we've been considering some other variants of the type of reduction of this rate of 24%. However, increasing personal deductions to 5.00 kn is the only measure that helps people with low wages more, and is less relative to people who have more. So that's something that's in line with some of our principles to help first of all those who have fewer and I think it's one added value of this whole package and I think it's really thoughtful, consistent and that it goes in favor of people with the lowest wages, and that still pay some tax. So all those who pay less than € 330,00 will no longer pay, and those who pay more than € 330,00 tax will pay less for € 330,00 and that is that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141459	I thank my fellow Greek. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141460	Look, fellow Greek, one of the stupidest arguments I've heard today, that no one is offended is saying, over 70% of people don't pay a tax in the Republic at all, not including, as you said, underage citizens who don't work at all, so they can't even pay taxes, including 90% or 90% of pensioners in the Republic where the average pension is neither able to reach a few thousand kunas in order to pay any tax, including those who are minimal and normal, but here we're talking about 30% of people who work and earn some money and defacto create the most in the Republic. What's wrong with raising these people's salaries to several hundred kunas? Logic is very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141461	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. Next replica, dear colleague Zdravko Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141462	Thank you. When in HS you have a representative who is 39 years old. Life, not a day's work outside of these benches, when he's 37 years old. You are entitled to a pension that is greater than £7.500,00 if today activates it, and you, Mr. Maras, are not far away, and so are you, then what you are doing is dishonest, hypocritical and selling fog. And that's why citizens need to know that as soon as possible in the first election, they would move you out of here and keep you out of space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141463	Dear colleague Ronko, I would ask you nicely if you did not, in your statement do not disdain fellow MPs. Here's a colleague of Maras for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141464	Thank you very much. I must admit, I'm amazed at the amount of bitterness and anger spoken from fellow Ronk. So, I was, uh, respecting some of the things he'd done in the past in SDP, relatively correct, though it disgusts me when someone betrays their voters the way he did it. But this kind of anger and inaccuracy is simply incomprehensible to me. So if you have not suggested anything as an agent in these last 2 years, if you have betrayed your voters, if you are motivated to call because I don't hear you talking here at all in HS, it motivates you to answer just to spill the bile on your former colleagues, so please, then be fundamentally polite and don't answer at all, here's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141465	I thank my colleague, Maras, and I ask you nicely not to disrespect my colleagues in their sayings. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Ronko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141466	Thank you very much. This is obviously far from the subject, 238, excuse me, so I think you should warn him, I haven't shed any bitterness, I'm just here, and I've been making suggestions and speaking in this HS, and as far as that bitterness is concerned, I just need to know that I'm just waiting for them to leave the SDP, so that I can go back there, to clean up that space too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141467	Comrade Ronko, I would ask you nicely not to abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I am a colleague of Maras, as well as of you, asking and warning you to adjust our sentences to this High House and not to give up our conduct on the general rules of conduct and there was no need for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141468	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. Yeah, it's nice. It's nice to listen to these pre-election speeches, appropriate speeches on some anniversarys, celebrations, reading these furnished statistics, but if you want to know the other side of the medal, in fact the truth, it would be good to look around you a little, to use your own senses, to walk the streets, to talk to people. And then you'll simply notice that in fact, everything you look at around you is collapsing. That people are very unhappy. In fact, they're angry. To feel played and betrayed, and to see in their own state the enemy, not the Allies. Chaos and apathy prevail, and the government acts like that cricket in a story that plays all summer without realizing that it basically destroys itself. And I by, I don't know which times I'm going to repeat that, in fact, this Parliament has the power to change things, but unfortunately it doesn't change them. It is right in the House that the problems we are discussing today can be solved, meaning the problems of low wages and pensions, but as far as you can see, there are no MPs in the House. Because those MPs who are here aren't even representatives of the people. They are representatives of their party bosses and interest groups who decide nothing. And if they were to decide, then the first thing would come here, and the second thing, then they would find solutions very quickly that would give birth to the whole economy. Here I can now, on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, only mention some of the solutions that could help raise wages. One of these solutions is the introduction of minimum wage instead of minimum wage. It means introducing how much one hour of work, as exists throughout the EU, so that only one third of the Irish wages, which is EUR 9.25, would be introduced to us, for example, would already be paid at a minimum of about 4 thousand kuna. No matter how embarrassing it is that someone would work for 3 euros an hour, but to introduce it, the average man works for 168 hours a month, so count, times 3, that would already be about 3 thousand 800, 3 thousand 900 kuna, almost 1,000 kuna more than the current minimum. Then we repeat countless times to remove parafiscal intrusion. What are we paying the cut for? What's that for? Why do craftsmen have to pay for HGK membership? What does HRT charge have to pay for? What must be paid taxes on forests, taxes to the tourist community, monumental rent, income tax much higher than in other countries of Eastern Europe? Why do you have to pay for this re-explication of documents all the time? Now they're re-announced some new IDs, new driver's licenses, housewives, birth certificates, any fees, any marks. What are these marks for? That's what breaks their home budget for the citizens, so they lose between five and ten thousand kunas a year on such things. Also, what are budget surpluses used for? So when you create a budget surplus, it's spent on hiring party personnel, it's spent on getting cans from Israel, it's spent on building a LNG terminal that's absolutely invaluable. It's invaluable. No one will benefit from that, and all of this goes to the expense of taxpayers. Why, instead of giving for LNG, planes and all those things I've just listed, let's not increase for example. he pays to nurses, who are highly underpaid and who leave the country mass. Why don't we raise our salary to those cops? Did you hear, I believe it is, there are no police officers in three Croatian counties anymore. If they had to be imported, we'd be importing cops. Why don't we introduce a general and special bank tax? Banks don't make anything like in Croatia. We have already proposed that measure for banks to tax, be careful now, with only 0.6% of taxes. Extraordinaryly small, irrelevant. What banks wouldn't feel in any way. Here, the tax, you made fun of him, although we demanded that all the funds that would be collected through such a tax be directly given for demographic measures to Croatian families. Being a worker in Croatia today means being a second-class citizen. Sometimes workers are the term, they're even put on bills. They were protected by all rights, and today they're... Every measure. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Their own assets were organized by a site in which they must be slaves to campers, party heads and associated tycoons, and all for wages that are not enough for anything but to survive a few days a month when a hell of a cycle of borrowing and borrowing begins again in every way possible to keep people alive. From spending on cards, from investing in minus on running to raising cash loans every little bit and most often to borrowing money from relatives and acquaintances. Workers in Croatia today are plagued by constant uncertainty, they have to work longer and longer to have an ever lower standard. They are afraid that tomorrow they will be fired, replaced by foreign and imported workers to be replaced by foreign imported workers, and that they will have to leave overnight by their families' homeland for several hundred years and move into the unknown. How does a man of 40, 50, 60 feel? who must leave the Republic of Croatia and go abroad where he knows neither the good language nor who he knows, nor knows what he can expect? It is unfortunately the fate of the Croatian state and, above all, this HS intended for its own sons and daughters. I have nothing else to say at the end of this debate, I have already said many times, but this time I will point out that what I am saying, I am saying in full consciousness, I am fully aware of every sentence and I am taking responsibility for what I am about to say, and that is, Croatian citizens, if the Living Wall is able to participate in power, be absolutely sure that we will significantly increase the lowest wages and pensions, there is no doubt about it because it is our absolute priority. If you allow this current ruling majority, the Frankenstein coalition, built of not knowing all the mutually conflicted options that connect only and only the grab over the budget money still decides on your lives, be assured that not only will you not be better, but it will be even worse for you than it has been so far. Folks, you decide, you have the ability to decide in 19 days, May 26th, choose darkness or light, truth or lie, past or future. If you get up, I'm telling you, maybe you can see a new Republic of Croatia on May 27th, the one you dreamed of on May 30,1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141469	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjc for this closing statement for his election campaign. We're moving on to replicas, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, come in. Comrade Bunjac, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you have pointed out as an example that we could increase the salaries of nurses, you have also pointed out the problem of the lack of police officers in certain areas, especially in certain areas. However, here I would only add to it teachers and teachers, these are certainly the most underpaid highly educated people in the Republic of Croatia, and given everything that has been put before them as a challenge since the next school year, a lot of confusion called curriculative reform, I think they deserve to be further valorised and that finally now that the Republic of Croatia has gone better, they will be the first to feel it on their salaries, and I don't mean this little increase that happened by playing the ancient annex of the contract still signed by Jadranka Kosor, but I think that a serious increase in the salary to teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141471	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141472	Thank you, well-respected representative of the Voice. So you're absolutely right. Teachers are underpaid, they are highly educated people, many of them today already have PhDs and master's and various advancements and trainings, which means they can't meet some middle class standard in the Republic of Croatia. So, we, as far as we have, are teachers with blocked accounts, etc., and these same teachers are effective in one day doing more than many parliamentary representatives in a month. For his 5 or 6 hours x 45 minutes he speaks far more and far more participates and far more people communicate, than a parliamentary representative in this House, I agree with you, wages should be increased to teachers and also significant, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141473	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141474	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, I am interested in your opinion whether you see the link and the intention of HDZ's behaviour when we talk about raising the administration or the emergence of new institutions such as the inspectorate and do you see a link between not having such employment and incarceration in order to be able to redistribute this part of budget expenditure and to increase people's wages? Why is HDZ in the interest of exactly what I just said to arrest as many people as possible and why they don't want to make it possible for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the 30% who are the most productive and most contributing to society, to have a slightly higher salary than simply driving them out of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141475	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141476	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. Yeah, HDZ's starting some new agencies every day, you're right, let's say we've been having intercept agencies lately, right? And now let's say you have an interception of e-mails, you have a intercept of text messages, you have a intercept of statements on BUSKOK, you have a skip on DORH, so it's now one of these new interests, there's a couple of dozen people, you see some like this in the fus, the other directly in the state institutions, like Mr. Personal Security Advisor, etc. So they have, they have, they have means time here is to deal with such one upgrade, such fine jobs, they certainly don't have to come to work in the morning at 6, work up to 2, to 4, to 5, work overtime, so we have what we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141477	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, I am encouraged by this final part of your debate, so I will try to repeat, you said that in full consciousness, common sense and full responsibility you say what you said, and you said when the Living Wall is participated in a future government, if the Living Wall is participated then everyone will get paid. Now, unlike when you're talking, when you're not fully conscious, then you usually talk when the Living Wall is in power, and now you say when it's participating in power. So I'd be interested if you could explain to me who you're going to be collating with, here's what I'd like to know to see who you're going to be participating with in power, here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141479	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. The answer of my colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141480	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic, so the answer is too simple. We've been in the coalition since day one, we share a club with the SNAGA party. Every time I speak, I speak for the Living Wall and the Power, that's what the vice president of HS and others say. But what is important, I just wanted to say that all parties promise more salaries and higher pensions, but when the elections go through and they take part in the government, then they screw up and they simply forget their promises or bring them down to an increase of several-tenths of kunas that barely cover inflation and then call it the fulfillment of the promised one. We in the Living Wall, I repeat once again, will significantly increase wages and on that we will either exist or disappear, and I'm sure this will be the first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141481	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues, there are times in the country when we are not doing very well, when it is difficult, when economic and other movements are negative and when, in some ways, as the people say, we need to tighten the belt, and there are times when we are getting better and when we really need to make investment priorities very clear at that point. We thus remember in the Republic of Croatia when it was not easy, when it had to be saved and cut even on this important item for every citizen's life in the Republic of Croatia, these are salaries and pensions, but we haven't forgotten ourselves either, I will only remind myself that the SDP governments at times when they had to tighten the belt towards the citizens in order to sort of balance and stabilise the Croatian budget, reduce the salaries of the parliamentary representatives, abolished the preferential pensions, and that was one symbolic sign that those who make decisions and who manage the state at times when it is difficult to share in some way the fate of the people, which of course will never be because they are incomparable salaries of parliamentary representatives and most officials with, not only salaries, but also the standard of an average Croatian citizen, but it is extremely important to send such messages and look at the whole concept in such a way. We are now in a situation where we are doing something better, we daily in HS, not only from government representatives, but also from representatives of the position in HS we have the opportunity to hear that we have a surplus in the budget, how our credit rating is growing, how GDP is satisfactory compared to some previous years and we are coming into a situation that Croatian reality remains devastating or the way Croatian citizens live is actually defeating. So 1,200,000 people live on the edge of poverty and social exclusion. The same number of people, meaning 1200,000 of our citizens have a salary less than average and we have heard it many times today, that is as many as 75% of the total staff, as a colleague of Greece said, speaking here on behalf of the SDP Club of Representatives. In addition, if we add more workers to that number of people, and they don't pay, because unfortunately, there are still cases of people working in the Republic of Croatia, and they don't get paid, if we add people who work part-time or who are sick, we come up with another 200,000 additional people who actually barely make ends meet, because what else do you call the fact that you can't get paid or from your income, from your income, cover basic life needs. And it is not surprising that not only young people, but also middle-generation people with their entire families leave the Republic of Croatia, it is often said that they are often the reason for their departure is not only the inability of employment and low wages, but simply the atmosphere that exists in society, which is quite demotive, which does not put any hope into any kind of justice system where they will, by their education, by their perseverance, by their perseverance, manage to provide themselves with some kind of life worthy of man. They don't mean to live in some kind of excess of prosperity or get rich overnight, but unfortunately, they lose hope in this country and go away, they leave us every day. On the other hand, the cost of life is growing, and we had the opportunity to hear it today. Unfortunately, a package of tax laws, so-called Tax reform has not yielded fruit, let's just remember the reduction in VAT on food, but unfortunately, the reduction in VAT did not affect the more favourable position of the end-user and we do not testify that the food they buy is cheaper. On the contrary, it is the impression that in this way, with this tax reform, with a concrete measure of VAT reductions, the shopping centres, some import lobbys, I hope that this was not the government's intensity when it proposed and when Parliament adopted this measure amongst other things. What is also detiming and insulting, for example, when the minister and not any minister, but Minister Pavić, the minister of work, says that 3,000 kunas are enough to receive a decent life, is perhaps from the chair of a parliamentary representative or from the perspective of the minister and his comfortable armchair, but it really needs to stay away from these statements because these statements are either rude or extremely humiliating to any citizen of the Republic of Croatia or simply speak of a minister who has no contact with reality, who lives in a parallel universe, in cotton, with one golden spoon and doesn't know what's happening around him in Croatia. We can do this job for this salary, certain benefits of it but we should never lose touch with reality and see how people live, the ones at the end of the line that we're here for. Unfortunately, by tax reform when we reduced the tax burden for the highest salaries in Croatia, the minister assured us that the reason for keeping the highly educated quality personnel needed by Croatia to stay here, work here, contribute here, while pointing out pharmacists, doctors, IT experts, but today we have the opportunity to see that these people unfortunately did not enter this category. The category was not even attended by parliamentary deputies because they are not the richest layer of society, perhaps Prime Minister Plenkovic of officials entered. However, 15 000 rich people in Croatia have only felt the benefits of this measure and if the intensity of this measure as it was said here to keep people in Croatia, to spend here, to develop the country, we have completely missed what is said, "we have been waving the whole football" quote is that you do not think I do not know how to use the Croatian standard language in the Croatian Parliament. And third, an example of the employment of 500 new people in the administration of the newly invented State Inspectorate so that Andrija Mikulić could be removed from the Zagreb organisation and settled somewhere to get rid of him, will cost us 72 million kuna a year. It's calculated here. That's four times what this government singled out in 2017 to subsidize loans to young families, that's what we discussed here this morning. This is almost twice as much as will be allocated from the Croatian budget to subsidise housing loans to young families in 2018, 2019 and 2020. I think this is all about priorities in the Republic of Croatia which are important to us and what is not important to us but we are selling a story about the importance of keeping young people in Croatia, about the importance of the demographic restoration of Croatia and then 4 and 2 outs of less isolation to make it easier for them to buy the first real estate than we are going to single out for the employment of 500 new people in a fictional newly established inspectorate just so that Andrija Mikulić could be the chief state inspector. I wonder what key these 500 people in the state administration will be hired for. All by law, all by competition, but the I.D. won't be off-limits, we know whose. And finally, the 2 billion kunas that are supposed to be implemented by this law may sound a lot, but in the long run, they are not, in this way we would allow 330 to 500 kunas of higher wages per month to our fellow citizens and I appeal once again to the government to consider this when you have already refused our proposal to increase the minimum wage in Croatia to 4000 kuna, to accept at least this to increase the untaxable work to 5000 kuna, making our fellow citizens profit from 330 to 500 kuna per month. And let's not look at those 2 billion, who wants to find a way, who won't find an excuse, I hope you're not just going to take this opportunity with an excuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141483	I thank my colleague Glasovac, I would like to ask you nicely to contact the proposing representatives if anyone shows up because if no one is present we can continue the debate, I think it would be correct to have one of the proposing representatives there, so these are colleagues Bernardić, Grčić, Maras and Lalovac. We're moving on to replicas, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141484	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Glasovac, you said that it may not actually be that much pay for leaving Croatia. I would say, however, that it is because later in the debate you mentioned actually those people that Minister Pavić holds on to 3,000 kuna, believing it to be a dignified salary. You later mentioned that the tax reform that this government has brought to an improvement has brought only 15 000 of the richest. Isn't that enough reason and isn't that why people are leaving this country? I think these are more than enough reasons for people to leave because first is what Minister Pavić is saying, embarrassing and this second is extremely embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141485	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141486	Well, colleague Alfirev, perhaps the pay or salary level is the reason for going to the type of nurses, the doctor of IT experts, but for a good part of Croatian citizens, I don't think that's the key reason and exactly what they're saying is that the bad atmosphere, the bad climate, the society where the perception of corruption is enormous. People would work for less, people are ready to tighten their belt, look at teachers and teachers, they'll always plant their backs, they'll let their wages be cut, the kicks will go over it, they won't strike, but in the hope that there's a higher goal behind it. That it'll get better. Yeah, we have to sacrifice ourselves today so we can all get better tomorrow. But it's not there. It's only better for some, not for everyone, and people don't want it to be a better life. They really want a better life for everyone, not just just them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141487	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Next replica, dear colleague Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141488	Thank you very much. I don't mean to be Minister Pavic's lawyer, but I voted against his reform first, and I prayed here, calling for his social sensitivity to give it up. Why not, I don't know, but you told your colleagues that he had no real contact with reality, so I'd just say correct you. Minister Pavić worked for 2,000 kuna at the Slap Association where I was in a long time and I know the facts. So that's all I wanted to say. And with 3,000, of course, you can't live with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141489	Thank you, colleague Voter's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141490	Then he probably forgot somewhere along the way what it's like to live, is, so how can a dead cold say that 3,000 kunas are enough for a decent life in Croatia? Maybe it was when he worked for it, maybe the prices weren't like that? Perhaps there was a more healthy atmosphere in society after all. Today it certainly isn't. Today you can't do anything with three thousand kunas and you know it very well. I worked at school when I started six hours for 700 kuna, and then half a hour for two and a half, three thousand kuna. But a man can't do it forever. From that you can't plan anything, no future, it's survival, and today 75% of Croatian citizens can automatically say survive, they're magicians in everyday life. Magicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141491	Thank you for your response to my colleague, Voter. Next debate, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141492	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Secretary of State. Well, we've said a lot this time since the debate on our proposal is going on, and I really don't know how you could still argue on top of what's been said so far because how else do you say this law is better or that it will do more for more citizens than what it's done through reform, through tax reform, through a package of tax reform that has come into effect? How else do you argue that this law touches all those who currently do not feel the benefits of tax reform of this government? How else do you say that, if we accept this proposal, all those who work for the salaries we're talking about here, and that includes all those who work in schools, who work in the welfare system, all those who, well, here's the information, all those who work for these average salaries to win this bill. The most I have come to recall for this debate was just your words on the board today, Secretary of State, and I think that, or it was through a replica, I don't remember exactly now, but I think it was also a debate on the subject when you mentioned that this law and what this increase is proposed, which would be somewhere between 300 and 500 kuna, that you were actually through your proposal and through the reform that was adopted is given in a different way. That you got through those 5,000 which are an untaxable receipt and which employers can pay to the workers. I think it's very, very bad. A very bad comparison because what we're proposing, this law that we're proposing, it would bring an increase in wages for 700 thousand people, workers. What you're talking about, and personally I think that was a very bad suggestion and that was extremely bad and I really don't know, I'd like to have some time and information about how much it is, what statistics it is, and how many employers are just paying off these 5,000 kunas of untaxable income and how it is. I'd be very interested to know if they're employers who pay people minimum wage or maybe those who have a little above minimum wage because that would be extremely bad. Because that means they don't deliberately increase workers' wages, but through these legally you give them the opportunity and you give them the opportunity to increase the increase, so that net amount, and in fact that part will never feel like retirement. And you have to admit that. So that amount, 5,000 kuna a year will never be felt on pension. And he will not be increased by it, and the worker will be cut off, and later the pensioner will be cut off. We had a lot of opportunities and a lot of opportunities when we talked about the whole package of tax reform back then, a lot of MPs shared my opinion, and that's when I also talked about it, and today I think that's how it is. And I'm saying, I like to have analysis that if you deny me it'll be great, but if the employers paid you monthly by I don't know 400 kn to actually raise that net salary and keep social peace then that's not good. Otherwise, I don't mind, but if we're really stable with wages and stable society, if we have a really stable wage policy and a bigger minimum wage, then we can go to this non-taxable part and increase even through rewards to the workers. But in this way I'm afraid that you have not achieved the goal and that the goal you wanted has not been achieved unless it was really the goal of helping some employers to, without doing so, just by not paying the contributions increase and satisfied workers. The question is also how many employers can pay off and that untaxable part is what's significant, surely someone who's a teacher won't get that, won't get psychologists in the social welfare system, they won't get that. So they won't through this untaxable part of yours, because the state won't let them, and some don't get it, I don't know if they get all the Christmases, the resurrections, the regressions again depend on the negotiations, but through this, if we accepted this proposal, then we'd increase the salaries and teachers, psychologists, social workers, informers, nurses, doctors to all of them. I don't think so. Currently, wage increases are really only for those who have extremely high salaries, extremely high, it is not a reform that Croatia needs, it is not a good way to do. So I'm sorry that there are really no more people in the House that we can discuss this more, but this is one of the things that's really little to mention, and there's too little analysis of how much of what you've done so far is affecting and how much else it might actually affect the increase in poverty. I'm afraid that for some categories of people there will be an increase in poverty, and that's what's not good and what shouldn't be good, and I'd like to say, in conclusion, if we're already boasting about a better, better situation we talked about earlier, and I'm going to talk about a report from the Croatian People's Bank that we actually have a better situation in this sense in monetary terms. You boast and the government boasts of other successes then indeed a number of citizens should feel that in Croatia it is better, unfortunately, every day still show that it is not so, that it is different really people would not go away, but people continue to go away and that is what you fight to keep an eye on, and once again I say this law would in any case increase the salary for more people it is 700,000 people compared to the current law that is implemented which is good for only 15,000 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141493	I would like to thank my fellow Alfirev, the next debate of a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141494	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues, very briefly I did not have any other business opportunities... The debate with my colleague, Djujic, so I'll only briefly relate to what was in the replicas when we spoke and when I spoke on behalf of the club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I welcome this proposal, of course, and I welcomed it in contrast with my colleagues and I welcome the proposal that we have increased the threshold for the second to enter the higher tax rate on income, and it is not as much as 15000 as is said if I am well aware of 30 000, although we understand that, and our colleague Bernardić is not more than what you are proposing today, is this 30 000 not coming in or the state has not lost more than 2.4 billion kn, so these are not comparable sizes. I also said that this law must be observed in that or this bill in terms of all its consequences... and that is why we should approach not only the amendment of the law that fellow Djujic stated when we talked about the reasoning then I quoted Article 1 of this draft law as saying that an increase in the non-taxable part of income from 3800 to 5 and Article 2 laid down the entry into force of the law and its law on amendments and the law on the financing of the working unit of local regional and regional self-government is prescribed to change the share of the city's municipalities from 60 to 73% and in the counties from 21% to 17 and abolishing the share of fiscal decentralisation and is then said in that explanation which was mentioned in Article 1 a new redistribution of income from income tax is prescribed so that the implementation of the tax on income is abolished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 2 is amended as follows: These are all the arguments we talked about, and there's a missing part of the value added tax law and we of the Value Added Tax Act. And if we already wanted it, then we should've jumped first and said hop, secure the funds first, and then go to change. If you want just when you have two laws, then you chose which, then this law on the financing of units of local self-government goes first, ask for support to create a prerequisite for this law to be applied. And in parallel, we still need the VAT Act. Because going into this discharge, which I support and the point is good let's not cut VAT by 1%, but it doesn't say anywhere here in any other law, that's what you said in the explanations, I say hello. But now we have to make decisions not.../incomprehensible/... because someone said something, not based on the law, on the proposal or on what it says. And so I say we sit down, we will support all the laws that are relevant for our citizens to be tax-free regardless of what pay they have, because this takes a lot of money to units of local self-government to finance kindergartens, transports, sports, cultures, certain social benefits, and we cannot leave them without it, because then the standard worsens those who have, say, 4,000 kuna salaries that get maybe 10 or 70 kuna increases, and the kindergarten collects 200. And we killed them, and that's not the point of any political work or social democracy or anything. And that's why I'm saying, we're all very supportive of this, the idea is in place, but it has to be feasible. We can't do a certain part, I'm not going to go into the political opportunity of the election right now, who's going to get more touchy, who's going to give more etc., etc., we just can't think about going to a part of it, and actually destroying the part that's most needed, and that's the one that has the least. We have to think about them, too. Therefore, I will continue to insist on reducing further VAT on food, because it then affects those who have the least, and we cannot possibly increase the salary by any tax relief because they pay more taxes. And when we talk about pensioners and how we should look at the same thing, then not only unilaterally but look at everything, especially those who need it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141495	I'd like to thank my colleague Curaj. Replica esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141496	Here I thought I wouldn't answer, but you just said the most important thing, so if something is going on then it has to be comprehensive and it has to be in all segments consistent. Therefore, the original income of local self-government units is not VAT, so it is not regulated by law but is income tax. And he was the most generous and the goal of this government was to strengthen the units of local and regional self-government, to be these developmental bearers, to keep people in these cities and cities and municipalities and thus to develop and infrastructure and encourage the use of European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141497	Thank you, colleague Curaj's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141498	I thank you, that my colleague Peric thinks that in this second law, which is now not on the agenda that was constantly mentioned there, abolishing the funds for balancing and saying that it will be provided elsewhere, it has an impact on the state budget, but it does not say how. We need to have a third law that will then follow, so that's all inconclusive. We know that this is a good idea for me, which should be well worked out and all the consequences seen and made us leave room if we go into tax relief and those who are the poorest. And we're all talking here about how impossible it is to live with three thousand kunas. Someone's got one child receiving 5,000 kuna, 0 kuna will get in this proposal, so what are we gonna do for him? We're talking about those who 80, 20,000 kuna as.../incomprehensible/... That's why we're looking at the reduction, the drastic rate of VAT on food, that they feel something, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141499	Thank you for your response. Next debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141500	I thank Mr. Vice President, taxes and tax policy is something that is the foundation of the state and relations in the country, that the opportunity to go a little bit to Greek philosophers about the state was spoken of by Plato and Aristotle. Plato was divided into three divisions, philosophers and soldiers and slaves. Aristotle in 2, controllers and stock slaves. They say Aristotle was more real about it. This one, but that he made a mistake in the initial premise because he thought or vice versa, I did not study very closely that the slaves themselves are special, and others believe that slaves, that slaves become in relation to the state. Now, it's a little excessive to say in the 21st century the word slaves, which is why I'm not going to use that term, but it's very clear. So, that's better said now the state is somebody's mother, and someone's a stepmom. The one whose mother had the opportunity to watch every day on various occasions or to miss something is done or something is done or something is done to someone else's service, and then he returns the favor, etc. They say that the reason for creating a state lies in mutually helping people to meet life's needs and now the role of the state is to regulate from what we all put together to take those who have more to those who have less, that's what taxes do. So usually taxes are taken from those who have, and taken away from those who have more and to those who have less. This proposal is precisely the mark of this, therefore, that those who have the least to gain both relatively and absolutely the most and have no excessive counterarguments against it, because, therefore, who in this case would lose. We'd lose each other and those who've already won. When did they get it? Last tax reform, how much did they get? Enough that instead of being in the replica at the beginning of Mr. Secretary of State, instead of investing in money and their resources in infrastructure and what their community needs to meet the needs of citizens, they increased the salaries of the administration. I'm not saying, of course, that people who work in the administration don't need to get a pay raise, but it's a little interesting how it all worked out that, as some media say, they've even been quoted in the Ministry of Finance, shocked. Therefore, the role of the state and our Social Democrats is especially in this, when we consider that conditions are created, which is now, that is, when we have proposed the law, it is already more, when the state is wrestling and the increased revenues of the budget, it just means that it takes too much of the citizens, there is no other, there is no other, there is some large, causal relationship, that it is more justly distributed, and in that, there is a big debate in all the orderly and normal European countries, I would like that this debate was also a little wider audience in a little more polite time, but there is no connection, somewhere here it will remain recorded what we have said. And in this regard, I support the proposal given by the SDP Representatives' Club and I believe that it should continue to be continued. What I would still like to add in income tax because there is a secretary of state, and I will use it, and that is one of the very unfair relations with the units of local self-government located on the coast and in tourist areas because it turns out that those of the income tax for the calculation of income tax or the flat rate for renting of property that they have on their territory get nothing because it goes towards the residence of the owner, and on the other hand, that unit invests in the infrastructure so that you can rent out so that if in one of the next changes you could do it, I would personally be very pleased. Let's cut back on how, to cut short and quote the prime minister, in one current morning, he said I could do what I wanted, because he wants this, we could do this, but as he won't, this will be when someone who wants and can come, and hopefully it will happen very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141501	I thank my colleague, Bauk. We have a replica, dear colleague Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141502	Thank you. When your boss is 39 years old, not a day's work outside these benches, when he's 37 years old and he's entitled to retire, which he'll activate now, and if he leaves right now, he'll be over 7.5 thousand kuna, then what you're doing is dishonest, hypocritically, selling the fog, and that's what MP Maras is making me sick. Therefore, it is necessary, why do I repeat it? So the citizens know that. To get you out of here as soon as possible so you don't contaminate the area any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141503	I thank my colleague, Bauk. I'd like to ask you one more time to adjust the dictionary's expression. We have the first answer to the replica of our esteemed colleague, Bauk, and then we'll... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141504	I expected exactly this kind of replica of these words, so as far as the biography of the SDP president, as I recall, he was a top physics student, and first Zoran Milanovic suggested him once on a list like you, then for the second time on a list like you, for the 3rd time on a list like you and for the 4th time on a list like you, and you've never objected so far, and don't rebel now or anything else, she has 3 numbers, 3-5, I don't need to go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141505	Thank you, colleague Bauk, I would like to ask you to stick to the subject, not the internal... thank you very much, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141506	Yeah, just a moment, I forgot to say that Mr. Bauk is the same as when it comes to, maybe a few years older, but it's all the same, but I've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, 238, I think it's not right for you to remind me that you should act exactly like all the other presidents at this table, and I have to remind you that when this three proposed to move me, Milanka Opačić, Habeka and Anna Comparić not to pollute the space, so you moved us, you didn't warn them, no matter who was sitting at this table, and I think that you should all be equal, that would be correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141507	Thank you, dear colleague. Thank you, dear colleague Ronko. [[Intruder: So it's known that this is now nice for the dear.]] I seek to be just and just and correct toward all. I don't remember me presiding when it was that sentence. Since I have already warned you and asked you twice and now that I consider that there have been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I give you a reminder based on an article. 239. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141508	I'm Mr. 238, I'm gonna get a warning, but I'm gonna use 30 seconds. I mentioned the word pollution in the context of light pollution that we have every Friday on this board right at the time of the vote, and I didn't think that those people who are up there are contaminating space rather than just light pollution on the board, so if colleagues accept it, well, that metaphor is good, and if not, good again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141509	I thank my colleague Bauk for this metaphor. You have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure under Article. 239 I give you a warning. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141510	Vice-President of the Parliament, it is too late, but there are some questions to be answered, the first question raised by fellow HNS Curray is "Is It Late?" It's not too late since VAT comes from 25 to 24% down to 2020. So 2 billion are there that can be directed to citizens' salaries, to the salaries of people who have the lowest income in this country, which are minimum wages, salaries between 4000 and 5000 kuna, 6000 kuna. So that's what this is about. It's not too late, it's too late for you, why, because the ruling 2 billion kunas spent on raising their salaries to the richest and they could pay the people who are here today and here in the House, cleaning women, guards, security guards, who work here for small wages. No, no, you've raised your wages, you've raised your wages, you've raised the salaries of the 15,000 richest and you claim that in Croatia there's a cheap workforce, it's claimed by the Prime Minister, and that the increase in pensions of $69 is a lot, and that out of $3,000 you can live with dignity. Well, aren't you uncomfortable? Are you feeling all right, colleague Curai? You're advocating further reduction of VAT on meat. What meat? Infected meat from Poland? The Croatian farmers will not profit from it or profit from it but from foreign trade chains and our pensioners will eat infected meat from Poland and you will help them with the trade chains to make extra profit on that infected meat from Poland, so how are you not ashamed? I'm asking you how you didn't do it, so where's your cheek? This is where Mr. Secretary of State was sent, not guilty because a good minister with Jolly had better things to do and then they gave Mr. Zdravko Ronka the paper on the remote, that flyer and the errand boy, what should be written and what needs to be said. How do you explain that? A defector, a errand boy, a flyer, a traitor to his constituents, one word a coin, that's what this is about, the HDZ wrote him on the remote. And finally, I call on you to support the bill's proposal, to allow the minimum wages to grow in Croatia, that since next month all wages in Croatia will grow at least between 330 and 500 kuna, so why is it so difficult for you? So why does it hurt so much? What's the problem, and why can't people hear this? So they'll hear because we'll repeat, we'll repeat because this debate was pushed deep into the night because you usurped institutions, usurped institutions, and you pushed a debate on wage increases into the night, you pushed a debate on citizens' living standards, a debate on pensions at night, a debate on better health care. And during the day the only thing that dominates is your affairs for the simple reason you usurped all the institutions in the country. The intelligence community is dealing with internal accounts instead of protecting our citizens to be safe. State's attorney, where did the state's attorney go? In an affair of millions of kunas, hundreds of millions of kunas. The state's attorney handles correspondence. What are we talking about? Where'd he go? Crime, corruption, nepotism flourish, affairs are hundreds of millions of kuna, hundreds of millions of euros. Where's the Borg affair? He hasn't even questioned anyone. That's what this is about. Therefore, gentlemen of the HDZ who are not present because this is of no importance to you, clearly as you do not care for any debate when the standard of citizens rises, I call for a crumb of humanity of the crumbs of dignity, a crumb of concern for another, a crumb of empathy within you to work and to support a proposal that will allow for 700,000 people to raise that church by 330 to 500 kuna if you have any empathy, if you have responsibilities, if you have humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141511	I thank my colleague Bernardic, we have a replica, dear colleague Curaj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141512	I thank you, given that there have also been room-oriented exposures to me, so first and foremost, math is not clear to me, if 15 000 people have been paid more, how is that 2 billion less income? If we share that, which means these people had, how many hundreds of thousands of kunas a month, a year, all that. And as for, yes, okay, you don't want cheaper food, I want, I want the VAT to be even lower, I want that 6000 is not a minimum wage, unfortunately it's slightly less than the average salary, it's a minimum of 3 to 4000 kuna, and it's even less, with these we can't help, maybe with VAT on food, but we can't make it harder for them, it's all mine, and I've been all along supporting your proposal, I agree, but we're going to do it through all three laws and I want to, and we're going to appeal to our partners, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141513	Thank you. Answer, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141514	Here's a thank you very much for your support then, be it good to support our bill proposals, and as far as math is concerned, I'll explain it to you. So 2 billion kuna is the sum of salary increases for the rich, so Maric's measure for the rich, what made it possible for the fat geese of the neck to still spread plus a reduction in VAT to infected meat from Poland. So these two measures, which means Maric's benefit to the wealthy, to Jolly and such plus a reduction in VAT on infected meat from Poland, cost 2 billion and that's 2 billion. So these are two measures cumulatively. So we've proposed a whole package of laws, so we've released three legislative proposals together because of that, two are in the process, one is brought to the budget, and we're going to insist on this, and I'm glad if there's a goodwill and on your part to support it and that people finally see a little light in Croatia at the end of the long tunnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141515	I thank my colleague Bernardic for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. Thanks to the proposing representatives for the reasons of the bill, I would also like to thank the Government's representative for State Secretary Zrinasic's reasons for the government's opinion, we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. With this we have exhausted all the points of the agenda scheduled for today, we continue tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. with the agenda report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2018. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 21.26 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141516	Proposal for a Law amending the Income Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. number 446. He's reporting for his colleague Bernardic's word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141517	Dear President of the Assembly, we are looking for a break to appeal to all MPs once again to support our plan to raise salaries in Croatia. In Croatia, the situation is such that half of all workers and workers work for salaries that are less than 5,400 kuna net. 200,000 people in our country are receiving income less than 3,000 kuna. At the same time, millions of people live on the edge of poverty or poverty. This amendment of the law would allow tax deductions to be raised from 3,800 to 5,000 kuna, which would initially raise salaries for more than 700 000 employees in Croatia between 330 and 500 kuna. And you can't tell me that we don't have the money for that because if your ministers ride with expensive Mercedes, then I guess our teachers deserve 330 kunas more pay. If your MPs ride expensive BMWs, they get 60,000 kuna watches, so I guess we can get young people, interns to get 330 kuna more per month. If your ministers have millions of villas, they have big squares, they don't know where they got their property, so let's let our nurses, our healthcare professionals, get their salaries up between 330 and 500 kuna. And that's what this is about, not that there's no money, because if you could raise the salary for the 15,000 richest states, if you could write off the debt to the rich, if you could basically take the poor to give the rich to take care of and take care of the richest, then you can raise wages to workers and workers with the lowest wages in Croatia for the next week between 330 and 500 kuna. And I appeal to common sense and to humanity, to a little human dignity with you, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-05-07-0.u141518	Thank you, colleague Bernardic, thank you very much. Stanka approves, is anyone else answering? If not, we'll continue at 7:00 sharp. It's 6:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 19.02 HOURS]] Therefore, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: No proposal for a Law amending the Income Tax Act is adopted, please vote. I find that the conclusion, most of the votes of 70 ZA, 5 abstentions and 39 against, is that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
