ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178465	Good afternoon, everyone. We have a proposal first. The Committee on Legislatives has proposed the basis of Article 247. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct a united debate, unifying the discussion of the following 4 points: - Final proposal of the Air Protection Act, - Final proposal of the Law on Climate Change and Ozone Protection, as you can see these are all identical laws, - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) No 517/2014. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 842/2006, in an emergency procedure and - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2015/757 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, the reporting of them and their verification and the amendment of Directive 2009/16/EC, you remember that is the one that preceded the EU also in the urgent process, first and second reading. Do you agree with this proposal? Does anyone mind? There isn't. Since there are no objections to these laws, we will conduct a united debate. Now the word is Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178466	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the MOST Club, I would like to request a break on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, we must note on the proposal Croatia not to declare an exclusive economic belt. MOST has proposed, you did not support again in the procedure, Croatia loses between EUR 170m and EUR 270m and simply because of this here from 2000 until today means Croatia has lost more than EUR 28 billion. It is a catastrophic fact that Croatia has no power to protect 24,000 km2 of our territory of the Croatian sea. We do not have the strength, we do not have the strength to protect our fisherman, we see that the Italian fishermen are fishing out our fish, illegally entering and still mocking the Croatian coast guard, with the Croatian army, with the Croatian police. But apparently Andrej Plenkovic is much more important in relations with Tajani because when the Tajani line him up, the fascist Tajani who owns the sea, our Dalmatia and Istria then Andrej Plenkovic is calm with Tajani, as the most peaceful dog. It is time for the Croatian state to protect our territory by declaring an exclusive economic belt. I said it was in the procedure, and you didn't support it. MOST has given Croatia a second chance to protect its territory. I don't see any reason why you won't do it. I am 200, and yet the European Commission is asking us to declare it. We have it by law by the international sea, we have it by the UN Conventions. Why do you not want gentlemen to declare an exclusive economic belt? Why do you not want to protect Croatian fishermen? Why do you not want to protect Croatian territory? What are you making fun of? with Croatian territory? [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178467	The natural thing that I'm going to give you is that I'm going to give you a break, but before the break I'm just going to announce, it's procedureally going to be such a point that it's going to follow and then I'm going to give it a break. So the first point will be: - Final proposal of the Coast Guard Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 755 Would you like later than I read or sooner? I'll do it later. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 concerning Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee, and the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and we will stop there and we will give our words to Mr Bacic, who also asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also looking for a break in order to further highlight the need for the adoption of the Coast Guard Act, which would help with the law, to enable the central state authorities of the Republic of Croatia in the first order of the Coast Guard to strengthen the position of the Coast Guard in cooperation with other central state bodies that are coordinating for the control of the Adriatic Sea. Also, I use the opportunity to say a few words about the fact and the allegations mentioned by my colleague Bulj. Therefore, in the part of the protection of the Adriatic Sea belonging to the Republic of Croatia either through the territorial sea, whether through a protected ecological fishing band, the protected ecological fishing band has all the components of the economic belt when it comes to the protection of the fishing fund in that part of the Adriatic that is sovereign or part of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, nothing regarding the position of Croatian fishermen by declaring an exclusive economic belt to improve compared to the declaration of a protected eco-fishing belt. The entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia and an economic belt that was not declared but rather its performance, the protected ecological and fisheries belt becomes a common EU sea, and the EU's common fisheries policy was called the ZERP, or it was called the Economic Belt. Therefore, no 170 or 200 or 300 or 400 million kuna, the euro, I don't already know what the figure is, would not lose Croatian fishermen and the Republic of Croatia by not being declared an exclusive economic belt but a protected eco-fishing belt. And therefore, this law is very good to allow the fishing inspection and the Coast Guard to better monitor both the territorial sea and the protected eco-fishing belt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178469	Thank you very much. Mr. Grumoja requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, although I only heard a proposal for consultation, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178470	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Bačić, injured Article 238 is false. So there are significant differences between the ZERP and the exclusive ecological belt, and the European Commission study has shown that these figures that a colleague Bulj presented here on an annual basis of 170 to 270 million euros that we are losing are absolutely accurate. Besides, why other countries declare an exclusive economic belt, and you colleagues don't have the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178471	Thank you very much. I can't appreciate that. It's a debate. You've been having an argument with Mr. Bačić. You looking for something, Mr. Bull? What were you looking for? ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178472	Thank you very much. I would only say that Article 238, a colleague of Bacic, was injured according to the European Commission's 2013 analysis. Croatia lost its annual... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178473	The break is till 9.50, thank you very much. No, I don't. Thank you very much. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Secretary of State Tomislav Ivić is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178475	... In front of you is the Final Proposal for the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia in the second reading. [[Specially enabled.]] Following the adoption of the Strategy of the National Security Act on the Homeland Security System, which formally and formally established the system, and after 12 years of the application of the Coast Guard Act, the need for the adoption of a new law with the intention of further developing the Coast Guard has been established. The Croatian Army, with a basic mission to protect sovereignty and territorial integrity, defence of the Republic of Croatia and allies, mission to participate in crisis response operations abroad, participation in measures to build security and trust provides support to civil institutions in protecting the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea. The use of the capabilities of the Croatian military in supporting civil institutions and the action of synergy with other bodies is confirmed as a necessary high value and socially desirable task and as one of the rational and effective forms of use of state resources. The sea, seabed and seabed are particularly important for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, so attention is focused on sustainable management, the protection of wealth found in the maritime areas over which the Republic of Croatia has sovereignty, sovereign rights and jurisdiction. The Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia is organisationally relying on the available capabilities of the Croatian Navy. This mainly refers to the usability of the human potential of training capacities and full logistics support for the implementation of all activities. The primary tasks of the Coast Guard, surveillance and protection of sovereign rights and interests and the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in the protected ecological and fishing zone and the open sea, and in the territorial sea and inland sea waters, the Coast Guard shall provide support to our national authorities in the control and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea. The aim of this law is to define coast guard affairs and powers of authorised persons, regulate all issues related to the functioning of the Coast Guard. The proposed law regulates the management of sea fisheries control, navigation safety control, marine environmental protection, the protection of natural and cultural heritage. The law lays down the powers of the authorised persons of the Coast Guard, which are classed according to the applicable law by category. Conditions shall be laid down for the granting of powers to authorised coast guard persons to carry out sea inspections in certain administrative areas and will contribute to strengthening the safety and protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea. The proposed law also recognises the role of central coordination, its expert body and regional units as the authorities responsible for coordinating the work in the surveillance and protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea as a measure of improving the state of security and the protection of maritime space, in accordance with the tasks of the home security system. Compared to the first reading, the differences are nomotechnical, accepted by the Committee on Legislatives and the proposal by Agent Ante Sanader was accepted that in central coordination, the professional body and the regional units of coordination, the Croatian Fire Department, which is part of the Homeland Security System, is recognised as well as accepted. Finally, the proposed law represents a further improvement in the construction of the home security system and the operation of coast guard operations, as well as strengthening the coordination of the work of competent national authorities at sea. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia as they are secured in the division of the Ministry of Defence. The proposer and I will highlight the adoption of amendments to the Committee on Legislatives which are of nomotechnical nature. I hope you will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178476	Thank you, too. You have four replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178477	Thank you very much. I'll do it again and say what I said at the stop. According to the European Commission's analysis, the esteemed secretaries 2030. Croatia lost 170m to 270m kuna annually because of its failure to declare an exclusively economic belt. I would also point out, since you say, the patriotic coalition that HDZ conducted three, four years ago, was then saying that they would. ...that they will declare the program an exclusive economic belt. Why isn't the exclusive economic belt declared? Why isn't our right to be used? What makes this farce and the fog that you're playing here about protection and the coast guard that should do their job and protect what needs to be protected, protecting our fisherman, our submarine? However, you have a hybrid that has been ripped off on entering the EU, a hybrid called eco-fishing Belt. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178478	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178479	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Bull. Just like in the first reading of this law, you're telling a story that basically has nothing to do with this law but is not the subject of this law. The subject of this law is the functioning of the Coast Guard and the provisions that will contribute to making the Coast Guard more effective. Everything about the exclusive economic belt and the ZERP you have a nice explanation for. But you don't accept any arguments at all, you tell your story, it's also your right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178480	You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you are, Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178481	Thank you very much. So he's hurt. In 238, I repeat, IGP and ZERP are completely different. You don't have the strength to declare an IGP that has been declared by other countries. You had to betray the national interests, you had to arrest all the generals, you had to, you didn't have the strength to declare the IGP to court Carly Del Ponte and the European officials. to the damage to the Croatian sea [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] And a fisherman. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178482	Thank you very much. Since I've said before that I don't respect the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and since it's not the subject of the debate, the subject of this law, and it's your right to say so, but it's no violation on the part of the Secretary of State or anyone else, you have a warning first. Let's move on. Mr. Thunderbolt, please. Yes, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178483	Thank you, Vice President. It's not true that what my colleague Bulj is talking about is not the subject of this law, it's the subject of this law. So how are we going to protect our territorial waters, but also this ZERP or IGP that we consider necessary to declare. It's quite a part of this law and this problem. That maybe you don't want to talk about it or that the secretary of state doesn't want to talk about IGP being declared is not our problem. We have twice in this session referred to the procedure and voted on the IGP's declaration. And you voted against it. They voted even, here's counterpart Kirin, who's ex-legal, the rights advocated the announcement of the economic belt, he voted against it in this assembly. And that's not our problem, that's your problem. You'd like us to talk about it. We will talk because Croatian citizens chose us to talk about money that which the Croatian is losing. [[/Intruder Radin: Thank you, time. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178484	Thank you. So we can understand each other, Mr. Bolt. Me and you, even though we understand each other very well. You have the right to talk as much as you want, but not to put a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it's your opinion, so you, you have the right to express your opinion, to see that you don't even listen to me because you know it yourself. So this one, I'll always give you the opportunity to replicate or talk about it because it's your right, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that's why Mr. Bulj got a warning. Would you like to answer? No, I don't. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178485	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Two questions. The topic we opened in the first reading itself, which is the main Coast Guard ship, we know that there was a problem with the Split smuggling and the delivery of the ships themselves, and I'm curious about whether the second issue has moved here and in advance congratulations on the Black Hawk procurement process, as far as the Black Hawks themselves are concerned, we know that the Coast Guard is taking a lot of part in protecting and saving, and I'm curious whether these helicopters that are more functionally used and in the Coast Guard system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178486	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178487	And at the first reading, I said the key to the coastal patrol ship. The first was delivered, if so, the ship, all the necessary tests were carried out, the ship was satisfied by all the criteria, it is an excellent ship that will very much contribute that the Croatian Coast Guard can successfully carry out its work. And here's the other day on the Parliament's Defence Committee was the debate, that is, asking for the opinion of the Defence Committee on the procurement of new Black Hawk helicopters, and they will, of course, arrive in Croatia, and they will certainly be used as a support to the Croatian Coast Guard for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178488	Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, firstly to clarify that the Republic of Croatia does not lose a single lip because it has been declared ZERP and not an economic belt are all the components of the economic belt in the section relating to the management and protection of the fish fund contained in the ZERP. But it's on the side. Where can Croatia lose? In the ZERP or in the economic belt, it was declared, if it does not effectively oversee its part of the Adriatic, it was territorial sea, much less possibly lost, or the ZERP in that section relating to the control of the fishing of Croatian fish or, above all, from Italian carts. In order to prevent that, I support, I welcome that 70 million kuna for the construction of the fleet has been provided in the budget this year or in the budget for the following year. who will watch over the Coast Guard [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] That part of the Adriatic, and I welcome it. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178490	Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178491	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Bacic. I agree with what you said, and in the debate in the first reading you very clearly explained the entire procedure for the adoption of ZERP and the difference between ZERP and IGP and then you made it very good and you argued and I agree that Croatia does not suffer any harm from the declaration of ZERP and in this sense in which you speak, I agree that this law is only a contribution that Croatia can monitor what it needs, right, at sea. In this sense, it is very important and significant and the purchase of coastal patrol ships, one is delivered, in the following year we have secured 70 million kunas to arrange for the construction of another number, a total of 5 ships for the coast guard, which will have all the capacity to protect our interests at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178492	Thank you. Mr. Sagar, the last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178493	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, that is exactly what my question is, you have now said that the funds are being prepared for another ship, so according to what I found, Novigrad, Solta, Cavtat, Croatia Kostanica, these are all citizens in the Queen, last year, exactly one year ago, the Omis was actually pushed down, 10 million euros was the starting price. I don't know, the newspaper, we can see in the media that this price grew, but what we can see from the media was that there were a lot of difficulties from designing to building the whole ship. If you are expecting such difficulties for these next 5 ships, and then the whole process will become unnecessary for a long time, and other than the protection of the Croatian sea in terms of economic interest, it should always be stressed and we are a NATO member, that this increase in the defence capacity of the Republic of Croatia can generate economic growth, can generate in this case Croatian shipbuilding and what you can do as a resolute ministry that this delay and these problems... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178494	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178495	This is the first ship to be delivered to the Croatian Navy, that is, the Coast Guard is a prototype and it is perfectly normal and logical to have problems in the construction of such ships. There were others in the construction of this prototype ship. But we expect, of course, that on the next in the series, right, ships for Croatian coast guard needs, these problems are overcome through the construction of prototypes, there is, of course, a great experience and that these problems will of course be much smaller than they were when they were built prototypes. Of course, the production of such ships in the home shipyard is and one would say quite an incentive for the development of the Croatian economy, and I think it is almost as important throughout the story as the function of these ships will be used, right, to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178496	Does the rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I'm opening a debate, Mr. Ante Bacic is first in line in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178497	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Coast Guard Act is before us. In our first reading, we have been through some issues, we have opened some discussions, and I am glad to see it in this very proposal for a final bill and some amendments that have been accepted by the Ministry of Defence itself, by our colleagues who have normally improved the text of the final bill itself. It is important to stress that the consultation itself related to this law took part with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Sea and the Ministry of Agriculture as interested parties, but also those who have certain responsibilities are also concerned with the affairs of the Coast Guard. The Secretary of State here has warned us that this law, i.e. The amendments and additions are made after 12 years and at the right time and after the adoption of the National Security Strategy itself, but the Law on the Homeland Security System itself has simply come up with a certain need to align the functioning of the entire system and to normally balance the observed shortcomings of the previous law from 12 years ago. It should highlight some of the things behind this final bill, which is the sole objective of the law, defining the task and regulation of all Coast Guard operations as well as the powers of authorised persons and the primary task of the Coast Guard, which is the supervision and protection of sovereign rights and interests, as well as the implementation and jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia in the protected ecological and fishing zone and the open sea, and in the territorial sea and inland sea waters, the Coast Guard provides support to civil structures that supervise and certain inspections primarily to highlight the maritime police. As regards the draft laws and arrangements of certain practices, they are also concerned with the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia at sea and concern the control of marine fisheries, surveillance of the safety of navigation, protection of the marine environment and the protection of natural and cultural heritage. In the final proposal of the law, i.e. in his explanation, unlike the first reading, there are certain supplements here and I think it is very good that we received in the final proposal of the law, which is seen in the materials themselves, and that is the statistics of the number of inspections and activities from certain areas carried out by the Coast Guard in 2018, I think there were some 800-th of the activities and actions that follow up on foreign military ships, which are inspections, which are fish, yachts, flag checks and other. As far as the Coast Guard itself is concerned, it is important to stress that the entire coast guard management system itself is functioning using the available capabilities of the Croatian Navy as regards the people themselves normally throughout logistics and in art. The 5th final proposal of the law itself has been laid down by the powers of the Coast Guard, which have been graded by categories and the newspapers are also highlighted, setting out the conditions for the authorisation of authorised persons of the Coast Guard to carry out inspection tasks in certain administrative areas. As far as the law in question is concerned, it definitely represents an improvement of the home security system and the strengthening of cooperation and coordination of competent national authorities at sea. The Secretary of State stressed the missions and tasks of the Croatian Army, which is the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity and defence of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the mission of participating normally in operations abroad, participation in measures to build security and trust, all of those activities we see and we need to normally participate with our partners from the NATO alliance, we see and there were yesterday and 70th anniversary of the NATO Alliance in London, where both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Defence and Normal and only the promotion of both coastal ships and all of these equipment that we obtain will be in function not only of the Republic, will normally be used in NATO's activities. It should be noted that a lot of coast guard activities are carried out in search, rescue on land and sea, medical transport as well as other situations and threats that may occur at sea. That is why the Croatian military itself is developing certain specific specialised capabilities, precisely to support civil structures in major disasters, and its territorial schedule, organisation, combat and non-combating compositions will develop its capacity to integrate other Croatian military members, as well as allied forces in maritime operations. It is important to highlight what came from the first reading, which was highlighted, and this is what the Croatian Navy has just formed and more marine infantry in the Plots as a core for the development of the ability to fight in the coastal area. I think it is also a key part, which we have debated through the strategy itself and a series of laws related to defence, which is the development of the Croatian Army, as well as the Croatian Navy through a new study of military maritime in Split, but also the transformation of the higher military university to the university, because I think here in the first generations of our cadets that are being trained in Split at the Faculty of Marines, as part of the Navy, we have the first and new generations of officers, sea officers who will be used to develop the Croatian Navy, especially in this section of the Coast Guard. We have also heard through the replicas of the Secretary of State regarding coast guard equipment and the purchase of patrol ships, it goes at its own pace, when they are all in operation and in the Adriatic Sea it will be a completely different picture of the coast guard, but also by obtaining new Black Hawk helicopters, U.S. multi-purpose helicopters that will definitely be used to rescue and for certain threats that the coast guard is involved in. I think there is also cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, and next year there will be two fast boats of dual purpose that will be given the same coastal training. Special attention shall also be paid to the control systems for the underwater situation and to the removal of underwater threats and to the safety of maritime navigation and port access as well as to the sea and seabed as an important segment of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. This is definitely a strategic move, because the sea, sea and seabed are particularly important for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, which is why the Ministry of Defence's attention, especially the Croatian Navy and coastal internships, is aimed at sustainable management and protection of wealth located in the maritime area over which the Republic of Croatia has sovereignty and jurisdiction. It is quite important and excellent that, between the two readings in this final draft of the law, a relationship has been developed regarding the central coordination for the supervision and protection of the rights of interest of the Republic of Croatia at sea, its expert body and the area unit, and a representative has been introduced in these bodies and it has been determined that the Croatian Firearms Community has introduced its representative, which is extremely important because it is the fires and certain accidents that the Croatian Navy is working with, but also our Croatian firefighters, I think it is logical that they are in all these central coordinations and professional bodies. From all the above, the HDZ Club proposes that we adopt such a final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178498	Now it is up to Mr. Miro Bulj, who is to make a point on this law of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178499	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members and colleagues, distinguished secretaries with their associates before us is a law that is very important, which had members of the Croatian Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with this final proposal, and we have also spoken in the first proposal that this is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. We have spoken since all members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Air Force, the Croatian Navy, the Croatian Land Army is going first only, and only the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, therefore we will give it immediately in the name and means this and the amendment to be called the Croatian Coast Guard because I see no reason if this Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia so reads to be one, in the composition of the Navy one part in essence to be called as they are called and armed forces. We're going to give that amendment, but this is very important because it doesn't destroy the concept of term in the armed forces, but the fact is that here all the time it's been said, here in replicas and in the apartment that it's not being discussed here and that it's not a topic, even the chairman warned us that there's no issue of monitoring and protecting the protected ecological fishing belt or economic belt that's not true. Article 1(1), Article 5(1), supervision and protection of the ecological fishing band, therefore it is a function in the role of the law, in fact the law would be meaningless. In my view, the saddest thing is that this assembly, this government has not accepted the MOST proposal that has already gone into the procedure once, which is to declare full application exclusively of the economic belt, which is, according to the European Commission's 2013 analysis. Croatia lost between 170m and 270m euros annually because of its failure to declare an exclusive economic belt, so if we consider that 200m euros is a year's loss, this means the annual fallout from 2000 to today is around 28 billion kuna. I therefore believe that this law is serious, and first of all to the Coast Guard, we know that the Coast Guard was not functional, it had no material technical means to protect our areas, our territorial sea and so on. ZERP, if it had been announced, five ships had already been built, but so far only one coast guard ship has been built, which means that the armed forces are not yet essentially materially technically equipped with neither the resources, and we see the behaviour of Italian fishermen in the matter of fishing, illegal entry into our areas. We need to know that our fishermen there are not equal with Italian fishermen to enter our area, to fish out fish, to work ecocids and flora and to destroy fauna, and especially fish funds. And we see that even when they get caught, they're very rarely caught, even the middle finger is provided by Italian fishermen to our coast guard or our police who see them illegally hunting. But we need to know where their fishing fleets pass the grass doesn't grow, they literally defend our submarine, destroy everything that can be destroyed, and it's great damage and I'm sorry that the Republic of Croatia i.e. This Parliament had no choice but to declare an exclusive economic belt, as a colleague of the Grmoi said. The HSP also proposed this once before and during its negotiations with the EU, and then the EU negotiations doubted itself and had no power to declare it. Then they stayed lonely, it's Mr. Tonchi... if we can remember the most pushed and I'm sorry what here's colleague Grumoja mentioned to Parliament's representative Kirin who as an old lawman didn't support it and this time, I'm really sorry. And also you fellow MPs from Priobalj, MOST has even asked that we do not support the declaration by all the Adriatic county parliaments to support it in a declaration and to support the county councils to support the mayor of this proposal for a declaration exclusively of the economic belt, which is being called upon by the European Commission, the European Commission and the UN Declaration of '82. where we, as heirs of the former state, are also signatories of this Declaration on the declaration of the exclusive economic belt and the protection of our sea, i.e. exclusively the economic belt and, of course, within our sea, however, we absolutely don't. The resources of the sea are important to us and because of the ecological threat of pollution, we know that we do not have simple control of the ballast waters of numerous ships, oil washing, so that large stains that are larger than Split have appeared on the Adriatic, we have stains and only because of the currents that we have no one controlling these washing tanks. That's why we're getting lucky because of the currents that don't come to our shores, there's going to be an ecological disaster because whatever anyone wants to do in the Adriatic Sea area, and in particular what 24,000 square miles does not declare an exclusive economic belt. I'm going to talk about this, and I'm going to talk about this mostly because when we get tired here we see when HDZ was in the patriotic coalition ever since they said that the declaration is an exclusive economic belt, i.e. they even signed it, a belt of interest for Croatia and how it is their duty and obligation to do so. For reasons unknown today, however, it is not to be done. I don't see any reason ladies and gentlemen, which is why we don't have the strength to declare an exclusive economic belt if other states have declared it. Then why did the other states declare him? ZERP is essentially part of an exclusive economic belt, parts. We must do everything to ensure that Croatian fishermen are equal to the fishermen of other countries, the exclusive economic belt that was not at that time before EU accession during Sanader and all other Ivo Sanader prime ministers were not allowed to be declared due to the addition of European officials Carly del Ponte when it was located, arrested, transferred by Croatian generals, then there was no strength because they always threatened to arrest more generals, and of course that our officers would send to them as many of our defenders, so there was a huge pressure even though then the tribal hit the table with a fist and declare an exclusive economic belt. And today, rather than being told to Croatian citizens by Branko Bačić at the time about the fact that he was not declared an exclusive economic belt, which had to be interpreted as being essentially incorporated into Seks's policy of location, arrest, transfer and processing, the respected secretary, that this policy, which was publicly declared, was not dared to declare an exclusive economic belt, today we have huge problems, our fishermen. We have the ecocid and the disappearance of flora and fauna, and mostly the fish fund in the Adriatic Sea, we are threatened by ecological disasters that we have neither ships nor techniques in the event of an ecological disaster to resuscitate it. We have a number somewhere, it seems to me in Italy and we have a few smaller ships, but not enough absolutely that is not enough and what is very problematic is when I talk about this coast guard problem then we are talking about the problem of what is first of all our right to international law, the second thing that of tourism is, the sea is very important, of tourism is 20% of GDP, which is huge. So our key question is that this coast guard works, to be functional. And I'm not saying that this law, which I would like to apply, doesn't move things for the better, but it's very important that 5 ships that were promised, long ago that they would have our watch to be functional at all, the Croatian Coast Guard, that it would be functional at all, we seem to be only one ship for now, four are still in the contract, but it seems to me that this should have been done long ago, for reasons I won't enter but from day to day we lose, as it is said, we have lost no declaration of exclusive economic belt, meaning 240 to 270, from 170 to 270 million euros, which means one Pelesian Bridge a year and you can see it all, so that's an analysis of the European Commission from 2013. Here we need to know that the non-proclaiming of an exclusive economic belt is also political, meaning political relations between Tajani and the European People's Party, Tajani and our Prime Minister, who is his great friend and Tajani is a fascist who owns our parts of the sea, our Dalmatia, the islands, Istria and of course there is no power to declare an exclusive economic belt because I simply don't see any other reason besides this political relationship between the prime minister, our prime minister, i.e. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and relations with Tajani. I don't see any other reason why you don't declare yourself an exclusive economic belt. We will insist on declaring the exclusive economic belt that we have already given and discussed and did not support it, regardless of what HDZ said, signed and wrote that it is normal and that it should and that it is in the protection of national interests, which is why it did not support the exclusive economic belt. I believe that what we're going to do as soon as possible, which is why we've given it back in procedure, so again, it means declaring an exclusive economic belt, again the government gives a negative opinion, but I think parliamentary representatives are folk representatives, I'm sorry that on this topic, we're gone, we're no longer involved, but this is a very important topic. We have meaning the Croatian Coast Guard which is not technically equipped yet, the law defines certain things that go forward, even mentioned by the Croatian Fire Department which last night's proposal of the law on speed in the final reading is essentially shut down, is no longer an association of citizens, last night's law, was discussed here yesterday, the Fire Department, at a speed where 700 objections to the law in the public debate that was shortened. Therefore, we currently have a phase that will be extinguished in this way by the Croatian Fire Department and you accept the proposal from Ante Sanader which Sanader made this law probably with 5.6 people in... Because 700 people objected to the most firemen, fire communities, fire companies, voluntary, public fire departments, and that's what the law has been fortified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we last night and demanded that the law be withdrawn although firefighters should, of course, be involved in this whole story because of the possibility of calvary, many that could happen on the Adriatic Sea. I once again said about this amendment, this law is written in essence, it described these articles as everything that should be, but in reality and reality it is not. This is a dead letter on paper. I expect more will be kept to the Croatian Coast Guard in reality and reality. So we currently have a technically unarmed coast guard and I expect that an exclusive economic belt will be declared and that these 270m euros a year will be used by the Croatian state at the best possible, this is one Peljeski bridge I repeat, and that we parliamentary representatives will say no to the policy of crawling towards European officials, even if this is about the Prime Minister's friend Tajani, the fascist Tajani. Here's the amendment I hope you'll accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178500	It's in front of Mrs. GLASs's counseling club. Hope Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It seems somehow that this has become a common practice despite the fact that this Croatian Parliament has adopted its Rules of Procedure to use the laws and proposals of the law to usually come out of the subject spoken of by law, so of course man no longer knows whether to warn the President and President of the Parliament that if anything else warns speakers to try to keep the topic which is and the topic today is the Final Proposal of the Coast Guard Act, it means another reading. And it's said, we can say as an opposition about a subject that may not essentially change anything but it's actually going to try to organize a little bit of money to talk about having a coast guard and basically no one should be against it. So there are no major disputes within the bill. But as this usually happens with us, the laws are one thing, the intentions are one thing, the goals are one and the possibilities of implementation, the quality implementation of this law are something else, not to say third, not to say 100th. So what I'm only really going to warn here, the law as a law and suggestions within it, I'd say generally acceptable. But how we're going to do it. So the fact that in 2014 at least according to the sources that we have agreed to build, means what we're going to work with, how we're going to work, how we're going to implement the laws, that's what we'd like to warn about. So wonderful and wonderful how we're going to function within the system in organizational, excellent, this law you've arranged, improved let's say. However, with which we will work, how we will work, in 2014, we have contracted five ships of which only one was delivered. It was supposed to be about $400 million worth of funds for these ships, whether that is the case or whether it stands in the meantime for the right answers. Only one ship was delivered. The job of the Coast Guard is actually now being carried out by the ship that has been delivered and four patrol ships and two school ships that are the legacy of the Yugoslav People's Army. I ask, what we were doing in the meantime, we were getting combat planes, I know it didn't work out, it was, of course, billions for used planes, and it was very useful here and our economy, our shipyards, at least that was how it was announced to build ships worth about half a billion kuna, given that what kind of resource it is and I mean, my own opinion and my club's opinion, and I believe most of the representatives in the Croatian Assembly that the sea and coast might be the largest resource, the natural resource that the Republic has. And unfortunately, by our lack of action, there are some colleagues who are right to speak beyond the subject, by insufficient action or by insufficient investment in equipment, we may question whether sovereignty, but not only sovereignty but also the protection of the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia here is adequate, whether it is adequately protected. I think that's what we're slow, we're sloppy, and this is the kind of law we play towards the public in order to get the impression that we're worried about, that we're doing something about it, and in reality we don't have the quality of equipment that we're going to do this job with this law that needs to be done by the Coast Guard in order to do it quality. So the law as a law should be supported and we do not see the controversy of the provisions of this law, however, we see the problem in that the Ministry of Defence insists that, in essence, the really coast guard is adequately equipped for a job that should be carried out in the interest and economy, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, of course, by protecting the border at sea and then all other interests, as I have said and the economic and citizens in general the Republic of Croatia. The sea as such is not only a blessing, they do not have all the countries globally looking at the world's access to the sea. However, the sea as such is both a huge commitment and a huge responsibility, not only in this part of which concerns the protection of borders and economic interests but also the protection of the environment. And already in our first reading, we were pleased that this bill also highlighted the collaboration with the scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia that care about environmental protection and above all about the protection of the sea, above all the cleanness of the sea and all the flora and fauna that lies in the sea, the natural treasures that lie in the Adriatic Sea. So we have a very good perspective of working to adequately protect this, to prevent any kind of threat that would go in this direction to pollute the Adriatic Sea, and now this is particularly important to us, given that at this point, the Republic of Croatia has a good economic dependence on tourism, means any situation in which the Adriatic Sea would be threatened in terms of greater pollution would directly have disastrous consequences for tourism in Croatia and, of course, for the economy of the Republic of Croatia. That's why all these efforts that are here within this law are proposed, to better function the Coast Guard and just protect all these interests, it's something that needs to be supported, but it should also insist on being implemented. And you can only spend it the way if you have what and the way if you have someone. It means education, investment in education, people who do this job and, of course, the construction of equipment, or the supply of equipment that is needed. Of course, the list of priorities, I have already said, means the Croatian sea, the Croatian part of the Adriatic is, perhaps one of the biggest resources, natural resources of the Republic of Croatia and if it is not at the top of the list of priorities for investing in the protection of the sea, then I don't know what should be. I understand that we have agreements with NATO and contracts with which we have to, through the foundations that we have to invest in other military equipment, but I think that just getting these ships and finally solving the issue of our Coast Guard's ability to guard this resource, to protect it somewhere on top, and I think that if it's half a billion kunas to purchase or build these ships in our shipyards, I guess that's not something that should make it difficult for another 5 or 10 years to realize, and in the meantime, for example, I don't know how many billions to get used planes in our shipyards, no matter where we get them. There. So the content of the law itself, I mean, we don't consider it controversial, so we'll back it up. However, we consider the disputed implementation of the commitments we have taken as a state towards territory, and in this case towards the sea, the Adriatic Sea, the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea, which is not adequately implemented by us, i.e. insufficiently invested in the realisation of these jobs. Here, thank you very much, and I hope we don't wait another five, six, or I don't know how many years for the Coast Guard to be completely teamed up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178502	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State asked for five minutes...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178503	Thank you very much. Vice President. [[Intruder Radin: In order to answer the question, probably.]] No, I'd like to thank you, this fellow Turin for a very correct debate and I'm glad you'll support the Coast Guard Act, but I do believe that, we need to explain this coastal, coastal patrol ship because a lot of debate comes down to whether we could do more, whether Croatia should have more coastal patrol ships than it has now. So far, we only have one, and it's not agreed to build five ships, but it's agreed to build the first ship or prototype of the ship. If the ship meets all tactical-technical requirements if so, characteristics, then you can also contract the construction of planned 5 ships. I said that the ship that was delivered after a lot of trouble in its construction satisfied all the tactical-technical characteristics that we sought through the contest and what was our task, and you said that the MORH wasn't leading enough attention around, these things, our task was to provide funds to continue the construction of ships in that fleet, right? Also in the MORH budget next year, i.e. in the state budget, 70 million kuna was provided for the construction of another ship from the series. I hope that the contract and construction of another ship will be completed very quickly and that the construction of another ship will begin in the Coast Guard fleet. And that we will get to that planned number, 5 ships as long as it takes, is so that Croatia could, or that the Coast Guard might do the job it exists. There's been a lot of trouble, and I wouldn't want to paralyze about it right now, and I wouldn't want to politicise about running the project itself. That, that it entered the construction of the ship without complete documentation, that it was not the main project for which the ship was to be built, but these are the things that happen very often with us. But in the end, it's significant and it's important, so that the first ship is delivered, that it will go into contract for the construction of the second ship and that, hopefully, soon and near future, we will have all five ships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178504	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178505	Thank you very much. Secretary, the sooner we build these ships, the sooner we need to include the Croatian mind, and we have it, so people will include, if this first ship is functional or with certain mistakes, I see no reason to move quickly and to protect these four ships and to finally protect our Coast Guards, which will control our waters, which will ensure the safety and protection of our territorial sea, of course we will declare the IGP and that we will all work together in the interest, the national interest of preserving our and territorial waters, and the IGP, because the Coast Guard is without ships, and we have the brains to make those 4 more ships in Croatia and thus round up that whole, the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178506	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178507	When it comes to coastal coastal coastal ship, I think the most important thing in the whole story is that it is working in a Croatian shipyard and that is what we should be happy about, to be glad that the production of this ship involves Croatian brains, that the Croatian industry, or the Croatian economy, is involved, and that the construction of these 5 ships will benefit not only the Croatian Navy but the entire Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178508	Let's move on with the clubs, Mr. Franco Vidovic will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178509	... Secretaries with associates. [[Specially enabled.]] So as my colleague said earlier from GLAS, so this law as a law will not spoil anything and nothing special will fix it, but we all swear that the sea is our most important resource and that the sea is what is important to all of Croatia. After all, to be honest, on land you have borders with individual countries and at sea you border practically with the whole world. So the sea is our contact with the world. Now, to not get me wrong, it's not just this ministry's problem and it's not just these authorities. I'll say something that might intrigue us all together, but that's it. We're building the wrong model. We've been building the wrong Coast Guard model all along. So in the world, there is no known model in which the Coast Guard is subdued to the Navy, in this case to the Croatian Navy. There's no such thing as a model. So, the Coast Guard for its purpose and for what we have signed all along and with the EU, it is the Coast Guard that protects the outside sea and which practically has police powers. On these ships, Coast Guards, which are generally public ships, not warships, so ships that work practically in and for the interest of the government, on these ships, and that's good, there are other public services in this law, so both customs and this and that, etc. And that's all right, however, but what appears to be a problem is that the Croatian Navy, in accordance with that, neither the Coast Guard as part of the Croatian Navy, can leave the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia without the permission of this Parliament. And on the other hand, other countries' experiences say that the Coast Guards are also working in an epicontinental belt, working outside practically territorial waters, so in international waters, if the need arises. We only limit ourselves to ZERP this way. Yeah, that's right, Mr. Bačić, you can nod your head all you want, read it. This is how we limit ourselves to ZERP and I think I say together, I don't transfer responsibility here to HDZ, you don't have to feel called. So since 2008 and I can understand, that was the situation that it was, we were in a hurry in the EU, we were in a hurry to meet certain criteria, we started with some model, but let's give people, let's all think together about whether it's absolutely right what we're doing. We are missing out on huge EU funds, so the secretary of state said that the Coast Guard's resources were secured within the defence ministry's budget. On the other hand, we are missing EU funds, we all know that the EU will not finance any military component but would finance a civilian component. You know well that the Italians have now acquired a Coast Guard ship with EU funds, you know that some other countries are doing the same. Italy that is far richer than us, Sweden that is richer than us. Romania, Bulgaria, Malta, Malta has acquired aircraft for the Coast Guard. So, we'll support this law, I say because it doesn't spoil anything, it's trying to edit what exists and okay, but on the other hand, I think we all really need to think well whether the Coast Guard should separate it from the HRM, whether the Coast Guard forms as a government office, a state office for the Coast Guard, because even the police can't put it under the MUP, and the police can't act outside the coastal sea or outside the sea. So there are a few problems, I say again, that's when it was done because that moment seemed like the best solution, but it's been 10 years since then. Let's turn around a little bit, let's unload at the end of the line, and let's strengthen the HRM with warships, warships aren't polygons for the game. So they are not polygons where all civil servants should walk as they wish. The war number is a warship and we all know it. So let's all think about it together, I say, it's not, I'm not burdening this government again, I'm not burdening you, and we've been wrong here, and our government, I think we all need to expand the horizon together, and we need to turn around to start funding the Coast Guard from EU funds as far as possible if civil service is possible, to finally unload the HRM and to develop the HRM stronger and tighter, as much as possible. After all, now and within the framework of the prime minister's NATO agreements in London, so that it goes to 2% of the country's actual budget, to go to 20% for modernisation, these funds can be found to strengthen HRM. I'm thinking no bigger problems. So, the law itself says, we're going to support him because he's trying to regulate this existing situation that is such, like this and like this, but on the other hand, I'm calling on the whole public, in the end, especially the people in the MORH, the MUP, the state services and the government to think about this second model. So, if we've all made a mistake together, we've made a mistake, but in the end, the size of a winner is that he knows how to admit his mistake when they see that it doesn't go on. This isn't going anywhere. It's not working. It won't solve anything. What I also want to point out to you, so when we brought that the Croatian Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia can also be called the Croatian Army, then we said that they would say it, at least I understood the minister, that it would be used in some documents, that it would be used in speech, and I have nothing against it, I have no problem with that. But the laws of the Republic of Croatia must comply with the Constitution. So we can't use the term then, at least I don't think we can, the Coast Guard is a body formed within the Croatian army responsible for the exercise of surveillance, the tralala. I think it would be more appropriate to use what is in accordance with the Constitution, and the Constitution only knows the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, in my view, regardless of our coloquial name, the Croatian Army, I often use it, too, to be clear, regardless of what the Constitution knows, are the OSRH. So I think it's nomotechnically supposed to be consistent. I'm not a lawyer, but what I know is a little bit about law, that's all. That's it. And what I also resent to you in part, the Coast Guard commander is an officer of the Croatian Navy appointed and resolved by the President of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Government. What officer? What rank? Who? So, is that a junior officer, a senior officer? That's some stuff, I say, it hasn't been solved before, and it's not even obvious now. Here. So it is my opinion that the opinion of us at the SDP Club that this law does not change anything important, that it is trying to regulate an existing situation which is now, that it will not spoil anything, but on the other hand, that the way we are developing the Coast Guard, that it is ultimately damaging both the Croatian Navy and the Coast Guard itself. And that we need to think carefully about whether we should continue on that path. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178510	Thank you, too. And now we're moving on to individual debates. The first individual debate has Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I intended to discuss the Coast Guard in a similar manner to my first reading debate, but Mr. Vidovic's debate encouraged me to change something, at least this opening part. So, Mr. Vidovic, you're wrong. Ships of the Coast Guard should not be asked about the consent of HS in order to supervise in a protected eco-fishing belt or economic belt. Moreover, until the countries of history strengthened their Coast Guard, they had neither declared an economic belt nor a protected ecological belt or an ecological belt, as which state decided to declare the IGP constituents. The countries declared the economic zone the moment when, with their resources, ships, aircraft, aircraft, helicopters, and most ships, they were able to effectively monitor the protected or economic belt, or in our case, a protected ecological fishing belt. For what? Because our economic belt is in an important half of the Adriatic. We did not use the possibility that the International Convention on Law must leave us to be able to declare the size of the sea belt with our own economic belt or ZERP for reasons that countries that can have an economic belt, and all states in the world that are coastal cannot also have an economic belt, as Slovenia can't say, and many countries are in a closed geographical environment so that they can't declare an economic belt, which Croatia can't, but neither can Croatia up to 200 miles from its own, from the border of its territorial sea, because 200 miles would practically come from that side of Italy. So it's from the west, on the west coast of Italy. Therefore, we could, in accordance with the International Convention on Law, declare our economic belt up to half of the Adriatic, and that border was established in 1965, but in 2006 we were still in line with the new methods of calculating coordinates and using satellite systems, and we signed a technical amendment with Italy where we defined the exact half of the Adriatic and to that half of the Adriatic and Coast Guard have the right, whenever they want, however, last year I think about 480 reconnaissances, control, control, ships, fishing, etc. in ZERP. There you can see, you would be right if it were a warship, however, there you see also in the law that the MORH, the Croatian Navy in agreement clearly declares a public ship. It's an emergency or you'd be right, but you wouldn't be right then. According to our Maritime Code and the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, a warship has the right to exit its territorial waters when it pursues persecution. and this persecution can be carried out not only in its economic belt but the persecution of a warship can also be carried out in international waters when the persecution has begun in its own territorial sea and this persecution can take place until the next territorial sea. He can't get into other people's territorial seas, but he can get into someone else's economic Belt, a ship of state that has committed persecution with a warship in its territorial waters. So it's not disputed, but then we wouldn't, which this law would serve us if we couldn't carry out effective surveillance on a public ship, it was that it was a ship of captains, whether it was a police vessel, whether it was A. Mohorovici, whether it was any ship on the Adriatic which we declared a public ship and which was part of the Coast Guard, whether it was a ship of the Ministry of Environmental Protection that serves to help with possible sea pollution, so it's not disputed. The other thing I wanted to say, Mr. Secretary of State, that's what I said last time, is that this law we end up normably legitimately that legislative basis of ours that we can perform effective surveillance first of all of the ZERP because for the territorial sea it's not a problem, it's 12 miles from the coast, it's not a problem, with existing ships, there's a Navy, there's any fishing inspection, there's either the police, there's an HRM. Now it is a challenge, the biggest challenge facing the Croatian state to control the protected ecological belt, above all in the fishing work, in the protection of the fishing fund. With our ships, we can hardly keep 24 000 km2 as much as the ZERP belt is, therefore, I have said this in the first reading and I repeat it now, it would be good to keep this investment intensity in the Coast Guard, be at least the same that one ship should build and give to use the Coast Guard and this ship that has the performance to keep protected, monitor, better say surveillance, protected environmental belt in view of, eco-fishing belt, given the fact that the cocases, boats, fishing vessels that come into the protected environmental belt and such performances that we must bring first order of ship speed, its ability to build in terms of nature, since they are already almost open sea, but we also know that on the Adriatic Sea is large, up to 5, 6, 7 meters from this point is very challenging business which is very important in terms of financial resources, and in fact, in fact, in fact, in terms of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the EU of the Republic of the Republic of the EU of the EU of the EU of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the EU And given the organisation and equipment and radar and aircraft and each other, in 2006 it prevailed that, despite some other states that have declared belts, that the Coast Guard was involved in the Ministry of Defence system and that part of HRM's resources was then relocated from the CROMAC to the Coast Guard and, in my opinion, was a quality decision because, nevertheless, most of these states that have the need and can declare economic zones, in such a way, organized although there are other cases but what in any case clearly knows is the distinction between the territorial sea control where a certain state has its sovereignty and there is well that this coordination, the coordination of 8,9 ministries, now I see that you have proposed that a representative of the fire community enters into coordination, that is good, therefore, in the work of the territorial sea, in the rule of the territorial ministry that has its resources, along with the Coast Guard control of our sovereignty in its external territory, the coastal territory, the coastal sea. So I support this law, it ends this one legislation, I can agree with my colleague Vidovic, although I think that when it comes to the Coast Guard Commander, that already, given the fleet we have at our disposal, it can be assumed that this is not a very lower officer, that it is a practical and previous experience in the appointment of the Coast Guard commander, from the first commander to the present day, see at which level the Coast Guard Commander is appointed, whether or not it has been released, it would have allowed it to be resolved by other acts, by the sublegal acts provided for here in this law, I think that the Internal Order or the Regulation on the establishment of authorised persons, in the system is defined and which is the officer level, that it may be the Coast Guard Commander. Therefore, I support the law and full support to the ministry to rebuild and build a new Coast Guard fleet. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178512	Thank you very much. Two replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178513	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mr. Bačić, from where in your discussion I initially called about the ZERP view, etc., I will read to you something "There is no coast guard in the world that does not exercise the jurisdiction of its country from the coast to the line of full sovereignty, the external border of the territorial sea. They are also doing so in an exclusive economic belt, and some, in accordance with the Convention and international law, act both on the open sea and above the zone, even those that do not operate in the open sea and above the zone do not deny themselves the right to do so." We deny ourselves the right to this bill, to limit ourselves to ZERPA. So the question arises, is this some version of the economic belt, when it comes to the ZERP because international conventions do not know it and were in the international court able to defend jurisdiction over scientific research and on the protection and conservation of the marine environment. On the third or under the first jurisdictional law convention on the raising and use of artificial islands, devices and devices, we gave up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178514	Mr. Vidovic, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178515	I'm just asking you to finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178516	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178517	I didn't read this, Mr. Kardum's former commander...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178518	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178519	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kolega Vidović, Croatia no longer has an open sea or is our territorial sea or is our ZERP or is the Italian territorial sea or is their own a certain derivative, I don't even know what they called their own, I don't know where in the Mediterranean is coming first down Greece, so Malta doesn't know down where the first open sea is that there is no sovereignty or sovereign rights of the coastal state that sits on that sea. So we don't have our open seas because we've already declared it ZERP and put it under our sovereign rights. Therefore, it is true that the army cannot intervene in the territorial sea, it cannot... on the fishing vessel, the army of a military ship cannot come even in a protected eco-fishing belt unless it is under this law that Article 7 seems to me the commander of the Coast Guard does not call for help. So the Coast Guard can at a certain point if there is no resources to invite the Croatian Navy to assist him in the intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178520	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178521	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, I am interested in seeing you on one subject that is very much related to this proposal, it is that we have discussed and discussed in public a lot about the need for Croatia to increase the isolation of its armed forces or defence forces, it is even defined at the level of nearly 9 billion kuna compared to what NATO is asking us to do. Now, I'm curious, is there any way and why we want to be an example of some other and larger countries that are trying to redefine relations in NATO alliances like France, and why would we as a country set $3.4 billion more annually for some things that I don't think are a priority at this point? So it is very clear on this side that Croatia needs to show what its priorities are, investment in people, investment in education, and not 4.5 billion kunas more spend annually on some things that we do not need at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178522	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I trust my colleague Maras, and I hope that the SDP does not deviate from the policy of the Racans. I do not believe that today's SDP would in a certain way separate itself from Ivica Racan's policy, and I know and remember the SDP when SDP, together with HDZ, advocated two strategic national goals, which is to join the EU and join NATO. When we entered NATO, we knew what was waiting for us. It is not good in international politics to have a figure in your pocket or you will go there to this organization that we have agreed is good for the national strategic interests of Croatia or let us not enter. If we decided to come in there, then we could be worth a little while, pretend we don't know, we don't want, we can't, but when you entered an organization that prescribes your terms, let's stick to it. If we're going to do it in two, five, ten years, it's now a question that we can talk about, but to build on it, I don't think that's the best solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178524	Time. Mr. Angel's Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178525	Col. Bačić, the current government that no government has taken care of security so far, this is what budget expenditures tell us, and also a number of legislative proposals that we discussed here in the Parliament. Here we were yesterday discussing the Fire Department Act, today on the Coast Guard, after this point we are discussing the service in the armed forces, two months ago we were the Law on the Police and no government has ever taken so much care of the standards of police officers, soldiers, firefighters, and now the Coast Guard. Everything is being done to ensure that our citizens are as safe as possible and that, of course, they can guarantee our citizens security and protect their territory. Now that such efforts from the opposition cups seem to come only criticism, and they are unable to make one too many proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178526	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178527	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Striker, I agree that national security needs to be invested in this system. So in my debate, I spoke and supported investment in Coast Guard resources. When the state invests enough funds to be able to effectively monitor its sea belt, then these costs according to some calculations say that about 65 euros per square kilometre should be provided at an annual level in the maintenance of the system, which for our concepts is about a million, 800,000 euros only maintenance of the system, when it is built entirely and when it is established. So to get to that position, we have to invest in that system. I agree with you that there is no need to train the coast guard as soon as possible. to fully monitor. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178528	Thank you. Let's move on. Now she's having an individual discussion Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178529	Thank you very much. I will again say that this Law on the Croatian Coast Guard does not make any changes. He is in line with the current situation and still linking the Croatian fire department that we proposed last night with the law to shut down has not yet been shut down, so that is also questionable. However, we must talk about what is important and what is important to Croatia for its sovereignty. I will repeat that, according to the 2013 European Commission analysis, Croatia is losing between EUR 170m and 270m annually due to the failure to declare an exclusive economic belt. So, the territorial sea is one thing, the exclusive economic belt is another, the exclusive economic belt of 24,000 square kilometers we have declared to be a match for the European ZERP officials, which means the full application of the exclusive economic belt and the ZERP is the difference as if you buy a car without a car, without a sledge, without a hood, we mean exactly what the Italians wrote to us that suits them and today we have a problem that we have not declared that we lose our annual meaning according to the analysis of the commission, colleagues and colleagues, to whom we all call. Europe is being called upon by our prime minister, the EU, so you can say anything to him, but when you mention the EU to him and anything negative, then it's easy to bone yourself like a kitten when he sees a chicken. Therefore, I believe that the Croatian Coast Guard cannot control our territorial waters with one kayak and several boats, or so on. ZERP that derivative, that we must invest in the coast guard, that the coast guard simply because of the material and technical means and the devastation of the coast guard, that Italian fishermen hunt in our and the territorial seas go deep down to the coast, destroy our fish fund and do the ecocid by destroying both flora and fauna uncontrollably. And that's a fact. We must first of all declare an exclusive economic belt, which is what has no power of any government, no government, it was in the early 2000s, in 2008, pushed by Mr. Rozic and HSP. There was no power at the time, even something declared, so it was declared because we had to hand over to European officials to enter the EU violently, to bow and crawl at their feet, not only did we not do this, but I told them we had to arrest all the generals, locate, transfer, what your colleague and colleague Vladimir Seks said, and of course we have what we have at this point. By calculating, I'll repeat from 2000 to today that there are 200 million Euros, that 200 million Euros are here we cross the figure of about 30 billion kunas. So we lose the Peljek Bridge annually. This isn't sucked out of the finger, so here's a huge space, it's 24,000 square miles. And this recommendation from the European Commission to all Member States to declare this belt with a view to protecting marine resources. Most countries, so we don't think that if we push the Most, most countries have declared an exclusive economic belt, not just on the Mediterranean. But we didn't do it, we did some kind of hybrid, we didn't declare full application, and we have that right under the '82 UN Convention. I don't see any reason why we don't. Croatia has the sense that it can also make economic potential for coastal ships. It's late from 5, only 1 so far is over, of the 5 planned that have already been tried to be over. I hope that as soon as possible Croatian, the Croatian Coast Guard will have there, and material technical means and ships and that they will have this in their own, in their operating system and that we will be able to control our exclusive economic belt. But first of all, we have to declare the exclusive economic belt. And that is to mention colleagues and colleagues, the patriotic coalition where HDZ led and signed that it is their priority to declare an exclusive economic belt and that it is an obligation and that it is the sovereign right of the Croatian state. If ZERP wasn't that, it's not what an exclusive economic belt is. And you can very easily check it out. So, first of all, it is not understandable to me why it was not declared when it was to be declared before EU entry, and which is why counterpart Bacic and all of them were now participants in the policy-respecting secretary, which is why they are not sorry to the Croatian people, which is why they were not then declared an exclusive economic belt. Which is why we crawled in front of Carla Del Ponte when the champagne opened, then the tribal, opened champagne when Ante Gotovina was arrested. The champagne opened when we tried to declare an exclusive economic belt. And I'm sorry that neither my colleagues from the SDP nor the HDZ for the first time when we gave for the first time, when we had to vote, to vote on this, the exclusive economic belt and the full application to declare itself, why didn't you support it? It's our right. And the Croatian fisherman is not in the same conditions and is not protected, there is no same as, equal to other EU fishermen. I understand the friendship of our prime minister with Tajani but we must protect our fisherman, we must protect our farmers, but this is not done. By applying an exclusive economic belt, I repeat, according to the European Commission's 2013 analysis. Croatia would not lose 170m to 270m euros. So who's in control right now, who's in control? It will be in a boat, in a caiaquis fishing fleet that runs across our territorial waters and into the area of the declared ZERP so-called "ZERP".? Who's controlling it? I will be like Savudrija where Slovenian fishermen continue to send infractions and large bills that should be paid, no one will report to them anymore, in our sea, not Slovenian, but in our sea. For what? Because we do not have the strength and what was much more important was not to declare an exclusive economic belt, strengthen the Coast Guard, use these funds called by the European Commission and thus protect the sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia and apply the jurisdictional rights, full application of the exclusive economic belt and in this way the only thing we got, we got that former Minister Buric is here today in the European Council, that's what we got for the prize. That's what we got, that's all we got, nothing else. Well, we always kneel. We're shaking like dogs, who matches when the Tajani, when the Vucic, when the Slovene, why? Sovereign rights of the Republic of Croatia under the UN Convention in '72. G. has the right to declare an exclusive economic belt, full application, not of these hybrids, but of the full application of the exclusive economic belt. Use EU funds and our brains, our economies to develop, provide the Coast Guard with material and technical resources to protect both our territorial waters and an exclusive economic belt. And everything else is a dead letter on paper, much more important is the exclusive economic belt for the sovereign Republic of Croatia than the relations between Prime Minister Plenkovic and fascist Tajani.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178530	Thank you very much, time. But you've got replicas, so you'll be able to continue, Mr. Ivan Kirin asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178531	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Bulj. ZERP covers the sea space from the territorial sea towards the high seas, towards the border of the epicontinental belt. He was declared ZERP in 2003. Why was ZERP declared not an exclusive economic belt because you need to know that ZERP contains all the essential elements of the exclusive economic belt and that was a political call, a manipulation not to declare an economic belt but do we consume all the rights of the ZERP? No, I don't. Because in 2008, a decision was made on the free fishing of all EU flags, but what should the Coast Guard do about you, and what is it protecting you right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178532	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178533	Mr. Kirin, I'm sorry that you as an ex-right and ask Tonci Tadic, your colleague, is the same exclusive economic belt and full application and ZERP? It's absolutely not the same. These are just parts of the exclusive economic belt that Tajani and the Italians wrote that we're going to take off and leave behind. That's the difference. It was then that all the Italians and all the other fishing fleets went to court, except we didn't primarily protect our fish fund, which we didn't protect our territory, which we're not ZERP i.e. The exclusive economic belt is 24 000 km2 protected by the way we have the right to international law and I repeat to you, according to the analysis, that Croatia loses 170 to 270 million euros annually because of the failure to declare an exclusive economic belt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178534	Thank you very much, time. - Mrs. Crescent. Ivana Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. ... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Excuse me, Irene. I'm sorry, Irene, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178535	It's okay, Vice President, thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull, you are contradictory. You say we have to invest in the Coast Guard, so that's exactly what we want with this law. We don't want anyone doing an ecocid, a culture, stealing from our submarines, stealing our fish fund, that's what this Coast Guard is for. We don't want to have an abandoned fleet, so that's what we're proposing to this law. No one here is courting anyone, and no one humiliates anyone but you who humiliates us from this side all the time and says that we are being humiliated and courting. And that economic belt you're talking about so much, it wouldn't be worth anything to you if it wasn't for the Coast Guard and the Navy. So tomorrow we'll declare what you're saying and it won't be the way you're talking and thinking without the Coast Guard and the Navy. So you're not aware and I don't believe that you're against the protection and surveillance of the sea and the submarines because if you were against it then you wouldn't be talking like this. Therefore, you yourself are contradictory.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178536	Thank you very much. One more excuse for a mistake before. Mr. Bull, you can answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178537	Thank you. Comrades... the moment that tomorrow if the triba declares an exclusive economic belt, you will never declare it because you cannot. Plenkovic can't. ... Well, I knew, I gave... and there was a vote on our proposal to declare an exclusively economic belt, and neither you nor the SDP voted. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Even then, you did not support the proposal that was made in 2007 and 2008. So you simply had the opportunity to vote in full application of the exclusive economic belt. But I'm calling myself here, of course, we can't, like, now with two boats and two cocks, control the coast guard, we can't control it, but all of these sitting here, the Honorable secretary has long been in the ministries all the same meaning. So who's to blame because we don't have a coast guard, why don't we have ships, who's to blame for not controlling us? Who is to blame that we lose 170m to 270m euros per year according to the European Commission? We lose one Peljek bridge a year. Who's to blame for our Italian fishermen mocking and mocking us?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178538	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras who will have his individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. After these discussions, someone might get the impression that this is also about the debate on the ZERP or the economic belt, which is that, that is, that we are also talking about the coast guard, we are also talking about how we should develop our capacities and it is impossible not to look back on the current situation on NATO membership. It means that we are a NATO member, that we have certain preferences and benefits from this security network that NATO represents, does not mean that we do not have to think about how the situation will develop in the future and what all these messages that world leaders exchange with each other from Mr. Macron to Mr. Trump that they will reflect on Croatia. So, first of all, as far as the defense and the amount that we've committed to single out, or what we're setting out at this point, my position is very clear. So we must respect our obligations within some of the deadlines that are appropriate, but if the great countries do not do so, I do not see that Croatia must be an example that will show the path to France, Canada and other countries. So these relations are much more complex and Croatia has very little impact on them. And on that side, I think that until these relations are settled in the NAT0 itself, it is a priority to develop certain capacities that will help Croatia be a better country, I primarily think about investing in education, investing in future generations. I don't think that airplanes are our priority and I can say that sometimes here and in my party, we have tried to position ourselves differently in relation to some of the views we had in the past because the truth is that when we invest in ships and when we invest in the coast guard and when we invest in those capacities because Croatia has a pearl from the sea and on that side we can de facto defend our sky and from the sea. So we need to see what our priorities are, which is why we chase and buy new planes, spend billions of kunas to meet certain criteria that no other much more developed and richer countries meet. Why don't we say Canada or France single out 2% of their defense GDP? Which is why Croatia on that side, and even Germany, I don't think it has that capacity. And that is why we would like our prime minister, when he is already going to NATO meetings to try to position Croatia there in a way to see where NATO will end in the future because when a president of France says that NATO as an organisation is dead and that there is no bright perspective that we should focus on European forces, then the EU military forces should be pictured of it, and not only are they happy that you are sitting with a table with world leaders, and in this way there is a possible tower that could complete this whole picture that was taking place in London these days. And if that picture were not stable and secure, it shows how the meeting ended and how certain actors of the meeting acted. So when we talk about protecting the sea, when we talk about the coast guard, when we talk about our interests, it's a much higher priority. I would be happy to build more ships in our shipyards, it seems to me that today someone has said that this is about that we have delivered over the past one ship, I wish we had shown capacity there, and instead of spending 2,3,4 or 5 billion kunas in the US economy from buying F16 or in some other countries if they are Gripeni or how many other planes they are, I think it would be much more useful to invest in our economy and to build ships that will provide our seas or what Croatia legitimately considers its greatest treasure. So I must say that I do not agree here with the views of my colleague Bulja, so we are relatively concerned with the safety of our sea, and of course there are always these problems about fishing or using certain resources which, because of their size of the fleet and the possibility of exploiting fish, have some other countries. But I think that, more or less within the EU, some European legislation can solve the problems we have here. So in the end, I would like to say that in the context of this debate that as far as NATO is concerned, I am quite skeptical that it will end. I would like to develop our defence capacities within our industry, to encourage our defence industry whether it's weapons, rifles, guns that we already have very high-quality manufacturers or the production of military equipment, helmets, the Sestan-Busch firm, and I would like to develop ships in our shipyards. The more money we spend in Croatia, of course, according to reasonable criteria, and I don't think we have to meet 2% of GDP tomorrow because it's already rising by nearly 9 billion kuna, I don't think Croatia can afford it at the moment when it's expensive for us to have aunts and janitors in schools. Now we see that a huge injustice has been done to untrained staff in schools. So for them, we don't have 100, 200 million kunas, but to buy planes next year or in two years, the HDZ government could single out 2, 3 billion kunas, which I think is unrealistic and unnecessary at this point, and we don't have to suffer for it to show I don't know what we have, and in fact the threat is real at this point doesn't exist. We can leave it for a while when our budget is able and able to finance such things. As for American donations, someone talked here and about helicopters, etc., donations are okay, they're always good, but we all know that they always bind themselves and extra costs because when you get a combat agent, whether it was a helicopter or a combat vehicle you have to do more and education and later maintain and eventually that cost seems free to you, but believe me it's never free and it creates certain costs, but of course it's much less than when buying new equipment or when buying, for example, new planes or new fighting armored vehicles. So here, in the end, I support that we are going towards developing and strengthening our coast guard, to invest as much in ships as possible in safety at sea, and I think we have something to show here and that we have even knowledge and experience, and in the end that we can also participate more in international specific missions especially in these dramas that happen in the crossings of immigrants between Africa and Italy. We also proved to be a very solid and quality partner, and I hope that will be so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178540	Okay, no one can say you didn't mention this law so I didn't interrupt. You mentioned him twice. Mrs. Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178541	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State and Mr. Zelic. The current law, as it says in the light of this 2009 bill, and as our people would say, is fully ready for reconstruction. Given the technological needs set before us in view of the need to safeguard and protect our sea border, which includes 948km of sea and in view of all these challenges from illegal attempts to cross the sea, from attempts to steal marine goods, cultural goods, fish funds, etc. So this law is good for me because it has the synergy of several resolution ministries, first of all it's the MORH, but then the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Sea and Infrastructure. The Coast Guard is just doing its job, which is protecting and controlling everything I've listed. And when we talk about the quality of various coast guard models in international examples, so in countries that have a similar situation as Croatia then let us be aware that each model has its advantages and disadvantages. There are two coast guard models of the most general model, and there are many hybrid models that are between these two models. One model is the centralized coast guard, and another model is the so-called coast guard. Network Coast Guard. So each of the models has both advantages and disadvantages and even this bill is not quite perfect, but at this point it is the best bill. And of course what we've imagined in theory should be adequately implemented in practice. If it is not implemented in practice then this law will need to be corrected and processed, but at this point let's be objective and realistic and let's say that this bill is a step forward to protect and preserve the sea and sea, and that is the essence of coast guard action. The central system is sometimes difficult in real conditions to expect different components to cooperate with each other, and as I mentioned here there are several resolution ministries although, above all, MORH and MUP are in the protection and control of the main resolution bodies. But if we look at the Croatian model of state formation, then we know that it is intertwined in questions about the sea and into the sea of several resolution ministries. And then maybe we're more prone to this decentralised model that's free and colloquial to say state in the sea. Why? Well, because we see that in practice, we actually get a couple of resistors intertwined, but it intertwines in a way that they are in synergy and co-ordination. So there's a central place and there's a commander who's in charge but without the synergy and coordination of those bodies and that at all times knows who, what and how he does, doesn't even make sense to start this job of protection and supervision. And it is very important that this command-aware system then works well and in practice how it is imagined in theory and to be in practice established to know at all times the clear line of command responsibility and horizontally and vertically and to know who and how it is done and what is expected of whom, but very concrete and important is the speed of action, because the maritime power of a country is not only protection and control. Although it's unusual how some view it one-dimensionally. Of course, protection and surveillance are important, but it also depends on the socioeconomic conditions of the country. So it doesn't matter if you have 10 ships or you have 100 ships, it doesn't matter if you have 20 aircraft to control the sea and air or you have 1 plane. So, all this is one package also depends on socioeconomic conditions, depends even on diplomatic abilities to negotiate certain things because we can make the Croatian Navy and the Coast Guard oversee the entire Adriatic Sea, but will we agree with the neighbours as equal members of the EU that depends on someone's diplomatic skills, but we can have ambitions and they are legitimate. Therefore, what is important to say when some controversy has been opened, so in part of the Coast Guard task, the Croatian Navy is part of a unique system. Many will find it difficult to understand how the navy is doing part of the coast guard because it has various examples in international practice, so counterpart Vidovic, who is unfortunately not here, has not been polymised on the subject. And with the right to carry out coast guard tasks, it can be the entire navy, and it may be part of the navy, and in the event that the Coast Guard gives regular powers, for example. your warship then there's no need to translate it into public ships. That's what I wanted to replicate my colleague Vidic but I couldn't because he spoke for the club, and there's no replicas on the club. What is also important to say is that part of the Navy is set up as a whole and placed under the jurisdiction of the Coast Guard and this is often the case in Mediterranean countries. It is similar in the Italian Republic, Greece and Turkey. And now some will say this model is not good, I say every model has advantages and flaws, but if we talk about models then let's go comparatively and we'll see how others have, and we won't repeat as parrots the same and convince the public of something that isn't true. In Italy, the Coast Guard operates under the supervision of another state body, it is the Ministry of Transport, in Greece it is the Ministry of Commerce, in Turkey the Coast Guard is also a branch of the armed forces. It is in peacetime conditions, it is in peaceful conditions, so in peace there is one task of the Coast Guard and the Navy, in the war there is another task, or other tasks and objectives, and this should be made a distinction between peacetime action and war action. In the war there's a Coast Guard and the Navy first and foremost the Coast Guard is in the war support of the Navy, that's important, and the Navy has the task of defence and that's quite clear. So, there are some things that need to be made clear after all. Those who read the laws know that there is a part that stands in each and every part of this law somewhere on a page, and that part is called the questions that are dealt with by this law. Well, when we read these questions that are being settled by this law, then things are completely visible to us, so we know what this law does. Something that deals with this law other than the protection of the sea voyage and the protection of this matter, the marine environment, the natural and cultural heritage of the fish fund, etc., is important and the purpose of this law is to provide assistance and protection to victims and rescue in intervention situations in peacetime conditions, and we have also not mentioned, and it is very important to combat the prevention of trafficking in people, trafficking in human beings and opiates, preventing illegal migration across the sea or sea. It's all covered by this law. When we put all this together, then we can say that this law is trying to fix what we saw that from 2009 to today we need to fix, we need to coordinate, we need to improve efficiency, we need to improve the networking of the body and the information network, it doesn't matter either. So, we need to fix the logistics network and we need to fix the information network, and that's all the purpose of this law, and that's all the tasks of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178542	Representative Gordan Maras has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178543	Thank you very much. I'm interested in Mrs. Irene's position on investment or investment. Do you think it is more appropriate for Croatia, given its size and economic power and the industry it has, to invest in the construction of new ships or to buy new fleets of aircraft? So, for the value of 12 planes, we can build 10 or 15 coast guard ships that I could say in a very good way, even replace that we don't have planes to defend the defect of our sky and from the sea. So I'm wondering which one, do you see that problem or what ours are, what should our priorities be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178544	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178545	counterpart Maras, two things, first Croatia when entering NATO, signed a contract as well as any full NATO member on its commitments, and one of these commitments is investment in defence. As I said earlier on socioeconomic conditions, it depends on the possibility of investing in that part of our defence industry that we ourselves can, and one part is obligations that we must fulfil as a full member of NATO. On the one hand, there are commitments in NATO, and on the other hand, the budget of the MORH and the Government is as much as they can self-invest in their own military industry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178546	Representative Angelko Strick asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178547	My fellow Members, you have well noticed that there is often debate in the House on everything but the goal, or question, why this law is even passed. Of course, as a state we are obliged to protect our borders, that we are obliged to protect our territory, guarantee our citizens, and also to tourists, since we are a tourist country, security, so it is not clear to me that today some do not understand why this is necessary and why Croatia does not buy only ships but also fighter aircraft. We as an independent sovereign and independent state are obliged to protect our airspace. We can either pay one of our neighbors in two ways or have our own air force. I'm always for this second option, to have our own air force, our own army and our own planes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178548	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178549	Every independent and sovereign state, a respected colleague strives to have his own defence forces, including Croatia. It's always better to have your own strength than to rely on neighbors. Having on the one hand our own defense force, and on the other hand being part of the alliance we choose to be, as we have chosen to be part of NATO alliances and some other alliances. During this whole debate, one of them took the forest, and the other one took the road, as our people say. We went on the subject of the law and what this law is about, and some others went on to some other topic that had nothing to do with this law. Maybe they got confused because other ministries were mentioned. Other ministries must be mentioned because the Homeland Security system includes many components, including the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy, agencies and other institutions. It may have been confusing for the colleagues in the opposition, so they felt that they needed to deal with other issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178550	Thank you. Representative Josip Boris reported for an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178551	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS. I want to say something about the Coast Guard Act, the final proposal, because I believe that the debates that are being held in this House, whenever we talk about the Croatian Army in a way that the Croatian Army is trying to come to terms that are not appropriate and a certain level of debate and a response to such discussions. When we talk about the Croatian Army, it is one of the best stories of our young Croatian state in the past 30 years. 30 years of growing, perfecting, developing Croatian defence forces, the Croatian Army, 30 years of which the Croatian Army and Croatian soldier have shown what they know in the war and what peace and debates of the people in the direction of trying to injure themselves here and thus in the army to offend or in some procedure make this kind of debate, does not deserve this kind of debate when we have the story of a law concerning a single Croatian army member, which is the Coast Guard because if one country has experience in war and peace in the EU, then it is Croatia and everything we have passed in the creation of the state that has its own repercusions and today and I am surprised that this morning's debate we are starting to see whether or not someone has declared an exclusive economic explanation, and that's why the Croatian Army is good, bad, government is better or worse. The more they put it as a question, the more they had twice the chance to put it on the agenda so they didn't put it on one. Because they were part of Croatian governments, unfortunately, they had to leave because they didn't know and understood what their task was and that today they would insist on making certain demands out of the opposition that they knew they could set up, and they didn't have the courage, as they now have the courage to politicise or deal with, as IGP politics says. What we tried through this law. For 12, 13 years, the story of the Coast Guard has been one story, complex in which all governments have been involved so far and trying to create it in a way that is functional, but also to include more resistors. To have more of them inside the entire system and to know the system, i.e. the way it works and who in that entire command system. The Croatian military has shown, I say, in the past, but also in the present, which can and how the Croatian soldier should be treated. The current and current defence minister has clearly shown great steps over the past few years, 3 years and more, as the one most important, most deserved, i.e. One who commands the entire system in the sense that the Croatian soldier, I say, should be well equipped, that HV be well equipped, that everything that makes the component of the HV from the very areas in which they live, stay, work, be on an appropriate level, that they have everything they need to be able to function and today's perception of Croatian soldiers in relation to what we had a few years ago, I think that each of us will say that a great step has been made. The return of the Croatian Army to the cities of Pula, Varazdin, Vukovar, Ploče clearly shows that what the minister himself has stated is that we are here to help Croatian citizens, when they are difficult situations, but also to perform our peaceful function as well as many missions that the Croatian military, I say, is acting on the decisions of HS outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. We are more surprised by the stories of colleagues from the SDP who resent what is yet to come as a task for us to defend or defend ourselves, we must allocate some and more resources than we have done now because we are part of certain alliances. For them, it is perfectly normal for Titus’s “Galeba” to be restored to 60 million kunas, and that is not a problem. If we need to get or make some kind of patrol ship or something, then it's all controversial, for Titus's "Galeba" can be 60 million kuna we'll be in charge but for one Navy ship or a patrol ship, it's problematic because someone else is looking for it, there's no one here looking for the SDP to be that way and this Tito's "Galeb", here is finally after a number of peripetias going to rebuild. It is not a meaningless amount, likely someone in it or in those who were important, will stay and enjoy it for a long time. As regards the law itself, the basis of the Coast Guard itself is clearly stated, i.e. that jurisdiction is exercised. supervision of what is in the area, in the territory in which we need to establish full self-monitoring in order to prevent tasks i.e. prevents activities that are listed in its 12 tasks for Coast Guards, of which the most important are the exercise of the jurisdiction itself within the Republic of Croatia in the ZERP, and then the search and rescue of certain possible disasters that may occur in the area in which we are responsible as a state and of course what is happening in the area of fisheries but also in the criminality or unauthorized crossings of the Croatian border. I think that in 12 years and so far it has been implemented in one appropriate way and through this law is re-established in which both the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and numerous other components have been re-established through other resolutions. The question here is who should be in command, so far we've had the level of the commodore, we'll probably still have the highest possible level of those officers, and it shouldn't be controversial no matter what it says or doesn't say. What I want to say in the end is that I support this law in its entirety, I think that the step forward regardless of trying to bring it down to nothing compared to what we've had so far and trying to do in that area when we talk about the Coast Guard, makes another step towards quality and better management of the entire system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178552	Representative Damir Felak is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178553	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You are good at exhibiting why we need quality coast guard equipment, but you also spoke about the need to equip the Croatian Army or Croatian Armed Forces. Do you agree with any discussions that have been brought here that we do not need to obtain fighter aircraft? In one word, we should invest much less in the equipment of the Croatian army and that money should be directed into others, here were the cleaning women, etc., which is pure demagogy but let us remember not so long ago when we entered the war completely bare-handed and when one political option literally disarmed us at the beginning of the war when she handed over the weapons of the territorial defence of the Republic of Croatia, the JNA who then attacked the Croatian state with the same weaponry? Should we today allow this to happen again or should we guarantee peace for all Croatian citizens with good equipment of the Croatian army? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178554	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178555	Thank you very much. My colleague Felak, I agree with this second piece, means that we should have a fully equipped Croatian army and I hope that through the mandate of this and the next Government we will do so when we talk about air forces. Again, it was not a problem if 60 million kunas were to be singled out for the restoration of an old ship called the Seagull, which is never a problem but all of this is problematic, why, because we want to deal with politics, we do not want to look around us and we want to forget what we did as our colleagues do on the other hand. Let us remember the famous restoration of MiGs that ended in one of the biggest affairs of the Croatian army that people in row 4 and 5 were responsible for, not those who were guilty of such an affair, and we simply have today what we have, to fix after them everything we have to or what we inherited and to make the system better so that it can work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178556	Thank you. Representative Sasa Djujic reported for an individual debate. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next representative who reported for individual participation in the debate is representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in the context of this law, I will talk about the amount of punishment we have in our Penal Code and Infringement Law because the financing of the Croatian Coast Guard was mentioned here. So we're the last six months. media had cases in the media when the Italians were hunting in our territorial sea and the portals announced the penalties. In the case six months ago. When that Italian fisherman showed his middle finger to a Croatian journalist, he came out sea.hr, the portal came out that the punishment was about 40,000 kuna. In that crew, I think 5 or 6 people, when it's being recalculated, so it turns out each of them got a sentence of less than 10,000 kuna. What statistically shows is that Croatian penalties for Italian fishermen are not demotive for them, so there are many relapsers who are actually constantly caught in hunting in the Croatian territorial sea, which means, therefore it makes sense to me if someone appears three or four times in the Croatian territorial sea, and he was punished, that this punishment did not demotize him to do it again. So it is very logical that the penalties should be much stricter so that these penalties could also finance our Croatian Coast Guard and I will also go up to one proposal that Italian fishermen, i.e. chariots that were caught in our sea four or five times to prey on them permanently that ship. In addition, we had suggestions in the Transport Safety Act that people who were constantly being punished in traffic violations could be seized by their own car. So it is very logical that another fact that Croatian fishermen are not caught in the Italian sea, therefore, is that we do not have statistical ones. That means it's cheaper for them to hunt in our sea. Now there was the last case, and there I must commend this and the Croatian courts, when Italian fishermen were caught again in our sea, that the punishment for them was much higher than in that previous case, so the penalty was about 70,000 kuna, but again, when we turn it and divide it into a multi-member crew, so they were in that fisher, I think 5, so again I think it's not enough. And now he would compare these penalties with one law that comes into our House. So-called Lex specialis, and that's cheerleading law. So what message do we send to Croatian citizens, if this law that has not yet been thanked to God comes to the Croatian Parliament to punish a man, i.e. the family who blew more than 0.5, so he sat in the stadium calmly, watching the game calmly, so he never made a mess, so the law says he'll be punished from 2,000 to 30,000 kuna. So he can theoretically be punished for two beers for 30 thousand kuna which turns out that the Croatian law equally treats a man who drank two beers and an Italian poacher in the sea who hunted our natural resources. So, I think it's illogical, that it's a very bad message, but that's what the law says right now, so under Croatian law right now, and if the law is passed, you'll be worse and harder to punish if you've had two or three beers, sitting still at the game, the police gave you an alcoholic, you've blown more than 0.5 proms than the Italian fisherman who was hunting in our sea. So here's what I think we need to correct, especially as far as financing our Coast Guard is concerned, so the fines must be greater. With these penalties, we don't sort of fund our Coast Guard, and then we won't need such a big fleet if we're gonna demotize them that they're bad, that they don't hunt in our sea at all. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178558	Representative Damir Felak is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178559	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. You said about the Coastal Train Act commendably, and I think that's fine, but I would replicate or agree with you in this part where you talked about the breaking law on the behavior of viewers at sports facilities, and I think that in this part of which you said is completely restrictive and I don't think it's right, and in the end it puts citizens in a completely unequal position because it's said that it can't be, it means drinking 2 beers, having more than 0.5% alcohol, passing alcohol in the blood, on a sports facility, and let's just say no other events are mentioned. So someone can go to a theater play completely drunk, to a concert or any other event, it's not sanctioned, and it's sanctioned at a sports facility. I think it's even unconstitutional and it's not right and it should be fixed anyway. If someone's causing problems, they need to be clearly sanctioned, but if he's calm and he's following the game or any event clearly no one can do anything to him or the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178560	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178561	Thank you. Your Honor. You know what else the law says, so the bill? That you won't be punished just by a man who's in the stadiums... It's the law that says "come." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Legally, what does coming mean? You can practically start from your entrance to the building and it's coming to the stadium, someone can stop you, blow up 0.5 proms and you can't actually go to the stadium or you can walk past the stadium, you can go to another city to the game, so the law is freakish, hypocritical, so I said, if you already pass such a law, then you should, for example. adopt the Law on National Clubs Visitors because there are more riots in the statistics than in sports stadiums, but here, folk clubs, those visitors of folk clubs are not being punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178562	Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178563	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the ministry. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and I especially welcome you, dear citizens. We're discussing the Coast Guard Act that was established, if I'm not mistaken somewhere in 2006. There are a lot of laws that are good, it's not the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's not the law. What laws don't apply. But we from the party Change Croatia always wonder what the meaning of this law is and let's say the Coast Guards. What is the purpose of the Coast Guard in Croatia? We've got a long shore, we've got sea. What's she actually doing? So it lists a whole series of tasks that should be carried out by the Coast Guard, so it's a security system. On the other hand, environmental protection, the fight against smugglers, this, that, etc. However, what is extremely important if we also speak to security matters, whether it protects our good and this is primarily a question of ZERP, the law means an economic-fishing belt that Croatia has not declared. And then what can our coastal side do while the Italian chariots are overdoing our share of the submarine. He can just watch and when they're done asking guys what kind of catch he was today, whether he was good or not. Here you go. It is the story of Croatian interests never before led by the political structures of Croatia. And when we see how many Coast Guard professional services are planning to hire people or are already employed, so it can be run by the Department of Defense, not just the Coast Guard, they can run almost the Department of Defense. Furthermore, as the internal surveillance system is established, whether or not there is a God-given case to be used as the helicopters down in Zemunik used to smuggle weapons inside the army system of the Republic of Croatia and that no one did, that the Secretary of Defense gave us a cold presentation, a little sprayed with water and nothing. That's what politics in Croatia looks like. Well, respected citizens if you really think that this is what we need and that we can live like that that, that we will have a future then the situation in the next election is simple, then support the representatives of these parties who have done this until now. And you see how this ZERP, so the Italians are doing a huge business here, and it's well said today about 300 million euros in damage we suffer annually because of the fish coming out of our part of the Adriatic. And now multiply by the number of years it's been and we kill each other, we kill each other by talking about how much funds will be withdrawn from the EU funds, watch out for 300 million euros, that's 5 billion kuna, so let's make it 3 billion kuna. So on the one hand, this government, however, doesn't care how much it is taken from Croatia and on the other hand we wait as beggars, they wait as beggars to come from the EU funds and respected citizens I have already said on several occasions here, again, I have never received an answer, I haven't even received a representative question that pedantically under a, b, c, that sent to the Ministry of Finance on my claim that Croatia is more paying in the EU system than is paid, not as much as agreed, let go of that story, how paid it is. So Croatia pays more EU net than it gets. Explain it to me here and to the citizens that it's not true. We lose at every step, we lose at sea. Well, what's good, which I agree with, is that if you need to build a couple of coast guard ships, then first you need to know what they're doing, declare ZERP, catch criminals, smugglers. But you have not been able to do so, so you have created this system which you have ruled, and you have created it. How will you fight it? Then you have to face your own, and you can't do that, you can't do that. Only new people, different, more professional, more honest, can go after Croatia. And that's what we're gonna do. And look what's been done by that ZERP, we've got our own representative, Mrs. Crescent. Tomasic, who had to fight there in the European Commission for a few years in order for our citizens to get a chance to fish a kilo, two heartburns, you know. And when it came back to right again, I almost expected there to be a celebration in Ban Jelačić Square, so what our people have for centuries, for centuries, had now been by weight, the two hearts you're going to catch are promoting it as a achievement, be careful, it's a achievement. Look where Croatia came from, my dear God. Now that I've said investment in ships, yes, but that should have been done by the time the crisis started before the oil crisis. The party Change Croatia I remember exactly when I was here a year and a half ago and I suggested more, because it is done by organized countries when the crisis in the shipbuilding sector is then from the defence system the military is ordered either warships or coast guard ships or so let them. Well, Djuro Djakovic, you see, it's not about that, but just to connect it, so the company, so on. the company for special purposes, for the production of weapons and parts, means the means of combat, so it must operate by other means entirely. He's being shot, you see. So what exactly is going to happen after that? Even if it breaks down that the Republic of Croatia will be even more unprepared tomorrow if there is any war conflict. That's what this is about, but dear citizens, there's only one cure for this whole story to get back to the Coast Guard, and that's how it works for all the other laws. I call you good people, worthy, 45% who sit at home during the election because these are the kind of people who disgusted you with a long time ago policy, and then you think I'm not going to go to elections on purpose because of them, you see. Oh, dear citizens, they're happy that you never go out for the rest of your life, they pray to God that you don't come out because they have only one mortal fear, and that's that mass we go out to elections because they know that when we go out, mass citizens in elections, they're gone, they're gone, they don't know, 90 percent don't know anything else. You see, I'm waiting for that moment and I pray to the dear God to come, so that we finally blow up, clean up this dear country of ours, our country, and then everything will have its own meaning, and so will the Coast Guard who is now actually more or less parading, here and there punishing someone over the summer, of course it has a purpose, but it doesn't do the key things where we lose, declare the ZERP, so then keep it, not fictitiously know where the sea is, so drive a little bit, spend fuel, etc. So, we have a simple dilemma, a simple question, if we're going to keep looking at this, or if we're just going to say it ourselves, but I'm not going to do it for myself anymore, and especially because of my kids that she's running out in the white world, I've been up in Iceland, cold, near the polar belt, up our people are working, I'm asking how much you do, some, this one says Mrs. 20., did you get used to it, said I'm not and I'm never gonna be able, you see how it is here and... That's why, because of the ones our parents used to forbid us to hang out with when we were little, our best people have to move out. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I call upon you fellow citizens to finally support us in these demands, we cannot individually fight here, we can, but we must have your strength to finally resolve this unbearable situation in our dear country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178564	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178565	My colleague Lovrinović, you have spoken well and wisely, but all those leaving leave full of bank accounts, you are economists, no one collects and takes away here in the Republic of Croatia what a minister or official has entered or stolen property, and with which he is leaving. The property card of many who did not even have a fair used Mercedes 124, are now driving Jeep's angry around Zagreb and have apartments Penthouse. You were talking about weapons, and I remember those moments that went, so they came back in pieces, and nobody's looking at it either. And when we talk about moments, why did we even have to send them to the remont? Well, because we didn't have, we're here when we're going to do it, and we have Djuru Djakovic who can serve all of our tanks that he did, who will do it if Djuro Djakovic stops doing it? There's no one left, the knowledge they have. Djura Djakovic's workers will leave [[Intruder: Thank you]] in a non-refundable manner. [[Intruder: Time's up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178566	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178567	Dear colleague Culey, I've had to lean to see it is that you asked a question because I thought you had asked someone from the opposition. What you have stated about acquiring the property of this, that, bank accounts, and that our people are running for it, so I invite you to make a key move, leave this coalition, don't vote for them, and you will incredibly much contribute to changing the situation in the Republic of Croatia, otherwise this speech will be completely empty and not only there, but it will also be hypocritical. I'm sure if you continue like this, you'll surely turn your back on track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178568	Final word on behalf of rapporteur Tomislav Ivic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178569	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, I finally want to thank everyone who participated in this debate. As in the first reading, it should be acknowledged that the least debated is the Coast Guard Act, and much more on other topics, it may be understandable since we are in pre-election time, but I hope you will support the Coast Guard Act when voting, and once again I thank everyone together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178570	This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178571	We move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Coast Guard Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 755. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee and became an integral part of the final draft law. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment of the Most Representatives' Club. Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Ivić. Here you go, Secretary of State. First amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178572	Your Honor, Vice President. So the first amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept with the explanation the Coastal Force of the Republic of Croatia is an integral part of the Croatian Navy, which has in its name an adjective "Croatian". Also in the Croatian Navy, there is a fleet of the Croatian Navy, which in its name does not have an adjective "Croatian" and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia do not have an adjective "Croatian".
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178573	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, please plead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178574	Thank you very much. I am sorry that the government did not accept this proposal because Croatian, Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are called Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia I do not see any reason why the Coast Guard should be changed and that it is called the Croatian Coast Guard, the abbreviations HOS, only if it is not embarrassing for the government to have the Hos, but this is how it goes. So Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia then go means Croatian Navy war force, Croatian Navy and everything else, but you are here obviously and exclusively because it is a abbreviations Hos. So HOS is one of the strongest units in the hardest parts of the Vukovar, Fairfield to Dubrovnik defenses, you don't need to be embarrassed. I would be proud to put on the Croatian Coast Guard because that is how it is. I think that, armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, war force, Croatian Navy and now suddenly what belongs to the Croatian Navy you do not see any reason, no reason, no reason to avoid the Croatian Coast Guard. All species begin with Croatia, only the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, but of course you will experience the discomfort of the coalition partner Milorad Pupovac. I thought at least today he was going to tell us where dr. Ivan Schreter but he's gone, but when we discussed Vukovar. Which is why you're afraid of this, and you don't have the strength, because it's so arranged, and even logically, and without what I just said emotionally, you're afraid exclusively because of a coalition partner. He probably received instructions from Chetnik Vukic, probably because he often visits him as part of you representatives of the majority in the Parliament. I'm sorry, but I expect the MPs to accept this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178575	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178576	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178577	Thanks a lot, buddy. Second amendment. Here you go, buddy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178578	Neither the other amendment shall be accepted by the Proposer with the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178579	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178580	I will repeat again, the Croatian soldier is something of the most famous and honorable and the Armed Forces and the Croatian Army is something that has connected the Croatian people in the community. Avoiding the illogical sights of the army in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia this way is amazing to avoid only Hos, abbreviations HOS, Croatian Coast Guard. I'm sorry, I'm sorry you don't accept that, I expect the parliamentary representatives, here's a colleague from the special police, he'll accept to be a HOS, a Croatian Coast Guard. I don't suppose there's a warrant from Milorad Pupovac or the coalition partners that it's an illegal unit but it's a heroic unit that beat your European friend Chetnik Vukic, friend Milorad Pupovac, the taskmaster who goes to Backo Palank for a celebration, on the prosecutors down around the Storm, I have no idea, when it's the most honorable day of the Storm. So let's not go down to that level. Croatian soldier is a victorious soldier, declared an exclusive economic belt, let us preserve our territory, that is our obligation, to include the Croatian Coast Guard and not the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian Coast Guards are the only armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. What are you worried about? I wonder who he's worried about all the time? From a chipper? Who? Who's stopping you here? I don't really know, secretary, if you're so influenced and how much, the coalition partner Milorad Pupovac has on you, it's unacceptable to me. Probably he's the one who forbade you to use the Hos abbreviations because I don't see any reason. It is honorable and in essence it does not need to compare it but goes logically, the Croatian Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178581	Thank you. You're asking for a vote, of course?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178582	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178583	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Ivić, for showing us about the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178584	Final proposal of the Coast Guard Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 755. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. We've made a statement on the amendments and now we're going to decide on the amendments tabled. First, the amendments to the Legislative Committee, totalling 3 and all three have been adopted and become an integral part of the law. And we have two more amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The first amendment was not accepted by the government, so we must vote. Please vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. Two of the same Club of Representatives, the government doesn't accept it, so I'm asking you to vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. So we move to a vote on the final proposal of the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 119 votes for and 4 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178585	The next item on the agenda is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 789. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Damir Krsticevic, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178586	Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, the Ministry of Defence has been focusing on man, soldier, officer and officer who is the centre of development and upgrade of the HV since the start of this government's mandate. In these last 3 years. We have systematically worked to improve the standards and conditions of life and work of soldiers, officers and officers, officers and subsistence members of the HV. The first step in this approach was certainly the adoption of a new national security strategy adopted in 2017. and which is a fundamental strategic document in the field of security. The new strategy is after 15 years. clearly define the national interests of the Republic of Croatia and the strategic objectives through which these interests are achieved. The strategy recognized the change in the security environment and showed the direction in which our abilities should be developed, the strategy recognized that we need a system of homeland security to deal with all these risks and threats faced by every modern society and thus Croatian society, there is a safety partnership. After the strategy, the logical step was to develop a strategic defence review as a fundamental document in the area of defence, which represents the final report on the process of reviewing, the coherence of strategic concepts, and the achieved and planned defence capabilities with the defence needs arising from the strategic and security environment. The Strategic Defence Review concluded that the level of geopolitical, technological, social and security changes required not only adaptation, but also the full revision of previous defence development plans, the development of a completely new long-term plan that will focus on co-ordinated and even development of all elements of the defence portfolio, and, in particular, the HR to be able to respond to future challenges. Of course, in support of all these changes and the development of new abilities, it was necessary to amend the legislative framework, and we have therefore joined the amendments to the Defence Act 2018. and this year, as well as the Service Act as well as the Final Proposal today in this High House. In particular, in the past 3 years, and in support of the restoration and further development of HV, we have made the following changes, we have already mentioned legislation as a fundamental prerequisite for further development of the system, we have stopped the collapse of the defence budget after 6 years, we have invested in people, we have given them safety and taken away material rights, we have invested in infrastructure, conditions of life and work in our military, and in sports content, we have worked on measures to retain high-quality personnel and attract new quality people, we have set up a new operational deployment of HV, which is in the function of security and support of the people in trouble and through which we have returned the military to 6 strategic locations, Sinj, Vukovar, Varazdin, Udbin, Ploče and Pula, we have developed new capabilities for cyberspace, and through which we have brought the centre of the new management of HV to the newest, which we have completed to the end to the end to the end to the end of the end of the HV. The goal is now, next year, to have 3 instructions and the plan is to train 100 people annually, and in 10 years' time, the plan is to train 1,000 such leaders, and it will certainly help us to make our HV stronger, even better quality, and that we have our commanders who will lead people by personal example, and to guide them by personal example, they must know and understand Croatian soldiers. Then there's a new hub for the unscheduled aircraft systems, you saw recently in Pula that was set up. We invest and invest in the equipment and modernisation of all branches of HV, whether it's a helicopter remount, we're done, the helicopters are in use in HV. Then there's a remont of rocket cannons that's under way, in 2020 we get two rocket cannons. Then there's the purchase of new helicopters, you saw the unanimous consent of the Parliament's Defence Committee regarding, with 2 donated, the purchase of 2 more Black Hawk helicopters. Then there are drones, a fighter plane, I hope a very soon Inter-resor commission will send an official request to the states to give us appropriate offers. Then there is the equipment of the fighting vehicles of Patria and another project that is very important, which is the procurement of new war vehicles Bradley, a very powerful means needed by the HV and then there is the equipment of the navy by boat and fast boats, that is the direction we want to go, that is the future of modern HV which remains a guarantee and stability of the Republic of Croatia and that is where we come to the importance of the Service Act in the armed forces of the Republic and the very core of today's debate. Baseline of the Service Act 2018 It was to raise standards and conditions of life and work of soldiers, officers and officers, officers and tenants. We wanted to enable Croatians to develop better professional development, strengthen the dignity of the military call, and all due to greater interest in joining the HV, promoting the military call and the value of the Homeland War, as well as increasing security and protection of the Republic of Croatia and all of our citizens. Therefore, the amendments to the law of 2018 are crucial. to cover a fairer system of salaries and a gradual return of material fees, the payment of work instead of the exclusive payment of duties which proved unfair and ineffective, the law introduces special guard, duty and field work to active military persons, the most frequent tasks carried out outside of regular working hours. Security of a military call instead of until then there are 3 contracts at a specified time, at 4, 5 and 6. 2 contracts have been entered into for a certain period of time for 2 years and 2nd contracts for an indefinite period of service for up to 45 years of a soldier's life. With this solution, we have achieved the security of employment and the possibility of life planning with all the rights that work on indefinitely carries. The improvement of the system of professional development has been enabled to rotate the command and leadership duties and duties of the first officers every 4th year and since the rotation of all duties has not been feasible until then. The aim was to facilitate multi-annual planning, system flow, staff management, and at the same time provide a clear view of the career of active military personnel. The improvement of support for housing, the new deployment schedule enabled the timely operation of the conditions of assistance to the population and to civilian institutions, you could see this during the fire, the flood that the army was fast and could react and help our people in need. By creating conditions for the growth of forces, creating perceptions of the local population in the presence of the Croatian Army and all environments in which the Croatian Army was returned, we welcome and cooperate with all environments in which the Croatian Army is a factor in security and protection and part of the Homeland Security system. In order to increase the standards of working life and training of members of the Croatian Army, to promote the military call and value of the Homeland War, to increase the safety and protection of the population, and in the context of changes in the security environment and to respond to security challenges, a new operational schedule of the Croatian Army was developed through the return of the troops to Sinj, Varazdin, Ploče, Udbin, Pula and the arrival of troops in Vukovar. So we put the army in border areas. Therefore, at any time we can help the people in distress. The systematic staff that is gravitating towards new locations have achieved that most of the members of a particular unit live and work in the city or nearby area where their troops are located. So, in this way, nearly 1,600 people are getting closer to their families because without the support of the family, there is no strong and motivated Croatian soldier. Raising preparedness as active military personnel are obliged to maintain the required level of physical readiness and for the purpose of promoting healthy and quality life and work this area for the first time normably arranged. In order for the Croatian soldier to successfully carry out his duties it is necessary to have a healthy lifestyle and be active and you have noticed how many exercises, how many great exercises, continuous exercises have been done in the last few years because if the army does not exercise it cannot be prepared at all. We've also got sports equipment and training devices and we invest a lot in every military that people have the right places, that is, exercise devices. Termination of service and retirement of military personnel. As we immediately began at the beginning of the term of office, we started with a process of transition, rejuvenation of the Croatian Army to new command personnel, educated abroad and experience from the Homeland War. The law also regulates the time of termination of the military service with the right to certain prescribed years of life as a criterion depending on the personal act and provided that the years of retirement are fulfilled. The basic idea was to allow for a precise determination of the time of completion of the military career in order to prepare the active military personnel for transition in a timely manner and to provide the military system with the possibility, time and space for planning human potential management. And one big change that this government has made is that people can work after they finish their military career, so they can get a job and decide if they're going to go to work for 4 hours or go to work for 8 hours. Therefore, I think it is very important for our active military personnel, our other careers and their families. Therefore, these solutions contributed to the further development of the Croatian Army and the measures taken to restore the dignity of the military call resulted in an increased interest in joining the Croatian Army. For the first time since the introduction of voluntary military training, three generations of voluntary handbooks were sent in 2017 in the same calendar year and the same trend continued until today. There is also an increased interest in the example of professional soldiers, officers and officers, so we receive about 1,000 soldiers and sailors each year. And what I'm particularly pleased about, young people recognize the army as an institution of the highest trust. I can therefore responsibly confirm that we have restored the victorious Croatian army and that we have strengthened the link between the Croatian army and the Croatian people that was created during the Homeland War. As I have said many times, I want the highest body and holder of the legislative authority of the Republic of Croatia to point out that man is a gravity centre of development and upgrade of the victorious Croatian Army. A man is the most valuable part of the system. I would like to point out that I am very proud of our soldiers, officers and officers, officers and tenants, and I thank them once again for everything they do. And you saw, there is no foreign official who has come to Croatia, you have seen recently a new defence minister of the Federal Republic of Germany who is just pointing out the professionality, responsibility of Croatian soldiers and everyone wants to be on missions with Croatian soldiers. And I say, once again, I thank all of them for being real and for being the real ambassadors of Croatia whatever they do. They all selflessly and selflessly carry out their tasks that contribute to the completion of the basic missions of the Croatian Army, including: defence, territorial integrity of independence, contribution to international security and a very important support for civil institutions and our people in distress. We could see for ourselves during the past fire-fighting seasons, in floods, in other accidents, that is, every time the people needed us for help. It is therefore important that their work is properly valorised through the provisions of the proposed law. The law proposes to regulate issues relating to the reception of service, deployment and professional development of military personnel and the existing solutions are being upgraded and improved in order to further improve the defence system. Specifically personal development. In the case of personal development, the possibility of deploying an active military person to a place of establishment of two acts more than personal and abolishing restrictions on exceptional promotion when there are special merits for the service. So far, our active military personnel have been able to promote an extraordinary one during their professional career. We're erasing this restriction, if someone's great, good, professional, there's no reason why they shouldn't be a few times. Why don't we get the young major, the colonel, the brigade. We know how it was in the Homeland War and I don't see any reason, we see other modern armies not to promote excellence and I think it's very good for the current development of the Croatian Army. Furthermore, in the area of education, it is proposed to increase the age limit for sending military personnel to the required level of education in order to meet the conditions for promotion to a higher rank and promotion in the service. Also delete the deadline for issuing a specific category of officers and soldiers who have been admitted indefinitely to enable them to be granted the conditions for retirement in accordance with the allocation plan as well as for the other staff. We've got a few other officers with medium professional training, about 40, and there's no reason why we shouldn't leave these people in the service, and these are the people in the Homeland War, and there's room for them, and when the retirement conditions come up, let those guys retire. The proposed amendments create conditions for retaining existing staff and facilitate the promotion of high quality personnel. We also made it possible for some people to join the Croatian army again. We had a few examples where people went to Germany, we already invested, we already invested, and now that people have seen each other, they want to go back, they want to join the Croatian Army again. Both this law and those who went outside, who again want to return to the Croatian army, we also allow people to be re-enlisted in the Croatian Army. The decentralisation of the system, one of the fundamental steps to build functional leadership, is the decentralisation of the system. So we're giving the commanders a chance at a tactical level, not only that they can punish but also reward their own people. The fact is, they know their employees best, and they know best who does what they do. We had this possibility in the Homeland War that the commander of the company could reward his own man, that the commander of the battle could reward his own man and it was executed, everything was centered towards the branch commander, the chief of the general staff and the defence minister. We want to decentralisation things now. So Company Commanders have the power under the current law to launch and conduct a tight procedure and in order to achieve proportionality in the powers of awarding and punishing this law, it is proposed to give authority to the commander of the Company for commendation and awards. So under current law, the commander of the company, this new one, what we're proposing now, will have the opportunity to give people reward days, three prize days. The captain of the battle will have the opportunity to give five prize days. So we have to trust people, our commanders on a tactical level we have to trust. This is very important for the development of the Croatian Army, it is an experience from the Homeland War and I see no reason and in 2019 that we do not trust our people at tactical level and therefore we are going with these changes. In order to further improve the system of evaluation of military personnel, it is also proposed that the deputy commander may also be a first-guest, thus correcting the lack of logic in the assessment process that there are two-timers at certain levels who have almost no contact with the person they are assessing. A ride. Now, this is one big, important measure for Croatian soldiers. Since active military personnel cannot choose duty and place of service, it is proposed that a professional soldier who is out of his place of residence has the right to compensation for transport costs for two trips per month from the place of service to the place of residence. For the first time, such a measure is introduced and everything in that story that I said was the most important, most valuable part of the system. What does that mean? For example, an active soldier, Slavonac ours, whose place of service is an example in Knin and travels to Osijek for a weekend trip to the place of residence and the opposite has about 400 kuna for the map. If he travels two weekends a month, only to travel in a place of residence he spends about 800 kuna, it's money, it's big money that he has to take from his salary. By new, means the Department of Defence system pays him two tickets a month, times 12 24 tickets that a man can go home because he's in continuity 24 hours, sleeping in a military room, so he can leave, that he can be with his family. I think it's very, very important. I don't care about people. This measure will cover about 5,000 soldiers, we are convinced that this measure will significantly improve the quality of life of our soldiers and sailors, as well as the socially sensitive group of members of the Croatian Army. And at the end of the shooting in the service. It is something that no one wants, no one loves but we must be a state and we must, if such things happen, and give people adequate care or to those families, it is our people, our soldiers, and our families deserve the same as we have cared for the people of the Homeland War, so we must take care today of Croatian soldiers who are in the role of Croatian national interests in some missions. In view of the case that we had about the death of a Croatian soldier abroad, the need to amend the law in that part was recognised, so we prepared this final proposal in this section in accordance with the discussion in the Defence Committee and at the plenary session held by the representatives clubs. There were suggestions by MOST, there were proposals by the SDP club, therefore we included all this, all that is good, these are good suggestions and you saw in the final bill that all the good, useful things that we involved in the interest of Croatian soldiers. I would therefore like to stress that the proposed law systematically regulates the problem of exercising rights in cases of death and heavy suffering of military personnel in the service of the Croatian military. So our job is to really worry, the death of a soldier is not easy, no one wants to, but the task is to worry about it all. I can inform you that we are also in the process of admission to active military service and Ms. Stella Briski, and by the criteria it is this relationship to the family that he is not only when something happens but that our continuing task is to keep an account of it. For the implementation of this law, the funds are secured in the financial plan of the Ministry of Defence. Dear gentlemen, the MPs, we conclude that the proposed law rewards, improves and changes existing solutions to increase the functionality of our Croatian Army's readiness. We also had a debate on our parent committee, we received unanimous support on this legislative proposal, so I ask you to support the adoption of this law for the benefit of all members, members, soldiers, officers, officers of the victorious Croatian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178587	Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178588	Thank you. Dear Minister Krstičević. The improvement of the standard of living of all members of the Croatian Army and the protection of their dignity is a constant task for both you and all of us. So I want to ask you a question that the public didn't get an answer or I haven't seen him about that ugly act at Zemunik War Port when the pilots were carrying arms smugglers, so a specific question, it's about necessity and protection of the dignity of the winning army. Did the pilots transport smugglers because they had low salaries and poor living standards or acted in advance in the interest of another force, a state hostile to the Croatian Army and the Republic of Croatia? And why didn't anyone carry any concussions from the Military Intelligence Service, and if you please tell her because I didn't read it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178589	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178590	Dear Parliamentarian. You asked a question, I'd say you've seen such a one case, it's not a good case, we don't approve of it. I want to repeat that the vast majority of Croatian soldiers, officers, officers, pilots, Canadians, Air Tractors, helicopter pilots, MiGs are honorable people, these are our heroes in continuity, boys who do great work in continuity. Now that I'm a minister, when I wasn't, when other people were ministers I think the Croatian Army is proud, Baza Zemunik is proud of the Croatian Army. Next week on that base will be NATO as well. And as for these guys who did it, you saw that we changed everything, we gave a message to everyone, don't do it, they have courts that need to dissipate and determine each and every one of them's responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178591	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178592	Thank you very much. Minister, very... The Croatian soldier, a victorious Croatian soldier, deserves everything that goes to the benefit of the Croatian soldier, and should strive for the Croatian soldier to have the same conditions as any other in the developed members of NATO soldiers. I would just ask you in line with this, we know the transfer of armies that are both in Sinj and other areas along the border area, we have a law on police where the Croatian military can help our police in police affairs where the police in the border area are here in my area, in your area where illegal migrants enter and do great damage to our citizens where personal security and material security are threatened. Did you get a call from the police minister to help get illegal migrants into the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178593	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178594	Dear Representative Bulj. As far as your question is concerned, I didn't get it, but I can tell as far as the Croatian Army is concerned, the Croatian Army has all scouted the entire border. We know the limit, we know the complete situation in this part of the jurisdiction is the MUP. I think our officers are doing a great job, and the Croatian Army is always ready to help, we follow the situation and together tomorrow with the Croatian police even better and more effectively do it. Therefore, here is the Croatian soldier who is ready for the task when evaluations are such that such a thing should happen. The law has been passed, the law we have therefore the security of our people is crucial, important and it is the responsibility of all of us and our people citizens must feel safe, and the Croatian Army is a guarantee of peace and security.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178595	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first club to report for participation in the debate is the HDZ Representatives' Club, on their behalf, will speak representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178596	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well before us is the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Service in the Armed Forces, which continues to systematically improve the status of Croatian soldiers, officers, officers after all the years of the devastations that have occurred in the Croatian Army, from demeaning to being denied in food, clothing, supply, transport and all that has been bad in the past three years, and during these 3 years, the status of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers has been systematically improved. The norm has been evened, and this final bill further improves their status, work, equipment, as well as concern and concern in a material way. In recent times, we have seen that there have been important changes in the care of man as an important factor and factor in the Croatian Army because man is in the focus of the interests and interests of their superiors, as well as of the ministries, as well as of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Without man, there is no Croatian army, there is no management of systems, there is no management of techniques, and its satisfaction and equipment, as well as pay, as well as equality in nutrition, clothing and everything else makes him actually satisfied, happy and motivated to carry out tasks that are of strategic interest to the security of the Republic of Croatia, but also for missions and missions and missions, as well as operations carried out by the Croatian Army as part of allies in the NATO alliance. I believe that all clubs recognize today that this is a significant progress that is taking place through these changes and additions to the service law and we can say that the HDZ Club unreservedly supports this improvement of the system as well as systematic monitoring of all the shortcomings that have occurred or that appear in the system so that there are no dissatisfactions, errors, errors or deviations. I believe that such a bill that, in detail, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister clearly and unequivocally pointed out everything that is happening, should not be repeated, should not waste time, but rather adopt such a proposal to amend and supplement the law as soon as possible so that such legal solutions, which are extremely good and which are fixed at first reading in certain segments where certain shortcomings have been observed, but certainly does not refer to the wish to equate Croatian soldiers in the current system with defenders from the Homeland War. This is what is an attempt to create in public a re-controversy among Croatian citizens, with defenders and the Croatian military, which is actually impossible. The Croatian defenders primarily appreciate Croatian soldiers, officers and officers because they themselves were members of the Croatian police, so it is an impossible mission that has been tried to equalise the victim in the Croatian military in missions or operations with the status of Croatian defenders, that is, what we must remove because in the first reading there were many inscriptions, comments, debates, what is actually totally wrongly negative in the law, there is no saying or any indication that the law would be equalising or giving the Croatian current soldier the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War. This was wrongly perceived, and now this is clearly defined in the new law through 14 points of one article, clearly declared rights which are exercised by every soldier who suffers in missions, operations or in Croatia at exercises or in the service, not by his own fault. That's what we can do for a little while. These system-accumulated problems created in the Croatian Army are being solved, not taking care of the Croatian soldier, Croatian officer and officer. I believe that you have been able to listen in recent times, as well as read the remarks that came from the Croatian Army that it is unbalanced from nutrition to full of clothing, shoes and all technical and material means. Now it is a completely different situation, and I think that the system is absolutely controlled and taken care of by a man so that he can be equipped and paid and satisfied, and also by the Croatian handbook or that volunteer soldier who volunteered to join the Croatian Army to have an incentive for that service that could later become a professional service. The system of evaluation and evaluation has been evened out because it was only possible for almost punishment once in a career to be possible in one act, at one time progressed, it has now been changed, it is possible that the level of commanders of the company that best knows those who are the direct performers of the task is the one who proposes promotion and evaluation, and that is the best way to achieve stimulation for those who are experts in their tasks and calls so that they can advance both quickly and in quality and become officers, but also officers in the Armed Forces service, which is extremely important because as you do not stimulate those who are working, who expand their knowledge continuously and thoroughly, of course that man will seek some other job and interest, therefore, ministers, these are the best solutions that you have put into the proposals of this law so that those who operate the system at lower levels, clearly have the reasons and justifications to give more time to improve their time and time to the soldiers, if they show up to time, or time to time to time to time to time, time to time to time to time to time to time, to time to time to time to time, to time to time to time to time to time to time to time, to time to time to time to time to time to time, to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time, to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time, to time to time to time to time to time, to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time, to time to time to time to time to time to time, to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to time to the to time to the to time to the to the to the to time to time to time to time to the to time to time to the to the to time to time to time to the to time to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to time to the to the to the to the to the to time, to time to time to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the to the soldiers, to The proposed law develops certain solutions in terms of improving or amending these solutions are complemented in a different way, for better quality support for further development of the defence portfolio. This law proposes amendments so that the officers are not limited to the conduct of leadership duties which has so far been a practice to 4 years, this would reduce the number of commanding officer duties to which the deployment obligation has so far been applied with a time limit of 4 years. Taking into account the principle of equal opportunities that I have already talked about and the opportunities for equal treatment, it is necessary to increase the age limit for training staff to be referred to in order to enable them to meet the conditions for promotion in the higher rank and promotion in the service. The proposed law changes the restriction of extraordinary promotions that I have already talked about with the intention of further improvement in the system, evaluation of active military persons by law and that the deputy commander may be the first assessor. This corrects the illogical nature of the evaluation process that at certain working levels other assessors of persons who have almost no contact with the persons who evaluate them have been evaluated almost in their mind or in someone’s personal opinion there has been an evaluation. Since the commanders of the company have powers under the applicable law for the launch and conduct of tight procedures, due to strict errors in order to achieve proportionality in powers and rewards and punishment, this law proposes giving authority to the commander of the company for praise and rewards. This law also regulates the problem of serious suffering that I have spoken about and we hope that there will be no such extraordinary events in which there will be suffering, injury, severe wounding or death, not God, in order to use these 14 points of the article of the law which discusses the problem of serious suffering in the Croatian Army. It is now covered by the law, and I think it will reflect well on those who are, yet there is an accident in the service, and to be and have that security, the law is well-organized. In order to ensure equality between the categories of soldiers, officers and the implementation of the measures of a policy of opportunity, it is proposed that the right to compensation for the costs of transport for soldiers, the active military personnel who remain in the category of soldiers have a choice of acceptance of accommodation in a military location and, if refused, have no other right. The fact is that the active soldiers whose place of residence is quite far from the location of the schedule have the need to visit the family or visit the house or apartment, although they tend to be in the majority of soldiers, officers and officers near the place of military duty, this is the best solution both the nearest and the motivation and the readiness and everything else necessary, I think these are the experiences that were the best working, working and operating experience from the Homeland War. We believe that the proposed law goes in the direction of further improving the status of this specific service and, in addition to the measures proposed, we propose that this law too, it is possible to introduce support for the military service to have an additional financial impact with this stimulation to allow twice a month payment of the ticket for those who are more than 50 km from the place of residence. Since active military personnel cannot choose duties and place of service, for example The soldier from Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Zagora or Split is in service in Vinkovci or vice versa, for them such measures should be imposed. The HDZ Club, through all that we have discussed in the first reading, believes this is very good changes and additions to the laws that will contribute to further improving the status of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers. We welcome the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws and hope that, in the future, for all those observed shortcomings, any changes and additions will come well, and that the representatives' clubs will recognise that the Ministry and Ministers and, together with their employees and services, will keep an eye on the development of the Armed Forces so that standards are as close as possible to those in the NATO system so that both the equipment and the finance standards are also as close as possible to that of the Ministry and the goal is to ensure in the budget 2% of GDP for the financing of all activities in the NATO system in order to be equipped and to be equal to all segments with the standards set out in the alliance in which we belong, therefore, we thank here once again for the concrete measures adopted through this law and we believe that further performance in monitoring of decisions will make the Croatian army safe and secure pillar of Croatia's homeland. Security is primarily our borders but also our alliance in which we operate and in which it is shown that Croatian soldiers are in every respect praised by all those NATO alliances especially by Americans with whom they carry out missions, operations but also by exercises in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as other countries. The assistance provided by the Croatian military to Croatian citizens as well as the citizens of other countries that I do not speak, as in fact the commitment to help but also the equipment that will certainly be much greater and more quality in the future, but the love of service and loyalty, fidelity, however, are certainly those qualifications that make Croatian soldiers as prescribed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178597	Thanks, time's up, thanks. Now we move forward with the agenda. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists also called for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178599	Thank you very much. Honorable ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to the Armed Forces and the Croatian Army, then I always personally have a special respect for it, of course when we talk about the Croatian soldier, we always have to go back to how our Armed Forces were created. Armed forces, back at that time, then I was also a participant, we were in rabatins, jeans I personally in Vrlica, in that area, then it was... from the Croatian police, Croatian defence forces HOS, Croatian military, nuclearus of today's Armed Forces and we must never forget that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And everything that is positive in the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to the law and the Croatian soldier, is deserved by a victorious Croatian soldier and only a victorious Croatian soldier. Freedom was brought to the Croatian people by the victory of a Croatian soldier who was unarmed with force, against a large Serb aggressor. Literally young men unarmed and young. And I am proud to watch when the Croatian soldier is dressed, equipped, when the Croatian soldier is placed properly, when he is in the service of the people, in the service of security, in the service of economic development, in the service of the survival of the Croatian people in these areas and I will always speak of the Croatian soldier because the Croatian soldier deserves it. Of course, when we talk about everything that is happening now in the Republic of Croatia, of course we should also talk about this Service Act, the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, that what is positive and what we said in the first reading should be changed by the majority because everything has been changed, i.e. Consistent. I believe that everything we do should go towards it if the Croatian soldier is on a mission to have the same conditions and to tend and pay the same as the American soldiers, as the German soldiers have, and we need to do everything. According to this, the Croatian soldier is a victorious soldier. There are few armies like the Croatian army, few. No such army, the Croatian army in one day got rid of the Serbian occupier, the strong force, the powerful, one fantastic operation "Storm". And we need to get that out of this pay phone and we need to talk all together. Because in the Croatian Army they were all, we were all complicated and we were all together for an independent Republic. And not only in the Republic of Croatia, we prevented, the Croatian soldier stopped the aggressor and in BiH such as Ratko Mladic, a great Serb, such as Ratko Mladic to commit crimes in the Bihac area, what was in Srebrenica would be minor to what was done. Many people have given, our defenders, our soldiers our lives. Therefore, this law moves the borders, it moves the borders, it goes better. In the Armed Forces, a Croatian soldier is moving, things are moving. Enough after the Homeland War of Humiliation, the persecution of prominent Croatian defenders, Croatian generals, the arrest of Sheksova, I will always repeat, locate, arrest, transfer, process. These are the most embarrassing roars that are directed towards the leaders of the Croatian Army, therefore time, but unfortunately these people who have said these things are today run by the Croatian, unfortunately and ruling party. Therefore, in this law I see that the Croatian soldier is returned to what was after the Homeland War, the training is returning, the leaders, the officers, returning what was once, and in the system of humiliation there was no food in that period before, there was no, literally, if they had no 5 kuna, they couldn't have a soldier in the restaurant, the guard pays back. Although, while I was a soldier, I was a soldier for 17 years, and they weren't, but there were other times. But now a Croatian soldier must be paid for what he has because that soldier must be, a soldier is not work and work alone. The Croatian soldier is above, he's calling. The Croatian Army is calling. You have to be a soldier for 24 hours, and I accept that as something good. It is good that the safety of a Croatian soldier, a professional soldier who no longer has that uncertainty after one contract, is losing his fear that his contract will not be extended. It is good for the Croatian soldier and his security to remain in the active military service, to be a professional soldier. Of course, this part is also praised, but should be sought, if possible, by the new distribution of the Croatian Army, i.e. New accommodation to save as much as possible, and that was the point one, to say, from Sinj or Imotski travels to Benkovac, today we have this opportunity for these people to work in this area, which has reduced costs in fact to the MORH and the Croatian military, and that's good. I believe that training, meaning training of Croatian soldiers, is defined here, of course this award, training and this award I agree that it should be decentralised, i.e. To bring down those directly connected to the soldier, the officer, it's at the level of the company because it's positive. Of course, there are officers who are young and progresses, who are young and who are professional, who can be an example of Croatian soldiers, as said Minister General Krsticevic, who can progress without these restrictions to be, I think, one day being an improvement during his career. So, as far as this is concerned, and of course, it's good that extended deadlines are for officers from the Homeland War. They are a symbol, unfortunately less and less, of the years gone, because those values that they can offer togetherness, patriotism, and the communities, the teamwork that was in the Croatian Army, that victorious spirit because we proved that much less unarmed because I repeat, whenever I talk about this topic, I return to that time of great Serbian aggression, at the beginning of the Homeland War when we were full of bullets, full of motivation for freedom. Of course, we were much younger, I was then, 72 years old, not even 19 years old, but I remember that in rabatins and with weapons literally hunting, we were not afraid to stand before this enemy tank, so I now think that Croatian values need these officers, who were left behind, still allow us to carry on as long as possible because Croatia, a Croatian soldier from that time, can convey great knowledge. It is good that the Croatian Army reserves include people from that time and transfer their knowledge in certain interval times, I talked to my fellow fighters. They convey their knowledge to Croatian soldiers and those values that were adorned by Croatian soldiers, the victorious Croatian soldier. The Croatian military in this, meaning when we talk about the Croatian army on missions, I believe that the Croatian soldier must be equipped, dressed as those from other countries. I believe that it must have the same conditions, the same pay, but I also believe that the law we brought here in 2016 on the police, if we go to protect, I don't know, borders in other countries, that the Croatian soldier has the ability, which is the minister and answered, that he is capable, trained, ready to protect the Croatian border as, of course, in accordance with the law we have voted here, to protect the security of citizens and their property. I'm a witness that people are terrified of, and they have huge damage, they don't feel safe in the border area, here I was in your area, down in the area of Vrgorac, where a man stole a vehicle at 2 o'clock. And I agree that our police force, 6 thousand police officers are ready, trained and doing their job well, but the fact is that we have a legal possibility because of the size of the border that we should involve the army, if we involve the military because the Police Act allows it. And you're like a minister, as Deputy Prime Minister, as a man who's in the system and national security, I mean the National Security Council. I also call on the President of the Republic to call on the National Security Council because people in the border area don't feel safe. And I think that this armed forces schedule that has now moved both Sinj and Ploče and all that needs to be done is to help the Croatian police carry out border protection police services for the safety of our citizens in the area, as well as the security of their property. Now the question is, for a stolen car stolen by a migrant from the garage at two o'clock, he and his wife and a small child lived. Who's gonna pay for that? So we have to secure borders so we don't have illegal migrants threatening the safety of our fellow citizens. If this is what other countries that are neighbouring us do, so why don't we use that legal opportunity to help our Croatian army, our Croatian army helps with these jobs. I've just said positive things about the law, of course now that if we have more time to turn around about some things that I think need to be fixed, it means to secure our border with material and technical means, I'm sorry that Coast Guard ships aren't finished yet except for one, it's not continuity... And only these governments, of course, are continuity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am sorry that the Croatian Army has not solved its ability, these are what it has not solved so far means a problem with fighter planes and I am afraid that it will not lose Croatian Air Force in the long term, I am sorry what it is in 2015 or before 2014, what these planes are sent to Ukraine i.e. The MiGs, sent to Ukraine, literally correct, which were returned at that time in parts, was scrawnyly paid, I once said here when the former prime minister was, that they were returned to the carillo in parts and they were scrawnyly paid. I am now sorry Ministers that you have not decided that the Croatian Army is getting planes, which is really, I don't know, why I now care, I expect that the Croatian Army does not lose that capacity, that the Croatian Air Force deserves to have the best fighter planes not for the sole purpose of war but for the security of economic development, economic development, because of course it provides other aspects of development. When they mention Patrija, I immediately creep out, immediately comes to mind Stipe Mesic and Patria and that team around him, and I immediately feel bad about how money was drawn from the Croatian army by those who often called the Croatian army that was demoted by the Croatian army and why we don't have those vehicles equipped, very little who was to answer for it. So by this final proposal of the law, I believe that better standards will be achieved but I believe that eventually the Croatian soldier will return to the people what he deserves, the people trust the Croatian army, I repeat, the Croatian soldier, we must stick to him and to his safety, especially I am glad that this law opened the possibility of the return of the Croatian soldier who left for example. Germany. This is one of the measures I hear little from this government that has what it has to come back and I have to say, it's not so, but the Croatian soldier who went to Germany, who is trained either an officer or an officer, has them because I know, we need to enable him to return to the Croatian army system and it's also one of the demographic measures because there are no more emigrations. Enough of the emigration because when the water outside is not exactly like that, and that is why I call on all of them to lift up, I call on all those Croatian soldiers, officers and officers who are trained, who are patriots, who can help the Croatian military and the whole society to see, by the basis of this law they all return to the Croatian army because the Croatian army needs such people and I believe that this law moves the barriers to better for Croatian soldiers but I hope that one day the Croatian soldier will be, will have the same conditions and standards as pay and all the necessary material conditions as American and German and will be proud of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178600	Thank you. Before we go any further, I would like to welcome the students of Sibenik Veleučite which are currently at the gallery. After the representative of the Most, the SDP's Club of Representatives signed up for participation in the debate, the representative Franco Vidovic will speak on their behalf, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178601	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Minister with my colleagues. So we said at the first reading that in principle the law is fine, that it's good, but then we had one dispute that we solved at the end and we solved it positively as I see it and that's what's good in this law, so, in order for there to be no confusion, we're going to support this law as well as on the board. As for the suffering of soldiers, yes, the truth is, the garbage of soldiers, the loss of soldiers, the wounding of soldiers is a difficult topic, it's a painful topic, but unfortunately, it's a subject that is closely linked to the profession after all. As we have said, in our first reading, we believe that the Croatian military is a modern army, that there is a strong enough system within the framework of the Ministry of Interior, so if you want the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it can develop its legal solutions without any problem and based on the fact that it should not be attached to the Homeland War Defence Act, not because of what some have realized here to put some kind of wedge, god save, after all, the Croatian army was created on the Homeland War and on the foundations of the Homeland War, therefore not only because of the future of the Croatian army and what is going on and what is going to happen. It is perfectly clear to me that under the conditions of increasing the budget of the state, then according to this and increasing the budget of the MORH, increasing both the material costs, and it is good that some of these costs go directly to the soldiers, so we have no problem with that either. As far as rewarding is concerned, yes, it's okay that the captains of the company and then everyone up there have the possibility, because they're the first operatives, they're in the field, they know how a soldier breathes because they're in daily contact with them and ultimately they're part of the building of authority, they can punish them, so far they can only punish them if I'm not wrong, they can punish you, but they can reward you, so it's such a system. That system is, there would disagree with you ministers this when you expose yourself, that system itself is centralised, so you've transferred powers to a lower level, I wouldn't call it decentralisation of the system because I don't need the military to decentralize. Why would they decentralize her? The army must be centralized. In addition, it is a good thing, I have seen that you have also paid attention to the deficiting personnel or doctors immediately upon joining the Croatian army to have an act of major, if I am not mistaken, and their working life lasts longer than a century of soldiers, so it lasts until 65. What I'm interested in is now the question that I am telling you, what about the people who teach at the Croatian Military School, who are employed in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia? So do they have equal treatment or if they don't, then they should really think if they perform the professor's duty or if they're chosen in the professor's chamber then they should think about staying in the service for a long time because such people need us to assume? Now what's a grudge, and what we've supported in our time when we've changed the Defense Act, is that I don't see a good reason, but I really don't see that we're changing Article 8 of the existing law or article on Armed Forces Day and Branch Days. I've already talked about it in the previous Coast Guard debate, there's no point in me repeating myself over and over again, but really Article 7. The Republic of Croatia recognises the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as a defence force in the Republic of Croatia, so it is a specific name of the defence force in the Republic of Croatia. We agreed at the time when the amendments to the Law on Defence were that we all call the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a speech often times the Croatian Army and I don't mind it at all, but because of consistency we must stick to what it is, so the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are in the Constitution. Now it seems to me, and I don't know silly, to change the Day of Armed Forces in the day of the Croatian Army and the days of the branch, and then everything according to that, so it doesn't comply with the Constitution. If we already have a problem with the name Armed Forces, I don't have it as I have no problem with the name Croatian Army, let's change the Constitution. The laws must comply with the Constitution. So, anyway, I would ask you just to answer this question about the professor on HVU however we may be, because he is facing the Croatian soldier and because it includes suffering, and we know that we have such a sad situation, we will support this law as we promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178602	The Minister on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178603	Dear Parliamentarian Mr. Franco Vidovic, thank you very much. I am pleased to hear that the SDP will also support this law which is strategically important for the Croatian Army and I always say the issue of defence and national security is a supersede issue and each of us must take care of it. And you have seen these amendments and additions to the Service Act that are in the position of our army being even stronger, even more powerful, and that is the ultimate goal of all of us who are now responsible for the Croatian Army. And I am glad that even from the presentation of my comrade Mr Mira Bulj that from his position and MOST, this law has the right support and that you speak well of the Croatian soldier, officer and officer, this is what people deserve throughout Croatia. And as for this first part of yours about the Croatian Military School and that people can work, so we'll do everything we can to make people work. Whoever's high-quality, good, great professor has no reason we'll always have ways to get these people to work. You know that we are now in the process of preparing the law it will be in 2020 that we are doing a transformation of the Croatian Military University to the University of Defence and Security. I think the time has finally come for Croatia to have the University of Defence and Security. Next year we mark 30 years of Croatian state. There are 8 universities in Croatia, I see no reason not to be the University of Defence and Security in support of a strong Croatian army, and we will tie this university to other universities in the west from the American, Israeli, German, French and be very proud of the Croatian Army. As for this one of yours or the dilemma or the fact that a constitution does not respect the Constitution, we respect the Constitution very much. The Constitution says the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in law also writes the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia so that's the full name that stays meaning. However, we have put that short name, so that can be used the short name is the Croatian Army. Why did we do that? Well, because that's what the Croatian people feel. This army was not inherited, it was created in the Homeland War and I see no reason not to be called the Croatian Army, the Slovenian Army is called the Slovenian Army, the Serbian Army is called the Serbian Army, I see no reason not to be, because there is a Croatian soldier who loves it when called a Croatian soldier, the Croatian Army and all of it. It's a brand, it's a value, a winning Croatian army and it's all expensive. So, here on, everything is legally laid down, we respect the Constitution, we have to respect the Constitution and it means it allows, so the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is a full name, the shortened name of the Croatian Army in a function of security, a strong, powerful Croatian army and that is our responsibility, that is our task, and from the position of this Government I am glad that we have managed in some way to strengthen this name, is this name one identity in the process of creating the Croatian Army and something particularly connected this one in the Croatian people and here I am saying, our part is glad that we have finally now and agreed to these changes and additions that it is now a closed story and I hope that no one will change it. Now, if someone's really insinuating it or getting in the way of it, and listen to this one, it's a democratic right. We live in a democratic society, but here I think that the vast majority of Croatian soldiers with the name Croatian Army are feeling nice and comfortable and are all in it. And in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, that's good, that's the Constitution, and here's what we respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178604	Representative Franco Vidovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178605	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I have the impression that we haven't understood each other very well. So, I asked you when you went to the professor's retirement, not if he'd work, I know he'd work, but did we think about extending them like a civilian working age? That's what I asked you about, not to go in line with the act of retirement with 60, 57, etc. A year, but to extend their working life like we did with doctors. As far as the name of the Croatian Army is concerned, you know well that I have no problem with that name, not even the smallest, not too close. So I'm just telling you, what, this is the law, so the laws must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In my view, in this law, I see no reason why they would change the Day of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the days of the Croatian Army. I don't have any arguments, okay, I can accept your thinking but I'm not, don't hold that water, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178606	The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Representative Miro Bulj also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178607	Well, I would just like to say it one more time, and I should often say that the Croatian soldier is a great name and that the Croatian soldier continued in the Homeland War. Yes, Armed Forces, but the Croatian soldier was created by police, directors, Croatian defence forces HOS and Croatian soldiers of reserve and professional troops, and I believe that the Croatian soldier is proud and honored of the Croatian people because the Croatian soldier is a victorious soldier the world of which he did not have in the last century after World War II. He had the most brilliant operations against the much more armed and one of the most armed enemies of the Velco-Serbian Chetnik aggressor and after the 9th century the Croatian soldier guaranteed freedom to the Croatian people and independence. Therefore, the Croatian soldier, the Croatian army is I think one of the most appropriate and fairest names it can be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178608	Thank you. The club of HNS representatives also applied for participation in the debate, on their behalf will be spoke by representative Bozica Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178609	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I must point out that in the first reading, all members of the HNS Club supported the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we will also support it as a final proposal in the second reading, which is more so because the observed remarks and suggestions from the first reading that have actually led to the improvement of this law. In his presentation, the minister really explained in detail what it is necessary to do, and which is why the proposal for this law that we have today is ahead of us. He mentioned several times that man is the most important part of the system and that the goal of this improvement is to involve as many quality people in the system as possible and to keep people in that system from leaving. So these changes are about both material things and organisational but it brings a lot of improvements, and I'm going to single out only some of which are why we support this law, and we've heard everything really in detail. So this suggests a fairer status positioning of officers who are doctors of medicine, specialists of the medical branch, and for their act a major act is proposed, and a working age for them is possible to be longer. We have further where the amendment is proposed not to limit the officers' conduct of leadership duties to 4 years, as we have so far had the case that it was limited to 4 years, with the possibility of an extension of 2 years. We also have a proposal to raise the age limit for sending employees to a successive and growing education in order to allow them to meet the conditions for promotion in a higher rank and promotion in the ministry. It is proposed to give authority to the commander of the company for praises and awards. So there's a way of decentralizing, we've heard some thinking that it's not the happiest solution, but we at the club think this is a good solution. In order to ensure equality between the categories of soldiers and sailors of officers and the implementation of the measures of the policy of opportunity, it is proposed to extend the right to compensation for the costs of transport for soldiers, which we heard in a detailed explanation from the minister who is indeed both picturesque and for example explained it. It is also proposed to raise years of age as one of the conditions to refer to schooling since there are a certain part of the officers and officers who, for objective reasons, have crossed the age limit for sending us to school for reasons of need of service, temporary incompetence, prevention, maternity leave, and it is possible to refer them to further schooling after schooling, which would be in professional development standards. We have also heard that the return of Croatian soldiers who have exited the system is possible. They are allowed, namely to return to that system, which so far has not been possible, and what I have left in this presentation of the minister is really staying and ringing in my ears all the time, man is the most important part of this system, and therefore all that, every law that is passed to improve the status of that system, these people are the law that everyone should accept. Once again, we at the HNS Club will support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178610	Thank you. MP Ljubica Maksimchuk has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178611	Thank you very much, Vice-President of HS, Your Honor, Ministers with Associates. Armed forces protect the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia, participate in international humanitarian and other actions. These are the third amendments and additions to the Law on Armed Forces in the term of office of this government which aim, of course, to stop the budget drop, as the minister said in his introduction and said in the term of the government, he was also stopped. Standards and living conditions of soldiers, officers and officers have been improved, accommodation and work facilities have been increased, military personnel have been increased for security, duty, field work. What the minister particularly apostrophe, but also what I commend, is that twice during the month, transportation is paid for for those soldiers who are outside their place of residence, of course, which will greatly help all those active military personnel. What I would especially like to commend, and what this government and the minister have spent, is the introduction of a late reception for top athletes, i.e. over the prescribed age. Such a solution is also proposed for Dr. medicine because of their deficit in the system, so here I am interested in how much it is after these changes of interest and what the situation is now with these top athletes and doctors. Positive perception, promotion of a military call, promotion of the value of the Homeland War will surely lead and increase the interest of young people in the Croatian army, increase the safety of the population, of course, that is also the biggest concern and responsibility. The answer to the security challenges we all see best the engagement of the Croatian Army when needed, and these are fires, floods, all those natural disasters, but also those disasters that come from climate change. We returned the armed forces to Vukovar, Sinj, Varazdin, Ploče, Udbin and Pula, which the minister of course stressed in his debate. The process of rejuvenation of the Armed Forces to the new command staff is certainly commendable and what my predecessors have emphasized, which is this article. 34.b which the active military person, whose service stopped on a personal request with an honorable discharge, can return to the service, so here, I wonder if there are any interested and how much interest he has in returning. All these amendments and additions to the law bring positive shifts in both material and other aspects when it comes to Croatian soldiers, officers and officers. And as we are my predecessors, but also the minister said, that the issue of defence and national security is a supersede issue, therefore, because of all these positive shifts, I welcome and commend the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178612	Representative Nenad Stazic also reported for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178613	Thank you, Vice President. One good fact is that the Croatian Army is an institution that enjoys the highest trust among citizens. That's good. It is good, it means that, it is one professional army that performs all its tasks in accordance with the law according to its call and it would be good for other institutions to enjoy such trust as the Croatian Army does. Both trust and professionalising the military should continue to work. That job is never done, there's no end to it. I say, I suggest you move your army away from the Catholic Church. Why? Because members of the Croatian Army are not only members of the Catholic Church, and there are members of other confesions, there are atheists, there are also agnostics, and the task of soldiers is not to be a good Catholic but to be a good soldier. So if we point out one religion, then we kind of demean these others, we don't even point them out, and I think that would mean further professionalization of the military. As for that trust, you do know that trust is being violated in some incidents, as was the case with these pilots. The military is transporting arms traffickers in helicopters, and then police are producing fake passports for Serbian criminals, so ministers can't fill out property cards. So how does the ministry run if you can't fill out the property card? So HDZ's on a state plane, a government plane, are traveling to a party rally in Helsinki, and the signing stand for the President of the Republic is falsifying signatures, all of which is destroying trust in the institutions of the system. You said this was one limited incident, so clearly there was a limited incident, clearly it was and I think you did the right thing, retired the commander, punished the entire chain of command, that's how it should be. But of course it's an individual excess, the only question is how is it possible to get to it at all. And I wonder what the faiths of those who carried you in a helicopter are those arms traffickers. Now, I will not praise what is good in this law there is much good, but I will tell you one comment in view of Article 131.b which my colleague Djakic obviously did not read or understood. "A military person who, without his own fault, has been seriously wounded or seriously injured in the service of armed forces and who has suffered certain damages is exercising certain rights in the scope and in the manner and procedure before the authorities of the prescribed law establishing the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War." I don't think this is a good connection. If someone has been injured, wounded, has suffered in the performance of their duties in the Croatian Army, of course they deserve the protection of society, the full protection of society, and there is no one against it, but why tie it now to the rights of the Homeland War defender because then why not the other, why not a policeman, why not anyone who gets hurt at work? Look at a professional soldier, a modern soldier, a modern soldier, and especially tomorrow, a soldier for five years, for ten years, it's a profession, he voluntarily decided to do a certain job for her. And when he gets hurt at work, so why should he be in a different position than anyone else who gets hurt at work and does his job, and before the Constitution, we must all be equal, at least that's what the Constitution says. Or let us leave it in this law and extend it to all other laws, for then we shall be righteous, so that whenever anyone experiences any suffering, let him also be treated as a warrior of the Homeland War. But look, it wouldn't even be illogical because in the Homeland War there were people in the battle lines with guns in their hands, they were the ones who were in the background that worked, who supported that fight in a different way. And that baker who made bread for the front and the journalist who was reporting from the battlefield like me, editors at Radio Zagreb at that time or Croatian Radio already changed the name, TV in the newspaper they all contributed. Well, it's not just the defenses in the fighting sector, so it's dr. Hebrang, who wasn't in the fighting sector, he organized the Medical Services, I think a lot of people took part in it, so let's extend those rights to them and at least we'll be just. I advise you to say he said Bulj, being a soldier it's not a job, it's an invitation, but being a doctor is a call and being a teacher is a call and being a painter is a call and being a poet is a call, so not everyone can't be a poet. Well, now if we have different and very fake calls and they're all important to Croatia, they're all for the country. And a good painter is important to a country as important and a good soldier then we take a step towards righteousness, we make a step towards the Constitution in the equality of all. You solve this with an amendment to the government, you sort it out, so to solve it in a different way, let it have full protection, but full. We can't leave him without protection, but don't do it this way because I'm deeply convinced that this way is not deliberate, not intentional, you weren't mean, not on purpose, but it's bad, it's a bad example, you should correct it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178614	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178615	A long time ago, an army in Podvinj killed priest Zivkovic, who, to this day, I don't know where his grave is. Why would I bring that up? So because some are always bothered by the rosary, the Catholic Church bothers, so at any time and space that is the same, time is changing still trying to destroy what has failed to destroy in some previous wars. We'll mention the helicopters then, since the campaign, I'll commend the work of a candidate in a campaign that officially flew from Zagreb to Rijeka to Grobnik, where he was waiting for an official car with an escort and ran off in an unknown direction and also moving furniture from Zagreb to Dubrovnik with It's not a helicopter. [[Intruder: Thank you]] No one's billing. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178616	Time's up, thanks. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178617	There is no one against the Catholic Church, but the Catholic Church has one letter, the army has a completely different mission, as a doctor has his own mission to treat the sick, and you know there are such diseases where, that a man is gravely ill and that nothing hurts him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178618	The answer to the replica is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178619	Art. In 238, a representative in response to my replica insulted me in a way that he was talking about some kind of illness that only he saw, but I would recommend a more detailed examination of someone than an ordinary doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178620	There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178621	Art. The 33rd session, this wasn't any violation of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't even mention my colleague's name, or last name, that he recognized himself in one of my sentences, so it's really not my problem, you should have warned him that we were.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178622	Are you both done? If it is, we'll move on. Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported for individual participation in the debate, he is missing, losing his right to speak. Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic has the possibility of a final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178623	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable parliamentary representatives, at the end of today's presentation and all these debates, and I can thank all of you for the person who took part in the debates and for all of this as much support as I see, and by the amendments and additions of the Service Act that we have received today in this HS. What's our basic task is to strengthen the HV, you've seen it, and our soldiers, officers and officers, officers and tenants know that we've restored, we've restored the HV in this 3rd year. We have strengthened the link between the military and the people created in the homeland war, and you have seen that the Republic of Croatia keeps a powerful and powerful HV and this today, today's discussion of the amendments to the supplement and the Service Act is about to once again strengthen the rights and standards of our soldiers, officers and officers, and these very changes and additions of the Service Act, we will make it possible and this is our task and it is our responsibility, so that in that part, I am not repeating myself again, so thank you very much, we are going in the right direction, we are strengthening HV, modernizing, you have seen that in the first 3rd year. We've been working on people, most people, restoring material rights to our people, bringing back people and field supplement and watchdogs, so we've brought them food, so we've seen a lot of quiet, concrete measures to our people so our man can be even more satisfied and normal, we've increased interest in HV, we've changed the operating schedule of HV, we've received an army closer to some border areas so that we can always be available to our people and that we can always help and you've seen that we've now gone a little further and into modernizing and equipping food, but the soldier is the key, however, the soldier with no equipment, means, weapons, sure he can't do his job, so here from helicopter remonters, so to new now a few helicopters and all these other necessary means. Clearly, the story of security is very important, if there is no security then there is no, then there is no economy, no economy, no matter what is important, there is a clear need to take care of all other restaurants in the Republic. In the end, we had and here was the debate of our esteemed representative, Mr. Stazic, from the position of HV, or that the HV should be removed from the Catholic Church. In my term, this will not happen, so HV, I repeat again, was created in the Homeland War, we all know together that a brutal large-scale aggression against the Republic of Serbia was committed, at the time when brutal large-serb aggression was committed, when the Republic of Serbia was attacked, we did not have an HV, but we had volunteers then, we had the first Croatian president who in time with his associates, with the team, set up at that installation in Kranjčević's 28.5. HV and praise to dear God we managed to defend ourselves, it was not easy, the great sacrifice was paid for Croatian freedom, 15 000 young people, over 60,000 wounded people, because of these people today we are here, thanks to these people and other Croatian defenders we live in peace and freedom today and that is reality, that is, the fact, no Croatian soldier has gone to Serbia, we have defended our own, and trust me then that much faith has helped us and today helps the Croatian soldier faith. Today the Croatian soldier is helped by this relationship with the Catholic Church, today the Croatian soldier is assisted by the rosary and every Croatian soldier, there is no Croatian soldier who did not carry the rosary, so here I am wearing it today, always with me, the rosary, it is important, it needs in that part. So we have a military office, we have our bishop, the chaplains and they are also important in the mosaic of the strength of the Croatian soldier, so there is no strong Croatian soldier without the support of the family, the Croatian soldier has, must have top equipment, weapons, but it is a very important spiritual story. It is a very important long story of the Croatian soldier and it is very important that all modern armies in the world have it. All modern armies in the world have this good relationship. As far as national minorities are concerned, all national minorities are the same national wealth. Therefore, within the Croatian Army, we allow everyone, there is no national minority, a member of the national minority who today in the Croatian Army, we have such members and members, there is no reason why those in full the same, what they need to do, as regards the religious part, do not do. Here, that's something that I'm here at the end of this part already when you said to move the Croatian army away from the Catholic Church to do it well, I'm telling you that in this term of this government, that it won't happen or do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178624	Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178625	Thank you. Dear Mr. Krstičević. We discussed the Armed Forces Act. I call upon you, on behalf of you, as Parliament's representative as defence minister, to ask the question of the present and future of the NATO Pact, especially after this summit and the speech of President of France Macron, and we have heard what was the conversation between him and US President Trump because this is about demands for large investments, so 2% of the state budget. Why? To what end? What is NATO's alliance today, what is its future, what are the relations between the EU member states? Because we see that there have been geopolitical and geostrategic changes on the map of the world. America no longer wants to be, withdraws its army, Trump doesn't want to war anywhere anymore, interrupts conflicts, he wants to protect as he said, what's in America. On the other hand, the EU is clearly not able to function on its own. If it can function on its own, why is it the most important strategic partner of the United States, and now he says himself that it is no longer for it. So as a parliamentary representative and a representative of the citizens, I wonder what's going on. Let's have a plenary session in HS to talk about, to file a report because just to remind you, the interest in the state budget stands out 8.5 billion kuna, the ministry is worth 5 billion. It's already all the great crucial things we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178626	Thank you. The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178627	Your honors, the fact that you're wearing the crowns, that's what I deeply respect. But it is your private religious belief, and according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is a secular state, and your duty is to implement the Constitution, not your religious beliefs. Therefore, I spoke to you from the position of the Constitution. And the Constitution must be respected by all. In addition, look at the Homeland War not only were Catholics involved. No, they're not. The atheists participated, the Orthodox also participated, on the Croatian side, the Jews participated, do you think they do not deserve respect? So at least the same as Catholics?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178628	Representative Sabina Vosovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Honored Ministers. You offered me on the line with your statement that you would not separate the Church from the army. It is clear that every soldier, that every soldier is adorned and expected to be physically and mentally prepared. Each of them is ready to fight and die for their country. Our country is Croatia and it is a secular state. It is true that the spirit is something important, however, I believe that the religion that exists does not determine one soldier. I think General Ademi is no less important or brave only because it may be some other religion. He fought for this Croatia as many others. I think that's where you misconnected faith and the Church. Faith is not necessarily a church. Faith is needed, but there are also believers and unbelievers who are able to be excellent soldiers and protect our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178630	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178631	Well, well-respected and well-respected MPs. That's your part, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say the same thing, this Croatian state, secular state, this is the state of the Croatian people and the Croatian people, our people in this country should feel the best and these are the facts, I say. Clearly, everyone is welcome, therefore, every national minority is welcome and there are, living people in Croatia, in Croatia, but this is the state of Croatia, the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178632	Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178633	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. I have visited numerous military offices in Croatia with you, and I have visited the military before your term. This today has led to inrecognition, working conditions, material rights secured for your term of office by Croatian soldiers have returned dignity to the Croatian military because one of these preconditions is certainly work space, material conditions, field accessories and all that has been done in the last 3, here for 3.5 years. In this sense, I congratulate you and you have full support in everything you do for the Croatian Army and Croatian soldiers and I congratulate you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178634	This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178635	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 789. There's a fellow Glasovic looking for a break I'm about to approve. Is there anyone else here to take your word for it? If we don't get back to work at 12:30. Please be precise here. MEETING IN 12.20 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.32 HOURS]] Final draft law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 789. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I find it unanimous with 116 votes to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178637	The next item is as we decided this morning to hold a united debate at the following 4 points: - Final proposal of the Air Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 681 - Final proposal of the Law on Climate Change and Ozone Protection, second reading, P.Z.E. No 682 - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation (EC) No 842/2006, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 800 - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2015/757 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, reporting and verification thereof and amending Directive 2009/16/EC, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 801 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to non-other law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Representative Mile Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178638	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The second reading of the Law on Air Protection, the Law on Climate Change and the protection of the ozone layer and for the nomotechnical reasons of Regulations 757 and 514 which we have transposed in the Final Proposal of the Law on Climate Change cannot, therefore the law on their application cannot be derivated by the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozones and we should have put those regulations out of force by adopting a special law which is also the subject of this unambiguous debate and I will say a little more about the content of these Regulations when I speak about the very proposal of the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Layer. Just to remind myself that the applicable Air Protection Act was adopted in 2011 and has been amended four times and complemented to comply with the EU acquis and to comply with a special regulation governing the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. As a result, and as a result of a whole series of new EU rules that were to be implemented or extended, these laws arise from the need to reorganise the existing legal framework, to separate air from climate protection and ozone layer and to adopt two laws which are the subject of this second reading of the Air Protection Act and the Law on Climate Change and Ozone Protection. In the very Law on Air Protection between the first and the second reading, there were certain suggestions that we, as well as the opinions of the state bodies that we have, the committees that we have discussed and which we have included in the second reading of this law. In accordance with the observations of the Croatian Parliament Legislatives Committee, we have therefore done so nomotechnically on Articles 8, 11, 12, 13, 30, 31, 37 and 41, so they are done in a nomotechnical way. In addition, two new articles have been added in this final text compared to the first reading, and in Article 49 and Article 74, in order to clarify the definition of fuel quality monitoring as a product. Article 7 has been developed in order to clarify the transactions carried out by the State Hydrometeorological Institute, which relate to modelling for the needs of expert analyses of data on pollutant emissions and to the determination of the contribution of individual emission sources to air pollutant levels for the purposes of action plans and Article 54 of this Law. Article 9 has been completed by extending and supplementing the terms of distributors and traders, and a new concept of independent inspection body or inspection body of type A has been added. In addition, Article 66 has been completed for the sake of clearer regulation of the application procedure itself in law, Article 80 has been completed for the sake of clearer regulation of market inspector obligations. In relation to the draft law in Article 108, the entry into force of the law has been amended because obviously this law will not be passed, which we have already prescribed, by these new amendments and extended. It is important here to say that, in financial terms, the funds for the implementation of the air law are planned in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. It is also important to say that simplifying the production of planning and strategic documents is the reduction of the obligations of the units of regional and regional self-government, no new payments are introduced, but existing obligations for operators that are so far prescribed by the Air Protection Act remain the same and will be taken over by this law. I can also say here that, that we also accept the amendment of the Committee on Law that went with the amendment to Article. 96 where in art. The word ‘State Inspectorate’ is replaced by ‘the competent authority’. Therefore, the Proposer accepts this proposed amendment by the Legislative Committee. Here I will just remind you that in, here I will just remind you that this air law has defined the obligations of the ministry, then the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the City of Zagreb on information and information content. It defines the ministry's obligation to ensure the availability and exchange of air quality data as an obligation and to ensure the availability of air quality measurements data, provide and exchange emissions data with international organisations and within time limits set by the EU acquis. This proposed law also regulates the area of issuing air quality monitoring permits, the monitoring activities of pollutant emissions to air from fixed sources, the verification of the correctness of the measuring system for continuous measurement of pollutant emissions in air from fixed sources. Also, conditions are prescribed which must satisfy legal persons or test laboratories as legal persons established in the State. Contracting Parties to the Treaty in the European Economic Area shall also be required to provide for the work of the Reference Laboratory for the publication of the quality of measurement activities in the field of the Republic of Croatia. Also, this law regulates the information system of air protection, which is an integral part of the environmental information system and is prescribed... and what it contains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also prescribed this bill as a way to carry out administrative and inspection.../incomprehensible/... inspection controls. Finally, the bill simplifies, which is very important to draw up plan-based strategic documents in a way that brings the air protection plan as an integral part of the environmental protection plan, rather than as a single document. Furthermore, the adoption of the action plan, as well as the short-term action plans, is more detailed. The obligations and procedures carried out in zones and agglomerations shall be further clarified when the levels of individual pollutants above the prescribed limit values are exceeded. These are the basic elements of this air protection law with changes and between two readings. I would now point out the differences between the first and second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Climate Change and the protection of the ozone layer. In accordance with the opinion of the HS Legislative Committee, certain articles have also been carried out in this proposal for a law on climate change, some 10 articles have been no-technically completed. Compared to the first reading, certain additions and arrangements of certain articles have been carried out in order to improve clarity and transparency. For example, Article 8 has been deleted since this law does not transfer transactions to the bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government or to legal persons with public authority, and therefore there is no need for this provision and is deleted. Art. 24 is complemented by new subparagraphs in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2018/99. According to the requirements of that Regulation, the establishment of the National Land Information System is also required. Art. 26 is updated and is prescribed to appoint the presidents and members of the commission the Government of the Republic of Croatia, appoint from the ranks of scientific, professional, public and other employees and representatives of the central authorities of the state administration responsible for individual sectors, representatives of civil society associations operating in the area of climate change and the business world. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European The Government of the Republic of Croatia has the power to adopt a Regulation on how greenhouse gas emissions are monitored and policies and measures to reduce them. In addition, detailed articles relating to inspection supervision are detailed in accordance with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act. In the part of the climate, in the area of climate change, these laws are adopted in more detail by means of materials that must be ensured at national level by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and measures are carried out by the authorities of the state administration responsible for individual sectors, so that is, that is, the distinction here is important to highlight. So in the area of climate change, this is the adoption of the Low Carbon Development Strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050. The draft strategy is prepared and is expected by the end of the year to consult with the interested public and is then referred to in the procedure in HS in the first quarter of 2020. By bringing the Climate Change Strategy to 2040 with a view to 2070, the draft strategy has been prepared, the public debate has been completed and the document is planned to be referred to the HS procedure in the first quarter of 2020. Integrated Energy and Climate Plan of the Republic for the period 2021, the draft plan has passed the consultation with the interested public and the plan is planned to be adopted by the end of 2019. By adopting a plan for the use of financial resources derived from the sale of greenhouse gas emission units in the Republic of Croatia for a five-year period, the same important document for the implementation of this law. In the past period, the Government has adopted two plans and this is the 2014-2016 Plan, which spent 734 million kunas. The implementation is the second plan for the period until the end of 2020, which plans to spend around 1.5 billion kuna on energy efficiency measures in construction, with a percentage of around 29% of total funds, 11% of total funds planned for renewable sources, turnover will be invested in 7.7% of ESI funds projects around 12.5% and research and development around 4.6% of total resources, finally 30% of planned funding for waste management alone by 2020. In this Act on Climate Change and Ozone Protection, as I have said, two regulations have been implemented and this Regulation is the year 757/2015 on carbon dioxide emissions monitored from maritime transport and Regulation 517 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and on one and another regulation, I will only say briefly. Regulation 757 therefore lays down rules for the monitoring of the reporting and verification of emissions of carbon dioxide from maritime transport and other relevant information on ships of a volume greater than 5000 gross that have been coming to the EU ports, start from or are located in those ports since 1.1.2018. The obligation to monitor carbon dioxide emissions is not covered by this Regulation by warships, military auxiliary ships, fishing vessels, wood crafts of primitive production, ships which do not have mechanical propulsion and ships of the Government of the Republic of Croatia used for non-commercial purposes. The regulation contains measures aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions because they account for 4% of total greenhouse gas emissions in the EU. Regulation 517/2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases has been implemented in the area of protection of the ozone layer. The Regulation prescribes the operation of fluoro-chlorinated greenhouse gases during their life cycle from production to disposal at the end of use. They relate to fluorocarbons which are most commonly used as working substances in cooling and air conditioning devices, heat cranes as foam or insulating materials, and in fire extinguishers and fire extinguishers. It is important here to say that in the Republic of Croatia the greatest pressure in implementing Regulation 517 will be on the cooling sector used for the working substances of 404a and 410a. These working substances are the most represented in cooling units for commercial cooling or in food products stores. The ministry actively co-operates with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in order to warn all stakeholders in time about the changes that have taken place and which will result in the implementation of this Regulation. Since 1.1.2020, refrigerating appliances that use working substances whose... is greater than 2,500 will no longer be able to be serviced. A ban on the service of these devices will take place, and the substance itself will no longer be used. Therefore, there is a transitional period until 2030 in which these working substances will only be used within the Republic of Croatia for smaller cooling devices that use up to 3 kg of the working substance and only if they are used, or if they are restored or serviced. Finally, I would say that this law does not impose new financial burdens on the economy as much as possible on legal persons and craftsmen engaged in the service of cooling devices to reduce the fixed burden of around 10 million kunas in our assessment or the assurances of the training of repairers will now last permanently and will no longer last 5 years so as to avoid that part of administrative costs. Therefore, since this Climate Change Act and the protection of the ozone layer were incorporated and implemented and Regulation 517 and Regulation 757 to repeal these Regulations, and the Law implementing those Regulations, it was necessary to adopt a new law on the suspension of the validity of those Regulations. Therefore, the following two points, which should be on the agenda, are united, we are discussing exactly two proposals for a law on the termination of these regulations, and they have been implemented in substance in the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Layer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178639	Anka's representative, Dark Taritash, has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178640	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. When you explained these laws, then you spoke very closely about certain acts to be adopted, and I mean strategies and deadlines in which the same will be adopted. But I have to say that there are also, and when it comes to the Climate Change Act within three months and a year, there are 6 regulations to be adopted and four regulations are to be adopted, so for a number of things to be done at all, it is necessary to do so. You know that these laws make us from the GLAS Club absolutely affirmatively speaking because aware of the facts and circumstances in which we live is important to bring them in, but more important to actually go and apply them and take care of them. So I'm curious about what stage these six regulations and four regulations are because it won't be possible to apply the whole law or some parts without it, so I'm curious about what stage it is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178641	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178642	Thank you. Dear MPs. Therefore, technical services or administration services have already been parallel and have done the basic structures of these regulations and regulations, but as long as this law is not passed and entered into force we cannot talk about the adoption of those regulations. Of course the deadlines are pretty short, we'll try to honor those deadlines. It is often a problem and communication with the working bodies in giving an opinion, so these deadlines are being breached, not because we, in some technical sense, have not prepared this act as a professional service.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178643	Representative Slaven Dobrovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178644	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So you explained these two laws in detail, and you also talked about the regulations that are being abolished. I'm curious, do you see this package as just one homework that we do, so what came from Brussels, or do you see some links to certain reforms and even potentials in our economy? Is that just a burden or is there a chance for some kind of growth and development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178645	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178646	Dear Representative Dobrovic, so I said in the end that we have calculated how much in some financial sense disbursement of the economy is going to be by finishing, by dividing first, and later by adding these legal different models to these two laws to the economy. So let's just say, just that fact that we calculated by issuing a conviction that will last for a lifetime for refrigerators, and not as it has been for the previous solutions every five years, there will have to be savings and economic relief for some 10 million kunas, which is not little. Now, of course we're working at the level of all ministries, right now it's about assessing the fiscal discharge, the administrative redundancy of the economy, and I think it's time for us to show these total results at the country level next month. Then we'll have full indicators and we'll see how relieved the economy will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178647	Thank you. Time's up, please stick to your scheduled time. Pedja Grbin's representative is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178648	Dear Mr. Secretary of State. What you're saying, as my colleague said before, is actually a presentation of a homework that we have to do as instructed from the EU, but it's all okay and it's all good. However, the question is how much this will have effect in practice if it is not followed by concrete measures made by local communities, which countries. According to data I found by HAOP, Croatia's largest air pollutant has been identified in urban traffic. So, in particular, to deal with air pollution that comes from there, we would have to turn to other modes of transport, meaning moving traffic from urban areas and, for example, turning public transport to the expansion of the tram network in Zagreb, introducing a bus to electricity or something like that. But I don't see such measures happening in Croatia. That's why I'm saying this is homework and a list of good wishes, but I don't know what will have consequences for really improving air quality in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178649	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178650	I thank you, Your Honor. So all local self-governments, large cities, especially the city of Zagreb, have an obligation to adopt action plans to reduce pollution or harmful emissions. So, at this point through the Environmental Protection Fund, we're doing some alternative policies, co-finance the purchase of electric cars. The truth isn't today a large number of those, about 500 of those vehicles, but we are definitely aware that alternative policies and alternative directions must be found, and I think we'll be going that way in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178651	Representative Ivan Kirin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178652	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The main air pollutants are industrial processes, transport, power-generating facilities, combustion and so on, the main consequences of air pollution, air pollution are greenhouse effect, ozone holes, photochemical industrial smog, and acid rain. Air pollution can be reduced by controlling the source, electric cars, gas cars, gas-powered ships, filter installation in industrial plants. Is it yours or how your ministry can influence the subsidisation of gas installations in cars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178653	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178654	So, Your Honor. Whether or not to subsidise or co-finance the procurement of electric cars is a matter of a particular policy, a matter of resources and of the Environment Fund for the next year as far as I know there is a specific planned position item in the budget to co-finance the purchase of such cars. Here I'll tell you the last piece of information, so we have so far co-financed somewhere around 452 cars, a plow hybrid somewhere around 230, we have built in the state 700 chargers for electric cars. So it's one procedure that will take, of course, not an optimistically large number but it's a start.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178655	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178656	Thank you very much. Secretary, how does this law fit the decision to close the dump? As it fits, which caused, of course, 120 or 150 kilometers of transport is waste from the sanitary conditions to the same sanitary conditions as for example. from Vrgorec to Sinj. You pick up the people's junk and take the trash there with trucks that don't have the conditions, which are old, which turn out to be junk, local self-governments don't have the resources, yes, with one goal to match the waste mob that's going to take the ride from one sense to another sense that they're going to drive there. How will this decision affect your law on air protection, ozone? It's the Mafia that greases everything. Neither your ministry protects the environment nor you care about the environment, and that is proof of the decision to close the dump where you transport garbage from Vrgorec to Sinj. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178657	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178658	I thank you, Your Honor. So this is another topic that could be discussed and I'm not running away from talking about it. So the dynamics of closing the landfill are the document that was planned and as an obligation set out in the mandate before this government. We are only executing it and it is an obligation from the accession treaty when we joined the EU. Therefore, the closure of non-harmonised landfills is certainly in the interest and reduction of pollution, or that is our obligation that we cannot avoid. Whether the happiest solution provided for in this dynamic was to discuss it, but it was done by experts, so it was done by expert consultants and it was held for public debate. And she was at a public hearing and those who are now rebelling for the use of these dynamics did not object in the public debate, so they did not object to the dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178659	Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178660	Injure Rules of Procedure 238, I'll just say briefly take the transport careful transport in trucks 120 kilometers of waste from the same sanitary conditions to the second. Imagine you guys on the highway going to those old trucks and driving junk and that doesn't affect the air. What's going on? It's no shame to say this has nothing to do with this subject. Well, you're the guards of the waste mob, not the environment, Mr. Horvat, if that's what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178661	Representative Bulj, you've earned a second warning because there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with our work. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If I don't, I'm opening up in a debate. For participation in the debate, the Most Representatives' Club will be registered on their behalf by representative Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178662	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I welcome the representatives of the ministry headed by the secretary of state, of course all of you colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. So we have two laws before us, or what comes in the package, so that this problem, or whatever the laws are dealing with, can not be properly closed. Therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Air Protection and the Proposal for a Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Layer. The Secretary of State explained about what this is about, and it may have been unclear that the separation of the Air Protection Act on these two laws is actually the consequence of the fact that we noticed, so we are not here in the Parliament, but is globally observed. to know the great problem of climate change also in this ozone layer, the protection of the ozone layer in the stratosphere and needs to be addressed specifically by these two major problems. Because what we emit in the environment, of course, are different compounds, various gases, various substances polluted and some of them belong to a group of greenhouse gases, so there's the most famous CO2 and the largest of all, but also a whole series of others, so methane, nitrogen oxide, Freeons all of those compounds that affect the global balance sheet of the country, so it's radiation and disturbances to that balance because we know that the favourable conditions on earth can be thanks to that greenhouse effect that is due to this atmosphere that we have. However, in the last 100 and a few years, we have changed the composition of this atmosphere and changes are observed. Rarely, they claim that these changes are not really the case and that man is minor here in terms of these changes, that it's something else that doesn't really need to be done. I think there's a general scientific consensus about how to act, and that's why we need to and what we're doing here is completely justified. The laws have a series of documents, I don't want to talk about it now, this Air Protection Act he sets out a plan, a report and a protection program which, of course, is methodologically set that makes sense. So it's very important to monitor the environment, which is why it would be good for us to strengthen our environmental monitoring network and strengthen the institutions that implement it, and I'm afraid it would be possible to establish that this is not the case, that we rely very often on external institutions. This second Law on Climate Change and Ozone Protection also envisioned the adoption of a strategy, so low carbon development and adaptation to climate change, so it is one thing to do to reduce the contribution to further development of this situation in terms of cutting emissions from various sources, another is to adapt to a state that does not artificially come. Of course, there are action plans, etc. What do all the papers bring you? So, by many sectors, they are considering, bringing science here is quite involved and defining the measures that have very clear effects in many sectors and these measures are actually being built into policies now and we are obliged to implement it because it is in fact the only way to stop these rather rapid changes in the environment. So let's say we wanted to make something that was made by the Montreal Agreement in 1987 when, in a short time, the production of the main distributors of those Freeons known to R 11 and 12 was reduced, the constraint of the destruction of the ozone in the stratosphere. However, this is a broader problem, of course this problem is not solved, it is covered here because many of the working substances and substitutes that were then placed on the market have proved to be extremely potent in relation to greenhouses, so their activity relative to CO2 can be up to 100,000 times more intense than CO2, so one, one, one, per unit of mass, therefore further action is needed. These measures include a lot of things. And there are sectors where we can't do much, let's say, plane traffic, it's known that it's growing, I'm just going to take out a few figures here. In 2017, therefore, 28 Member States and EFTA countries were a total of 1,643 billion km of passengers, which is 20% higher than in '14. and even 60% compared to 2005. So these are huge increases. The efficiency in this aviation industry is growing significantly, so the average human speaking consumption of a passenger is 100 people, 100 kilometers of passengers 3.4 liters of fuel, which is 8 times lower than in '14. and 24 times less on 2005, respectively. So, there seems to be an effort in industry, planes are getting more efficient, easier, I don't know there's a lot of aerodynamics, etc. and changes are being made, but the volume of this transport is increasing and will probably need to address the issue. Of course, these 3.4 liters per 100 kilometers of passengers is a lot because, compared to car traffic, it's at least 2 times higher, and about bus transport or trains that we don't talk about, so it's 10 times and more over. However, these are things where, of course, one country's distribution is particularly small as we are, it's probably possible, but we follow some general plans and it's okay, but there are sectors where we can certainly get involved because there's a question of energy, there will be more words about it very quickly, because we know that it comes to debate and energy strategy. However, transport, industry, agriculture, waste management, such as waste management. It has a distribution here according to the last document that can be found, the national inventory of greenhouse gas emissions 6.4% of emissions is precisely from this sector, or it's about a million and a half tons of equivalent CO2. The main part of these emissions comes from a dump where in anaerobic conditions there is a emission of methane and CO2, of course the methane is a problem here because its potency in terms of greenhouses was actually actually underrated now that its GVT index is even bigger I think about 30 is being calculated somewhere, and 10 years ago, 15 years were calculated with a smaller number. So that's a big, big amount. However, we know that in the accession contract, we also had an obligation to reduce the amount of biodegradable waste that is delayed and that we do not actually do so, and we also risk some unwanted consequences. We can also look at documents that exist on social or online networks to delay in Croatia, and there are still 530,000 tonnes of waste going to landfills. 530,000 tons of biodegradable waste means a lot, a lot. So it's about the fact that the storage conditions here create a huge amount of storage gases, which would be an alternative, I'll go back to the quantities. So what were we supposed to do first? We could do composting, composting, and now we're coming to policy integration, and that's why I asked you State Secretary if you see in this link, some opportunity, namely I remind you that we have a waste management plan, we have recycling obligations, we even have resources in the Operational Programme - Competitiveness and Cohesion. These funds are extremely poor and we have a situation today at the end of 2019 that no composting tender has yet been opened, so to co-finance composts that units of local self-government would build in their own area and that biodegradable waste is still working to convert over 500,000 tonnes annually into compost. This compost when converted, when produced separately from the collected biodegradable waste that we already have in several cities and we know well that it is extremely good quality because this compost has been examined, you can see it in Prelog na Krk and probably somewhere else. This compost contains about 2% nitrogen, about 1.2% phosphorus, 0.2% potassium, and it is extremely valuable and of course very much organic matter, it is extremely valuable for agriculture. However, this does not seem to be because we have double damage, so double damage, on the one hand we produce a huge amount of biodegradable waste is produced by a huge amount of greenhouse gases and on the other hand we miss the opportunity to use this compost and all its nutrients and thus avoid the part of mineral fertilisers that would be used in agriculture. Paper and cardboard is also biodegradable waste and it came largely still to the dump so that it can be composted but it doesn't make any sense, it's far more valuable in recycling. However, paper and cardboard in the dump, which still seems mass, means the following. 300 000 tons of paper and paperboard are about 23,000 metan or almost 700,000 tons of equivalent carbon dioxide. If we were to move that paper and cardboard instead of moving to the paper factory, then there at the expense of saving energy production, and that also balances with us, so in the second sector but it balances, that would mean another 270 thousand tons. Excuse me, 270 000 tonnes of finished paper or 160 000 equivalent CO2. So on paper, we have a difference of 860,000 tons of CO2. What am I saying? So what I'm saying is that if policies are connected, if a lot of momentum is put what's already drawn in the waste management plan, that's what needs to be in almost all of these action plans, the energy action plan, the emission reduction action plan, we have a first significant contribution to emission reductions, secondly, we have greater economic activity because recycling of especially plastics, in which I will, in an individual debate, also offer very large bonuses to save greenhouse gas emissions. There are jobs and there is a situation where we from cost create an opportunity to earn, so the mixed waste that is formed by this current normal practice is always the cost. Insisting on the CGOs as solutions to the problem leads in the wrong direction. The establishment of a system in a healthy way, the money available, through this compost can achieve large savings in emissions. Thank you very much. I'll continue in individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178663	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178664	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before the second reading, I kind of call them these climate laws, laws that are related to climate change. We at the GLAS Club will support it as we did in our first reading, and we will support it in the second reading for the simple reason why it should be said that climate change exists, and I do every time I talk about it, repeat one and the same sentence, and I will repeat it this time, and I think that Mr Trump thinks that they don't exist and America ignores it, we all know together that there are, it's just enough to turn around and think about what it was like this May of the year, what it was like in the autumn and winter, and it's obvious that it's like that. We therefore appreciate that it is extremely good that Croatia has decided on the basis of both the directive and everything else, that the applicable law that was the Law on Air Protection should be converted into two laws but also should not be stopped there, it should be continued. So we can talk about form, we can talk about content. The form will be satisfied, we'll have it but what we need to keep talking about, we need to talk about the content and activities that we need to work on. Last week, the European Parliament voted in favour of the resolution on the climate and environmental crisis. So it's a resolution that talks about the crisis, doesn't talk about warming, doesn't talk about climate change, the word they used is the crisis, and it's good that it does. In the fight against the crisis in which we are now, we need to be first, completely honest and say that it is the fact that this is really about the crisis. Maybe we don't feel it on our own skin every day. When we look at everything together, so when we look at Croatia and look at us as individuals on the global world stage, then the Adriatic Sea is just a small bay, Croatia is, of course, a small country where about 4 million people live, and I've met many times with citizens, but I've met those who really decide something, so they say, so it doesn't matter as long as China does what it does, while America pretends that climate change doesn't exist, while in India we have different processes that aren't controlled, so what we can do. You can always access yourself globally and locally at any job. And globally there was recently a large set of cracks, and that was the opening of the event when it came to climate change, but it was also mentioned climate change, and in the context of it was said, so it's a good thing that we light little tractors I don't know, once a week or so we start a car, so we can't do that much. I have to admit that I don't agree with that, I think that every single one of us can do some very small things and can do and can feel good about it. I've really been out there since I was about 80s last century sailing and I've been all over the Adriatic and I've really been in every wave. I can tell you the really experienced changes you see. The biggest damage you can see is the nylon bags you see on the shores, so on the rocks, you see on some beaches, you see at the bottom, so I'm absolutely sure of one fact, and that in the markets in the City of Zagreb only for one weekend is divided about a few thousand nylon bags. That's when you buy a grizzly so someone puts that grizzly in a plastic bag. See how many plastic bags there are in those malls when you come and pick your own fruits and vegetables and put them in it. I ask you all how many of you are out there somewhere in your bag or something in that bag and then when it comes to the store and when these pies you want a nylon bag you say no, no, I have mine. So it seems to you all that really in the context of climate change, in the context of everything that is now there someone has come to the pay phone in the Croatian Parliament and is talking about nylon bags, but that, in this way you are actually showing an attitude, thus showing that you care about it, thus showing that you recognize the problem and thus you show that you are willing to influence it by your little actions. Let's see how many homes you separate from the waste that you always talk about, how much you separate, and how much you carry it. Just look in, about what the household does, so that mixed municipal waste when you extract plastic from it, you see how much you have left. And all of this is, in fact, a little bit of what we're saying is that we really make sure that we preserve this planet that we're living on, to preserve some of our environments in which we live. To return to what the European Parliament has said to its resolution on the climate and environmental crisis. He said, among other things, that this problem cannot be solved quickly, that it is not easy to solve without being able to solve it cheaply. He said it would take us years and decades to face the consequences of climate change, that we need to form policies, that we need to form a different style of life and the functioning of both the economy and the transport and industry and the sources and ways of energy use, and we need to adapt to this new situation. Equally so says the changes are there, and the solutions are long and difficult, but we need to start solving the problem now. We have these laws that we're going to vote on that second Friday on the 13th are the basics. They need us for everything else, behind these laws go strategies, action plans go, but then we come to real life. If every single one of us in real life isn't aware of all that, then we'll have a problem. This resolution requires the European Parliament, they used the word, when you translate from English, you can also request requests from the Commission and from the Member States and all global actors to urgently take the concrete measures necessary to combat and combat the dangers and the repression of the European Parliament. And here's the word was concrete. So we're all prone to come to this pay phone together, say there's a problem, that the problem needs to be solved, but when we get to those concrete things, then there's a little bit of stopping. And every country needs to look at the state of play, which this economy is important and which economy wants to further develop. There is, when it comes to it, I always try to tie myself to it when I'm talking about space and change that's happening to us in space. When it comes to space then we have and we need to be very careful about how we use land, about topics where we re-use land and sustainable governance issues. These are some global things and global situations, but you also have to make absolutely sure that certain measures of the state say, here I know we're aware of the problem that, we're aware that this problem needs a certain, certain means and a certain time, but we're on our way now. A country that doesn't recognize it, a country that doesn't ignore it, which will ignore it, a country that treats it lightly will be the last of all EU member states, but also won't have the opportunity to profile it, and you can do it everywhere, you can work at the country level, you can work at the city level. There's something called green spatial planning. Green spatial planning is not a spatial planning to paint the building green or I am at one point in this great desire to adapt to the environment are connected to large power lines, so they said these are large pillars and we are bothered so we're starting to be afraid of the green thing that was radical. What does green spatial planning mean to you? This means that every time you plan the urban space of one city, you take care of the number of sunny days, you take care of the rose winds, you take care of the groundwaters, you take care of some changes that are and when you plan to develop a particular piece of work, then taking care of it all, and not take it as if it's white paper and plans where it's the hottest on paper and the most beautiful looks, it's just not good. Similarly, there are laws where bedrooms go, which is better in the cities, let's say in the city of Zagreb is an incomparably better orientation of the apartment north-east than the south-west because you have more quality light, you have longer, you use less electricity, so there are a series of things that are extremely important. This would be important to take care of spatial planning because it is part of the entire climate change package. There's one measure for you, one good-looking thing that the cities have already recognized, unfortunately, we live in a city that didn't recognize it. When, of course, everyone loves their pet who's called a car and likes to come from A to B in Zagreb as soon as possible and then look at it when you do it, when you go with a green wave that has three tapes and then you actually see that you can use one or two because one of them is parked cars all the time. These cars often see that those cars are delivery. So the city of Zagreb is one of the few cities where you can work 24 hours a day without any restrictions or anything else in that sense. Towns the size of Zagreb, so I will never, I never compare the head of our country to Paris or London but I compare it to the Helsinki, which is by the number of inhabitants there somewhere compared to Vienna which is still significantly larger by the number of inhabitants but is from the same mile. What are these cities doing? Cities have special locations where cars of delivery, trucks or whatever they are from there are being loaded either into freight bikes or in electric vehicles that are then being delivered around the city center, so they don't go to the city center at all, they don't destroy the exhaust gas and all that. Imagine if we had that in the city of Zagreb. We have it on some islands, but why, because these islands don't have cars at all, and then certain islands make it work, but what a capital of a country should show how it thinks about everything and what it's done. Likewise in the context of climate change, you all follow and you know that in the city of Zagreb, that GUP is the central theme will be, will not be, when it will be, under what conditions it will be. Since '71. Mr. in GUP of the city of Zagreb were always limited to building public garages in the city center because in the public garage you can't car under your hand, you will bring her, park her, so you will drive traffic into the city center. For the first time in 2019, the GUP decided to allow the construction of public garages in the lower city, so what we have, we decided to destroy. So let me get this straight. These laws are correct. Whether they're the best possible or not, we can always discuss it, they can be better and so they're the basis. They have some strategies and action plans behind it, but if we don't all do it together, we will be able to boast that Croatia has a law of reality will be something different. Where do we have to do this? That's what municipalities have to do, cities have to do, economic operators have to do, and we have to work as individuals. Something that is extremely important at national level and which should be recognised now and in this part help financially, these are new jobs that are related to the fight against climate change, or rather this crisis situation. The first person to recognize that there are new jobs, the first one to determine who they are, will therefore be individuals and those countries and those institutions with progress, and I do not only want to be a dead letter on paper, but also have concrete events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178665	Thank you. Let's welcome the event before we move on, students and students of the school of Economics from Sibenik at the gallery. And now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the honourable representative Damir Felak will speak, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178666	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I warmly welcome you all. Today we are discussing unitedly the proposal of these 4 laws, meaning the Law on Air Protection, the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone and this law that we are going to abolish, means this EU regulation because it is contained in the Law on Climate Change and the Law on the Protection of the Ozone. There have been no major changes between the two readings of these legislative proposals, we have heard a detailed explanation of the State Secretary which the amendments were, they are not too significant, and in the debate itself in the first reading there were not too many objections to the legal proposals themselves. As a rule, it was discussed as today on all other topics, but it was precisely about laws or what laws prescribe that there were no proposals for amendments to the law, so it seems to me that these laws were affected as such, and I think they provide a quality legal framework in order to be able to take care of these topics properly. So these are topics that are very important, as has already been said here, the issue of climate change, climate change, is something that is being discussed in the EU Parliament, in parliaments or in all EU countries and in the whole world, and everyone realizes that if we don't do something really quickly and we are not effective that climate change will affect our lives more and more. We as a small country that doesn't have a big industry and we're not some big contaminant looking at globally yet we can do a lot of things as a society and I think we all agree there and what the representatives of the clubs who were before me said, and I can say in the name of the HDZ Club and my personal name that I think we all understand the problem, that the problem is not a little bit but it is before I say the explosion even bigger and if all of us together, start from our backyard to the global part, and there are big countries, the biggest contaminants, they can have the most impact on stopping climate change, at least on stopping, and then.../incomprehensible/... then to climate and improving us and how much back in some normal frameworks that were up to 20, 30 years ago. Surely it's the biggest countries in the world, America, Russia, China, India, which are also the biggest polluters, but we must primarily think about ourselves and talk about what we do, what we do and what we can do. Here, I'll just give a few examples from my profession, from forestry, we keep saying that here's the waste most Mr. Dobrović, who is a former minister and who certainly knows the subject best, but one of the places for disposal in Croatia is unfortunately still the forest. Forests, forest areas where every year organised actions are carried out, such as Green Cleanup and similar, but also individual waste and forest resolution because the Forest Act is also prescribed to be waste, garbage when found in the forest should be removed and in 99% of the cases, this garbage is of unknown origin. So someone comes in, unloads from the car, no guard of the forest, no one else very difficult to catch, even though we do today, it may have been understandable because there was no organised transportation of waste from rural areas, small settlements, etc., but today we have organized the transportation of waste from almost all villages and almost all villages in the Republic of Croatia, and there's really no reason for people to throw waste into the woods, but they're throwing it away. What's he saying? He's saying that we're simply not the other person who's educated enough, who doesn't recognize a simple problem, and someone, let's do an inert, commo, it's the simplest thing, at least to throw that waste away somewhere, usually it's usually, I say, that forest area because it's the least you can see there when you do something like that. So we as a society should work primarily on educating people, and then part of it through legal regulations and repressive action that those people who get caught doing something against the law, are being punished. And that's what these laws are all about, too, so the laws are good, but they need to be implemented. I hope that these laws will be implemented as far as possible and that we in Croatia will protect the environment and the air and try to influence climate change to make them as little as possible, at least from this leap area that makes the Republic, so here I call and here are the younger people, the gallery and everything to think about whenever we want, let's say by car go to the nearest store, whether we have to go by car or we can go on foot or bike. Not by electric, but by this classic bike. There was also talk of air traffic which is a major contaminant. Some time, some time, maybe we can and can, we can avoid traveling that way, maybe we can take some kind of electric train or something that's certainly less polluting the environment than an airplane or some other means of transport. I hope that soon more and more use of electric cars that do not pollute the environment themselves will be revived, but clearly, we also have these studies that their production, so electricity production is also polluting the environment and that they are also being debated to the extent that they are environmentally acceptable, but I think that in time how this technology will improve, they will be increasingly acceptable and that we will also reduce the impact on the climate. But what's already said here, solutions to prevent climate change and improve the situation won't be quick, and in particular it won't be cheap, and we all need to get to know it and just accept it as such, and I think we should share that cost as citizens, but also the state as someone who recognizes it and needs to invest more and more. In any case, we at the HDZ Club think these two laws are good, as I said, there were no major objections to them. They provide an appropriate legal framework so that we can influence both air quality and climate change and protection of the ozone layer and everything further that goes and therefore the HDZ Club will support the adoption of these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178667	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178668	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Here's another hello. What would it mean to enforce these laws? So I have the impression that, that a lot of people think that these are abstract measures, this will take a long time, a question of when and where it can even come at what price. However, this is not exactly the case, or from sector to sector, but you know what opportunities are, which are transformations because you are transforming the energy sector into a fully decarbonised system. 20 years ago it sounded like one fiction, but today it seems quite possible, but let's just say it still takes some time for those solutions. In transport too, solutions are possible very quickly. For air traffic, however, we see that people today are much harder to travel around the world. But other sectors offer a lot and perhaps at the expense of other sectors we could afford to travel by plane, why not? planes all over the world. And here's circular management, circular economy. It is also a very abstract notion, but it is not abstract at all, and I will return to waste management, I mentioned that it is about 6.7% of the emission load in Croatia, total emissions are about 25 million tonnes of equivalent CO2. So we're talking about global warming. What does the waste management sector offer? He offers a lot, he actually offers that we move from the show zone to the sink zone. How is that possible? Well, it's possible that if biodegradable waste is not placed on dumps, so is cardboard and paper, but we're driving to composting, we're avoiding emissions on the one hand, and we're having a sink of emissions because we need less energy in the paper and cardboard industry. That's what I was talking about earlier, and here's the paper, so I'm going to do the numbers again. For paper, if we have 300,000 tonnes of paper still being thrown in Croatia, it is in your disposal conditions, each year we place the potential to produce 700,000 tonnes of CO2. It does not occur this year but over the decades, however, even today these dump emissions are the result of action 10, 20, 30, 50 years ago, so we don't think we're going to stop it now. Only today can we stop creating new potential for such a process. However, in the paper factory it reduces emissions by 160 000 tonnes, the total contribution is from +700 to -160. It is an 860,000-ton jump, with only paper and cardboard in Croatia. Biodegradable waste, so 500 000 tonnes in landfills generates a million and 800 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent annually. And when we pull it out there, compost it, use it in agriculture, which is perfectly normal, it creates great benefits, reduces the need for plant protection, increases the ability to retain moisture and reduces the consumption of mineral fertilisers. And here we have a concrete distribution, so minus, pride of CO2 emissions, incomparable even with these million and 800 000 tons but minus. Plastics, look out we have CGOs, famous ones that we see still primarily funded, we hear here it's signed, etc., it goes, so CGO is your waste fuel factory. Burning plastic is not green fuel, the emissions from burning plastic is like emissions from fossil fuels. And those 300,000 tons of plastic, for example. If that's the amount, it generates nearly 700,000 tons of CO2 a year, if we could burn it all down. Of course it's just CO2, when we burn plastics, there's still a series of other difficulties, so living, dioxins and other contaminants, and now we put it aside, but it exists. This plastic is highly recycled today's non-recyclability, or market failure, as a result of poor collection systems and the absence of sorting infrastructure. If we built these sorters and drove that plastic there locally, not far, locally, we'd be in a paper factory, not paper, plastics, we'd be constantly importing granulate, but our plasticists import and recycled and on account of the reduced process of production from waste plastics, we have a huge potential of quarter million tons per year of CO2. So the difference between those two is almost a million tons. So from plus to minus, from +700 to -250,000 tons. That's what it's all about, and there's jobs, but who's going to pay for it, so the thing is that now there's a mixed cost, here's going to be 150, 200 euros per tonne, the cost of that processing. Instead, if proper treatment is done with separate collection and sorting plants which are still not financed despite the fact that money has it could become goods on the municipal sector cheap goods or at least for nothing but then come the repairers who sort it, wash it, stain it, there is work but there is a difference in price because the granulate costs up to ten thousand kuna per tonne. So it makes sense and it's completely feasible and you can put it right into that plan. What you're going to write there is abstract and who knows best that it's not even verifiable, but okay, the European Commission is going to look for precisely verifiable items and we're going to grab again. We're going to win, we're going to get screwed, we're going to pay for the penalty, we're going to be unable to meet our goals, and who is one barbaric country, instead of following what reason says and we're going to spend as long as I mention that what we're saying is all the beautiful noble desires in this law, but the concrete implementation in one sector is so lagging behind that it screams. So we have a situation that 2.5 years without a single fair public call for that ecological infrastructure is one for sorters, but these are the conditions that it's easier to make a launch ramp for I don't know about becoming space. Whoever answered the phone, did anyone get it? No, so what's the problem, what's the sortery? So that's one simple thing that we can do with us, let's simplify things, and there's no limit give to anyone who wants it, because every ton stopped locally and converted into raw materials is both a contribution for the country and that contribution, even if they don't see it there because they don't have anywhere with that polystired yogurt, but someone's going to process it in the country and we have a balance sheet benefit, that's what it's about. However, our policy unfortunately has no horizontal connection and we are in big trouble and what is done. He mentioned colleague Bulj, I guess I don't know which way that decision to close the dump, but it's absurd, it's absurd to close the dump without providing an alternative. What it means is how someone could have thought of doing it. So these are dumps of similar sanitary quality and create such cost and new ecological damage, new emissions, because you know there's some kind of emissions for every transport, and it's not just in the form of CO2, particles, this, tires, and what that means, so it has nothing to do with smartness. Why are we doing this? I don't understand, it's not a matter of political competition, but it has no reason as well as this regulation that you have passed that prescribes a single price in the same category for all regardless of size, so it directly strikes in the very sense of the polluter pays principle, that there is a first weight and that is the size of some service user. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178669	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178670	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly and the Honorable Secretary of State, I listened carefully to your lecture and the taste of what I pulled, I think you may be a little one-sided because I personally think that waste should be recycled as possible, the garbage that needs to be physically reduced and nowhere and I didn't hear you mention how to solve it, the burner, you were in Vienna, you saw. There are incinerators in many European cities where the amount of waste is reduced physically because all landfills pollute the environment, water streams and I think this should be considered. You can comment now because you're not in a position to determine, but there's a secretary of state and the ministry should think about it. Thank you very much. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178671	Dear Representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178672	Well, it certainly is my task to appeal and speak, if for no one else's sake, then for my children and for other children who will inherit all this which seems to be today. We can meet and talk about burning, so the burners are interested in the same material that is interested in recycling. So the most valuable materials for recycling are also the most valuable ones for burning, it's paper and plastic. Priority is such, by environmental quality, by environmental principles, that we should first exhaust recycling because it is more quality for our environment to store resources, reduce pollution, it is locally better even in terms of economics and local jobs because the burner plants are large, massive, those when they are built usually there are these counters, not the radius pay but the way or pay, so the capacity is constant you have to keep feeding it and that mass of units brake, separate collection systems of recycling. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178673	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so today we are discussing this, I would call it an ecological package of laws and what I want to discuss, or the topics I want to talk about, are the Law on Climate Change and the Protection of the Ozone Layer and Air Protection. So these are the top topics in the world today, and they are not only being discussed by the EU but also the whole world. I was in the 7th month at a thematic conference in New York, in the UN where most of the topics discussed today are the whole world, as well as the goals of sustainable development, and as much as we all talk here today, that the changes that we all do together and that we have to make are slow and difficult to see, I think it's good for both Europe and for, once again, I'm going to repeat to all the countries of the world, that the problem is recognized and that it's being discussed and that some solutions are being sought. Now, what I'm saying is, this is all right for us to pass these laws, and it's okay for these EU directives that we bring and adopt as a country. However, I think that the action that should be done as a state should be a little wider than the adoption of these laws, the adoption of some directives and regulations of reform, because the EU said this, rather than that we might be able to contribute to some of these problems in concrete matters. What do I mean? We had four rounds of full tax reform in this high house three, four weeks ago. And let's say there was a story about excise duties, we've been talking about excise duties for two and three years, for example. In addition to the value component, imports of cars and Croatia have an ecological component that affects the calculation of excise duty when we talk about importing cars. Unfortunately, in my opinion, in this calculation of excise duties is a greater emphasis on that value than on the ecological component. So it is still cheaper to import old vehicles in Croatia than new vehicles. Now, new vehicles are also polluting, but far, far less since these engines that are being done today, mainly diesel engines are today's technology much, much more advanced than five or ten years ago. And now what's going on with us? Because of the standard of citizens, because of these burdens that are such on new vehicles of relatively favourable imports of old vehicles, we are becoming an EU dump. And now the same EU is making some resolutions and strategies, so it has the European Commission's conclusion that every country in the next, I don't know, five years has to reduce CO2 emissions in its area. And now Croatia has, say, ten times the number of one Germany that's bigger and that's understandable. But what does Germany do? So Germany in the water couple, not a couple doing politics to get rid of that old fleet. Now this old fleet is coming to Croatia, and pollution knows no bounds. It will not stay in Croatia and reach the German border and say you are doing stronger measures and we will stop there. The other story is these electric vehicles, so that's some future, and we have a bunch of illogicality in the country with electric vehicles. So the state gives certain incentives or subsidies for the purchase of electric vehicles, I think it's still too little and it's not enough and it should be significant, significantly higher because these vehicles are expensive because of their environmental technologies and it's much cheaper to buy a normal car than an electric car. But we have one absurd to say incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles when there are no legal persons at all, and I think that larger quantities of electric vehicles can be obtained precisely by legal persons should be the first driver of so companies, businesses, state institutions. So maybe the state should turn among the first to that green energy. And then, by example, you should show your citizens what kind of path that should be. But then we should work on that, and let's say the IRS. The other one of the illogicalities is not great, but you pay an electric vehicle environmental protection fee when registering. She's small, but it's on a symbolic level, the level isn't normal. You have a vehicle that drives 100% on electrical current, and you pay for air pollution. What kind of air is polluted in there? So these are all the things that we or the government should work on and fully, not just the Ministry of Environmental Protection with certain laws and regulations and directives that we adopt both in this High House but in certain concrete works and concrete things. So that's one bigger story and a wider policy. I was also surprised that Croatia is at the top of the world by implementing the sustainable development goals, so let's be at the top then and in these other measures. So let's turn to new technologies, green energy, so let's move a little bit more along this example of the vehicle. And I really think there's a lot we can do there and there should be maybe more coordination between all the ministries and the entire government. I've taken this opportunity on this law and I don't have any objections, but I've taken the opportunity to point out some of these things that I think should put an emphasis on in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178675	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178676	Thank you very much. Dear Djujic, it is good that you have pointed out the problem of our tin pets that everyone is very sensitive to and it is not good to become a cemetery of such cars in one hour for the simple reason that when it comes to taking care of these cars when they become, so when you can no longer use them, it is much more expensive than those who are environmentally acceptable. And I have to say, my son doctored on engines and the way the engines were used, and then I asked him a very simple question because he was comparing all possible energies and I asked him a very simple question, which you think would be best, would there be some kind of ecological fuel, would there be electricity or anything, and he answered what people would buy the most. Each industry will adapt, each of them has its advantages and weaknesses, and each industry will adapt to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178677	Thank you. Answer, the esteemed representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178678	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly what my colleague is, and that's why I think the future is in electric vehicles, and there's now a time to make it as a country one step. So people don't buy it because it's expensive because it's a car 50% more expensive electric than a diesel car and the only reason is the price. And I believe you're going to do a poll amongst people so that people prefer to choose electric vehicles. There are two reasons, because it's ecological, but the other thing is cheaper. We today, today whoever has an electric vehicle in Croatia has the cost of running a zero because all the charging stations in the country are basically still free at this point because it's such a number. So you come here to Tuškanac where we stop every day you have a charger and you charge the car for free and you drive and all the people would go there, but if they could buy that car for a relatively decent price. And that state needs to jump in with incentives and encourage it even more and make it possible for legal persons, once again I say that they can get cheaper electric vehicles for them now there's no incentive.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178679	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178680	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we have always had you in a campaign, that campaign that was related to the European Parliament, and now that you've watched little of the other countries and topics that were topics that were in the campaign of some other countries, there it is, primarily climate change topics. And then at one point, one of the journalists on one television asked me, and why you in the EU-related campaign parliament that was boring, you don't usually have a topic of climate change, and on Slovenian television there was a debate on climate change for 2 hours. I say you call for a TV, and we'll discuss it. He's got experts, he's got ideas, he's got stories. I feel like we think it's happening somewhere else, that someone else decides, that we in Croatia, that we're so small, so now it doesn't matter what happens, we can't influence it. I don't think so. I think we should discuss this, I think we should point to the little things, and I think we should now bring to some levels what kind of economy we are going to develop in Croatia and what we want to do for Croatia to be somewhere, in 2050 at the level of sustainable development, at the level of environmentally acceptable things. So you see that 20% of our GDP makes tourism. And now look at what's going on in tourism. Let's just say, you've already got catering facilities, or cafes or anywhere, where you come in and you have them there, that they have nothing plastic, there's no plastic coffee spoons, there's no plastic straws, and we say it all that way, okay, it doesn't matter, but I've been recently and says we have straws that are made of apples. So from the apple bark, you have that straw and then you drink some juice, then that straw is broken down, or eventually you eat it, or I don't know what it's all about. It's a new job. So, it's not a job now that you're going to develop some heavy, serious industry, but it's a job for an individual, it's a job for some small family craft or family crafts, so what it is when you face the problem that climate change is, which is caused by you can develop new jobs and offer new types of jobs to citizens in Croatia. So that's what you need to recognize, that's what you need to invest in, that's what you need to see. I'd like to point out three specifics in this individual debate. I, as long as I am in this House, will use every opportunity to talk about climate change, to talk about the need not only to have legislation that is right but also to have some activity. One topic is industry and construction material. It also has to do with the waste, so when you go to build something, reconstruct or whatever you take down, and what you take down goes, you have a special disposal of construction waste. It seems safe to me, or alone, to experience other countries, to process construction waste, to create new values, to create new blocks, to create thermal blocks is something to encourage, which should be further to certain measures of tax policy, to encourage it to happen, to build up such things, to have those green printers, green certificates, because the construction industry is one of the very pro-pulsive and rapidly growing branches. The second topic is the topic already mentioned by Mr. Djujic, which is importing cars. There's no ideal solution. What's important is public transport. So there's our personal cars for our personal use, but it's the subject of public transportation. It's public transport that's a polluter. On the one hand, it really needs to be changed and made sure that you, therefore, the fund used for public transport, are changed, that people are driven by different measures to be used more and equally, in this way you're actually talking about reducing CO2 in cities at all. Equally for us for individuals, we should significantly release the giving of clean cars. Why? So the import of old diesels in our country works all the time. Because of those who import, then you have certain taxes that are, but eventually that car will stay here. Someone's gonna have to take care of him when he goes to the junkyard. There will be the next problem, and that will take care of all of us from the budget through waste management. So, you need to free those who, therefore, do not punish but release those who import clean cars. What are the clean cars? We're talking about electric cars right now, but you have electric cars, so there's no electric cars, there's no perfect answer. On the one hand, with electric cars, you have electricity that's recharged, which has to be produced somewhere. So it does not come in itself, which must be produced somewhere, and in electric cars you have a battery problem or everything else, taken care of after all that is still an additional contaminant. So, they all have their pluses and flaws, but we need to figure out what we want to be because, like, I'm going back to when I started on tourism. You once offered a hotel in tourism, offered a place on the beach and hotels even measured according to the number of towels that fit on the beach. People don't care anymore, other species are tourism, there's going to be once ecological tourism, people want to come ecologically acceptable somewhere. You like having family hotels today, so like this, you'll have hotels that even travel agencies have, you have people who don't want to travel on planes but want to travel differently, so they're not freaks, they just have some consciousness, and that's one of the elements that we can really have a comparative advantage here, and I'm going to go back once again, a topic that is extremely dear to me, it's a theme of railroad. So, rail transport in Europe, which is small compared to when Europe is territorially compared to America, with India and China, the whole of Europe is small. Railway transport is a traffic that develops, Croatia will either develop and come to a map or will not or will stay there in some glove. When you talk to young people or people who are in business, they say I prefer to travel by train than by plane. I've got to get to the plane, I've got to get to it early, so I'm a little out of town, I can't work on a plane because of course they're all working so I can't say how much. He says I get on the train, he's safe, he gives me days of fog, so I can land, I can't land, I'm comfortable and I can work. What you look at, look at me, are hot examples from Italy that are beginning to develop rapidly, so if one is the concept of a car and in general is Italy, they are rapidly developing their rail network precisely for the reason that they become more attractive on that map at all in Europe. So what should be taken into account at this point should really not be so shy and not in the way it is. When I was in college, it was in the last century, from Zagreb to Belgrade you traveled by rail for 4, 4.5 hours, to Rijeka you traveled for 2 hours. Today, Zagreb-Rijeka is about 4.5 hours for Belgrade, I don't know who goes to Vinkovac and goes on as long as it travels. The railway is certainly in the transport sense of Europe's future is fast, is environmentally acceptable and because in this way absolutely those countries that recognize it will be on the map of Europe absolutely more acceptable. And one last thing. It would be good when the next time the European Parliament adopts a resolution that... primarily at a symbolic level points to the environmental crisis, that HDZ MPs in the European Parliament are voting for it, rather than to get out that one word on behalf of that resolution has not been perfectly affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178681	We have two replicas. He's the first respected Uncle's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178682	Thank you. You colleagues in your debate have devoted part of your car import, especially diesels. It was this year that this meeting of the Parliament on 21 October that it declared the National Day of Road Safety. The average age of the vehicle in the Republic of Croatia is 12.6 years, which is quite high. Now if our citizens are importing diesels that are far younger than that for two, three years, I think it is far better to enable such imports than to drive in vehicles an average of 12.6 years old, they are old, exhausted and of course a far greater risk of traffic safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178683	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178684	Thank you very much. So it really needs to be kept in mind that traffic safety is something once you've made a mistake someone who's been in bio-trafficking is gone and that's what really needs to be taken care of. But what I wanted to highlight through my debate, I wanted to highlight the fact that we should not punish certain tax measures but make it easier for our citizens to really motivate them to import environmentally acceptable cars. A man will go to take what is most financially acceptable to them, most logically, he will go to see what is most secure to them. But where the state is, where it is important for the state to take certain measures, by reducing the excise duty they encourage to import environmentally acceptable cars. You know there are even those cars that are under the stars compared to safety defined. I even advocate that those who have 4 or 5 stars get some benefit to import such cars.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178685	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178686	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. I'm a railway man, so now you remind me of the situation, you say the railroad is the future, and in fact the railroad is the past. You know why it's the past? Because in the past we drove 50 minutes from Kutina to Zagreb, and today we drive an hour and 25 minutes fast train, so Kutina-Zagreb for more than half an hour has extended the journey because the railway is in poor condition. So people can say a lot, so look how old those trains are, like, the old ones. Hungary really is 30 years old, 40 years of our railroads, and then people get on that train somewhere. But it's not a train problem, that train even the way it is can drive 120km/h. We have secure security devices that allow speed up to 160km/h, but the railway road track does not allow that speed and therefore we are where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178687	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178688	Thank you very much. I also compared how quickly certain parts of the last century and how much they came today. We can get and decide to get trains that go 250 an hour when they have nowhere to drive. So, basically, I agree with the infrastructure. What you talk about, so this octopus, which will be tied to the EU by 2025, will be for investment in infrastructure. Those who will be ready, those who will not be ready will not receive. So I'm sure the world is changing, what's worth today isn't worth two months or two years, but when you look at territorial Europe and when you talk to people who travel a lot, you do different jobs today. You can work for a company based in Helsinki from Zagreb and once a month you go there. So that's where you have to adapt, the countries that will have better economic progress before the adjustments, and that's why I talk every time, invest in rail infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178689	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We are talking about bill proposals, these are actually laws that come from Brussels and that we should say something about air, climate change and everything that is related to it. Protecting from climate change, the problem of climate change, is one of the key problems of modern man and humanity and is indeed looking for a comprehensive action of all peoples, or all the communities of life. Our time shows that homo sapiens as a reasonable being is not working because what his brain is like with the only creature that has the ability to think and question the purpose of everything he has done and what he does shows that we are not beings who have reached that level to act preventively according to what they have done in the previous period. More specifically, capitalism that's been on the scene for about 200 years, it's messed up and dirty the planet, it's ruined. Its basic motive is to raise capital and we, as children by school and otherwise by portals, learn that the basic purpose of capitalism is to maximise profits. It's basically because no one who owns a factory, some business, is his primary goal of getting as much wealth as possible. But since our brain is working so that we realize in advance that the planet is an area of limited resources because the population is growing and therefore, we are exhausting this planet and it's already showing that we can easily conclude that if we take as an eternal fact the maximization of profits as basic fuel and the motif of capitalism, we will simply destroy the planet in some period of T+N. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of these knowledge from strategic foundations, we must go because if we do not understand this, then we will deal with collecting bottles of plastic, bags which are also meaningful but let's solve the problem at root and source. We in the party in Change Croatia are starting to think about problems like this. That's why we're a party of serious people and experts who know solutions and we offer solutions and we want to help this government solve it that way. Or let's see where the main problems are so this won't be my presentation of a typical professor's lecture, it's not my goal. I take with very concrete arguments as I always do, means to participate in this debate. So let's see how we can protect Croatia from this particular pollution, how to preserve it, we're still among the cleanest countries in terms of soil, water and air even though we can't control air, it goes there and here but what do we do? Let's go. Problem number one, so since N. Tesla, Tesla has discovered how electricity can be transmitted remotely, all of a sudden these papers are gone. Well, it's not an accident, so people didn't invent a year ago that a car could be driven on an electric motor and on batteries. That could have been done a long time ago. So they mean corporate capitalism doesn't want to do it, why? Because now he can't break down the internal combustion engine plants overnight, the top would be huge costs. Why are electric cars expensive today? Well, that's exactly why, that's why. Why don't they build railways especially in Croatia according to these, let's say, surrounding places around Zagreb, around large centres? The suburban settlements? Zapresic, V. Gorica, D. Selo? In this segment lies the future, so a rail driven by electricity, well developed, it could be very much but Croatia invests nothing, but during that time it was invested to build hundreds and hundreds of kilometers of highways where it smokes, where it is polluted, I'm not saying it shouldn't, but it has to be invested because this is the future if we want to protect ourselves. Furthermore, the fundamental role in stopping this kind of capitalism where the only goal is to raise capital as in animals, means the animal knows how much it needs, the squirrel that needs to be accumulated to survive over the winter, but in this one image of capitalism, it's not known, it's that savage motif where states are in debt, collapse, war on credit like America, and some of the highest entrepreneurs, they have $50, 100 billion. So that's one totally amazing approach. If the man is a homo sapiens, then he must come to this conclusion that we live with limited resources. What did America do to European, auto-industry? I'll remind you of the case from 2016, exactly three years ago, the U.S. courts punished Wolkswagen with 14.5 billion dollars, why? Because they lied about 470 or I don't know what, 500,000 cars they sold, they declared the CO2 emissions less than they did, and the Americans charge 14.5 billion dollars, but that cost is going to be far higher. So I suggest to you gentlemen from the Ministry of Ecology, in this beautiful little country, not so many cars are sold but still sold, why has no one ever filed a lawsuit against those who delivered these same cars to the Croatian market and asked international courts that Croatia, the citizens we were deceived, be compensated for being polluted because of the polluted air in the Republic of Croatia? These are state decisions, it's an example of how to work because if America can punish for the same cars that we're importing, so why can't we do the same? So, the only living communities, you see, we have to start talking about life communities because more or less in developed capitalism in no country of life communities have power. Corporate capital, financial oligarchy, took everything in the world and it drives the world and directs the planet wherever it wants. Fortunately, there are calls of self-destruction in everything, and therefore, we must work on building a completely new system where the interests of the community of life, which is to protect the health of individuals, the living communities living in that area, the environmental taxes, the paying of penalties, will be extremely important in this whole story. And in this, a key role must be played by the state if it represents its people, its living community. The current countries do not represent their peoples, specifically in Croatia do not represent their peoples, so they represent the interests of the capital of financial oligarchy or any other corporate capital. So we have to talk about it this way if we want to solve it. And now that on the entire planet, you see more and more people, we're aware that glaciers are melting, the climate is growing, so it's increasing. Croatia has become, there will be large migrations, they have already started, not only because of work, but also because of climate change. So we have to get involved in this because never before has this Parliament organised a plenary session on climate change, on air protection, on laws means against excessive CO2 emissions, etc., something now and European directives but these are the meanings of their interests above all. Let them pay for lying to us, for selling us cars that poison our air like they paid the Americans, that's the point, then we'll call this government and these institutions a country that deserves to be paid taxes because if it doesn't, gentlemen don't deserve to be paid and the tax is defending our interests. So the story of climate change is comprehensive, deep, wide, and I come back if he calls himself a homo sapien, a reasonable being, then we need to understand the purpose of all this happening and where to start and how to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178691	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178692	Thank you very much. When we talk about this law that's been proposed, then I have to say that I express my dissatisfaction regardless of what's in this law, but I have to talk about what's going on in reality, meaning what's going on with our environments, in this case with the air. I asked you if you'd like to speak with me at the time of the replica, i.e. I'm going to ask you to answer that, and I can see that you didn't sign up. What effect will it have on shutting down 27 means dumps where they will be transported hundreds of miles with trucks 20, 30 years old from one place to another on the highway, so it will be CO2 which will, of course, not only be more expensive, Vrgorčanin what transports from one sense that has the same sanitary conditions to another than air pollution. I asked you what was the impact of that inspection decision, i.e. from your ministry to this one, we're talking about this law? So, in that case, you deny yourself. We're passing the law to protect the air, in order to reduce CO2 even though there's nothing out of it because constantly through the Ministry of the Environment they're pushing harmful projects, so people have to organize themselves like in the case of "Don't give up Cetino" because we need to know that the Peru power plant that was planned for 700 kg of exhaust gas would be released in a minute and of that would mean, 2% of the CO2 but it wasn't a problem to do on Cetina, and then they needed civil action, and even I'm fine, it didn't hit Mrs. Dalic, I remember as a minister, for no reason but to ask that this is a harmful project that brings no interest to the Republic of Croatia except that there will be more expensive electricity and that will be used inside a gas that is foreign gas, import gas. So, the effects are bad, so simply in reality when we talk about air pollution, here and the predecessor was talking here, it's simply not interested in multinational companies, car manufacturers to stop the fossil fuels being used because it's the interest of these, a few, minorities, a very small number of people who have huge capital, a huge wealth and they're holding us all by the neck and it's going to be as long as their wish is. Of course it's of interest to me to preserve the environment and mainly air in our area, to preserve our drinking water because everything that's connected to the air, of course, is also connected to the drinking water because these pollutants are essentially what remains on the highway from the vehicle, not just CO2 but everything from the vehicle, from windscreens for washing, oil, motor fuels, gasoline, everything that turns out to be on the highway, leaving in... caves, e.g. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The caves in the area of Dupolje, which end artificially, which finishes everything that is washed away, ends in the Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's just that we're not doing anything, nothing is using fossil fuels, not us like us, but simply stakeholders because of fossil fuels and oil and everything is at war... they will have a huge profit, and it will work that way and at least they need CO2 and we should be protecting our environment, our air and our nature, and here I see that Croatia would rather turn into a mere conversion field, we see that only zero miners in areas that have been evicted, here in my territory of the Cetin area we now have an example in Glavica, there is one beam of fantastic, natural landscape with endemic species, but now it wants to exploit the mold, the stone that would be sold probably in Italy, of course, that the citizens are now joining the citizens in the civic initiative and that it will stop the tree simply in Glavica which is the largest village, the village which has no status of the municipality that and here the former prime minister Milanić, of course will rise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll do my best to make sure that miner doesn't start building if we only have a hundred yards in the distance we have another miner where this one's being taken out. So it's just that, and that's where the head cabbage was known, where people live, where and of course there is and now there's a group of activists recently founded where they don't give, we don't give a beam where people will stop those intentions of the exploitation field. And it's all about exploitation, I've talked to 1.001 times here about a black hill where the very Serb national minority is alive, absolutely nobody cares, we have a European Court ruling, we have a problem with Plitvice Lakes, we have a number of other problems mainly about the disposal of these waste dumps. Waste management is catastrophic, so we just have this economic waste management center where so far it's supposed to be 30, invested, but you can't see where it's invested. The Lečevica Waste Management Centre, we see Mariščina, which is why Lečevica, so he will have to re-carry waste by vehicles to the waste management centre if it is like Mariščina, and we know that there are water. We're not protecting anything, so people and locals are opposed, because if it's connected to the Adriatic River, to the Cetin River, to the springs that we've already given to foreigners in their hands, and now we're going to be carrying garbage from one hill to another hill. Instead of compostane, sorters said it by Mr. Slaven Dobrović, I think he knows the matter here, Mr. Professor Stanko Ursic who also participated in the project where it is best that island of Krk, the largest part of the waste is this on the spot separated about 60%. And in this way, we're actually jeopardizing the environment of CO2 because of course they're not going to drive it into a carillo to their hands, but they're going to transport trucks that are 20, 30 years old because local self-governments don't have the financial capacity to have modern vehicles, electric vehicles that carry it. These are trucks that are ecological, I don't even know if they meet the standards, how old they are, and local self-government and citizens don't have the money to buy it. And of course this law is falling right away, you're throwing this law at yourself. So I don't think this is good. I'm going to point out once again that I'm expressing dissatisfaction with the behavior on the ground. We must not convert these 2/3 of Croatia which are empty into an exploitation field and into a trash can, we must not convert it. So all of these laws that we have passed, which we have received as directives from the EU, under the Para-Paratic Agreements, these agreements, we simply cannot allow Croatia to turn into a trash can, because tomorrow all nuclear waste from all nuclear power plants will happen to come to the Republic of Croatia if we behave like this. According to me, the only thing we have is air, clean still somewhat, water and agricultural land, we have the sea, agricultural land that is still ecologically preserved, unfortunately 700,000 square acres of this hectare is not even processed. So if we're talking about air then we have to do everything we can to protect that air as much as we can as a small country, but on the most beautiful piece of not Europe, but the world, because we have all the conditions to preserve our environment, to be sustainable development, to plan our agriculture. Unfortunately, everything, from my Dalmatian mountain to Slavonia, has come down to these interests of the company. So we say that we're going to have something to do with CO2 reduction, unfortunately very little, electric vehicles are too expensive if we talk about vehicles that are mentioned, interesting lobbies will always push fossil fuels while it exists, water and wars for it, and even invented that in Iraq there was chemical weapons, were weapons, weapons like this, nuclear weapons, at last nothing was found, it was simply an oil interest. As long as someone dominates it on the market and while it's profitable on the market they won't produce electric vehicles in the sense that they're acceptable to the price, nor, and in that fight we only have to protect our environment, not that the miners and the exploitation fields that are bloody wounds in mine, I was born 100 meters from the miners. On the one hand, on the other hand, so they intended to reschedul this rescheduling material to be delayed into the salty rocks, that was what Mladneo wanted, to be put off in the salty rocks of the Long War industrial cost along with that miner where I was born. I became an activist for those things, I didn't give. So also in this case, Glavica, where a natural landscape is wanted to be destroyed so that someone would sell in Italy the stone blocks of mud, which is appreciated in Italy, and they won't, we won't let them, I am personally sending them a message right now. Just like the garbage from Vrgorec i.e. The waste which is the triba, which is the most expensive, is for the Vrgorcites, and the Sinjans will not put it off. But he'll make them a miner. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178693	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on these points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178694	Final proposal of the Air Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 681. Proposer of the Government. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee adopted and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Air Protection Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 84 for, 34 abstentions have been passed the Air Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178869	The next item to which we move is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Selection of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 683 is proposed by the SDP Representatives Club, based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this legislative proposal should be discussed in an urgent manner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. This item shall be included in the agenda of today's session in accordance with Article 228(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178870	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Club of Representatives of the SDP proposes to amend the two articles of the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, and that Article. 20th and 24th, Art. 33rd of this law. We propose that the Law on Elections of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia be brought into line with all other electoral laws in force in the Republic of Croatia concerning the composition of the electoral committees. The Law on Elections of Representatives in HS, and the Law on the Elections of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament, stipulates that the composition of the electoral committees should be defined in a way that is made up of representatives of political parties and is proportionately equal to the representatives of the majority political parties and representatives of opposition political parties. Similarly, the Law on Local Elections combines the composition of city councils, or county congregations, where elections are held simultaneously for the city councils and for the county congregations. In such elections, there were no greater objections to the regularity of the election, thus all political parties could actively participate in the control of the elections in the best possible way, which is that competitors and rivals control each other. In the Law on the Elections of the President of the Republic, it remained a reciprocation of the 1990s, and such a provision was made in other election laws of the 1990s, which is that elections, election, electoral election committees would be impartial, i.e. members of the electoral committees determine the city's or municipal election committees or the City of Zagreb City. This provision is not good because the political parties participating in the elections for the President of the Republic, as well as in these elections for the President of the Republic, are involved in 20 political parties that supported their candidates with several other independent candidates and are, in fact, very few parties represented in HS that have not supported any candidate. I therefore assess that both political parties and in these elections have a desire to control the work of the electoral committees, to control each other so that what citizens put into boxes corresponds to what the DIP eventually publishes as a result of the election. The second amendment we propose concerns events when voting, or when taking over the ballots, which is that the voter, by his signature, confirms the takeover of the ballot. For example, we do not see why and thus would not allow better control of the election process, at least in the sense that if one of the members of the electoral committee has an indescribable desire to add to the favoured candidate a certain irregularly won vote in such a way as to insert a ballot into the box, to do so not only by rounding the number in front of a regular number in front of the voter's voter list whose vote wants to counterfeit, but also by doing a criminal act of falsifying the official document so that he must also sign it, and then it is very easy to determine the credibility of the signature. So let's say this government is resting on a single identification of the authenticity of the signature in one criminal procedure. So it seems to me that these solutions that we are proposing to contribute to better control and regulation of the election, if not then, in these other laws, there would be no provision left for political parties to appoint members of the electoral committees. The government's argument that, the government's opinion that we have received, and also the opinions of the parliamentary majority's representatives on the committees that discussed this law, has come down to, I would say, a transparent attempt to keep things from being called the right name. I will quote what the Government has written, so the Government considers an important point of view of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 24 September 2015 that HS should insist on a good parliamentary practice consisting of its abstention to adopt, amend or supplement electoral legislation one year before regular parliamentary elections are held. So, the Constitutional Court believes that HS should insist on good parliamentary practice does not speak about whether this solution increases or reduces the regularity of the election, whether it increases or reduces the control of the regularity of the work of the electoral lists, rather than just saying that HS should insist on some practice, that practice that this parliamentary majority has violated by making changes to the Law on the financing of political parties, political activities and election promotions when fellows from the Most have been there two nights before the elections were held, in order to show all the absurdity, the government's wishes and parliamentary majority's wish to change the law which in any way concerns the elections, not one year before the elections were held, but just less than two months before the elections were held, and a little less than 48 hours before the decision to call those same elections. The government has failed to say whether this is a solution that contributes to the regularity of the elections or not. You know why? Because she knows that she also contributes to the regularity of the election and because she also wants to say that she is not in the best interest of the elections being to that extent regular. And you know why? Because the current election committees are appointed by the city and municipal election committees. In the City of Zagreb, for example, Malta is not required by an ad to report members to election committees. In smaller units of local self-government in several consecutive election cycles for various elections, so-called Familiarising city election committees or municipal election committees with municipal authorities. You know why? Because they have their own premises in municipal spaces because they have no place else in small areas, because they cooperate with either the chief, or with officials in small areas, and in my opinion there is such a family relationship that can absolutely have an impact on independence or at least the impartiality of election committees, and who will then be recommended as a non-partisan person on election committees. I do not understand why this election process should remain the cloud, the black cloud of suspicion that the government, the parliamentary majority of the parties that make up the parliamentary majority or candidates who support the parties that have, which participate in the parliamentary majority, and I think it is only one candidate because other parties in parliament do not support any other candidate other than Mr Dejan Kovac, I apologize that HSLS has its candidate from the parliamentary majority. So, which is why she wants to leave that cloud, the cloud of suspicion, so here I am seeing that I have a lot of replicas, and I think that someone in the replicas is going to say that I don't have to answer it here, because I really wouldn't be very okay, just in the first sentence, in the first address, saying that someone thinks to steal the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178871	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if something is good for elections for the European Parliament, if something is good for elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, if something is good for elections for municipal and city councils, for mayors, mayors and mayors, then I can't imagine what reason someone would have to say that it's not good for elections for the president of the Republic, unless it's what you said, and that's that someone is counting on using this regulation, the fact that it's connected with people in election committees, in Zagreb is headed by the election committee Mr. Turudic, who was supposed to be Karamark's minister, so we know how much we can trust him. So if all these facts are in mind then the answer to the question that you yourself have asked is very clear. Someone wants to hunt in a blur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178873	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178874	Except for what I'm pointing out, and you said, without the intention of having this little bit of what's being said to the divorcee, I have one more reason to think about it. According to our proposal, there would be 17,000 members of the HDZ in election committees for the President of the Republic. Therefore, the HDZ government does not want 17,000 HDZ members to be on election committees. Maybe they're afraid they'll work for another candidate, maybe, imagine 17,000 people being members of the HDZ not to engage in the election because they're afraid they're going to work for another candidate. It's possible the same interpretation, but I believe this is the first one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178875	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178876	Thank you. One question, were you, given the circumstances that your law was not put into discussion when you were expecting it, and you proposed it at the end of August, it was now, of course, at the time when the elections were called, and if it had been passed, it would not have been possible to apply to these elections, if you had considered, as representatives of the SDP Club, that this bill was going into two readings, that we would have discussed not only these two provisions that you have proposed but that we should actually discuss this law now at the moment when it cannot be applied to these elections anyway, but that we should really discuss this important law in full and a series of other provisions that might be worth reviewing and then give the opportunity to actually discuss it in two readings and possibly pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178877	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178878	At the moment we proposed it, we didn't even think about going in two readings because we wanted to allow the government to put one good solution that she had promoted and applied in all other laws into the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. After the government's opinion has become clear that in this meeting, such a law will not be passed, so it is obvious that the government has no interest in correcting the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, and then the parliamentary majority will not even accept that this law goes into second reading. Why would they anyway, if they didn't want to hear our accusations twice that they did it in the presidential election or that they tried to do it or that they didn't do it. Therefore, I do not expect that parliamentary size in any variant will release this law into another reading because in 6 months we can propose a similar law again, and you can propose it before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178879	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178880	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues may call this proposal a legal solution by the SDP Club lex alibi. I think it becomes clear to everyone that their candidate for the country's president, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, loses the election and now needs membership, sympathisers, voters, to prepare for the loss of elections, the commissions and election committees and the media, perhaps voters and all but their candidates, and their candidate is the former prime minister in charge of 70 billion, tens of thousands of jobs have been lost, or in the entire work of the mandate, and you don't have one plus government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178881	Thank you, fellow Striker. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178882	Mr. Vice-President, I find it difficult to refer to an article because it is not an article, but to the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system adopted by HS, which concerns the conduct of a political campaign in the assembly. As you know, the political campaign started at 12 o'clock by publishing the list, the DIP warned parliamentary deputies already during the European Parliament elections that we should not be campaigning in the assembly, and you are the vice president of the HDZ, so I'm counting on you not to be financially punished because your colleagues and colleagues in the way your colleague Strick ran the campaign in the assembly, so please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178883	I thank my colleague, Peja Grbin, I don't think this has been like any kind of campaign, but here's thank you for that information and remarks, so I hope all my colleagues and colleagues will take that into account. We have an answer, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178884	Mr. Striker, I have to say that it's very difficult for me to respond to your replica without hurting the DIP's instructions because now I'd have to say what one of the candidates you mentioned was doing positively, and you were actually asking me to name one plus and how I'm going to count one plus when the campaign started not to be a campaign. Do you have that logical, logical possibility? Do you have any idea how I'm supposed to do it, here I am, if the DIP didn't punish my party and 12 other parties who supported the candidate and for which there are a lot of pluses that I can't talk about here because of these provisions, thank you. But as for the alibi, one of the candidates, I have 15 seconds left, so first if you want an alibi, if you don't want an alibi, it's the easiest thing for you to accept this law because the alibi is something that is, which is credible, isn't it? So you're saying it's credible that maybe the election will be irregular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178885	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178886	Thank you very much. In the final presidential election of HDZ candidates in the Republic of Croatia, Bauk received 1800 votes more than Ivo Josipovic's candidate, does it not seem to you to be hiding the reason for this refusal of our law because the multilateral observer bodies can certainly ensure that there are no unwanted events in the polling stations, and the president's adviser, former adviser to the HDZ Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic yesterday, said "I believe that the past presidential elections in the Republic of Croatia have been stolen", I think that this statement by former HDZ Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's adviser is very much talking about what he thinks of HDZ's intentions in the upcoming presidential elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178887	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178888	So as for the differences in past presidential elections, this does not fall within the campaign for these elections, according to them legitimately, that the elections were very narrow in the Republic of Croatia, but even when the votes of all Croatian citizens who had the right to vote were summed up, while the candidate who won at the time had less than 50% of the votes that went to the elections, so she had a majority of 49.8% and so on. I always say so. the non-party election committees, as it would be very interesting to ask political parties to submit their membership lists to check whether they are legitimate election committees, since the list of members of political parties is not, is not a public register. Therefore, there is a question of both regularity and such choices because we have no guarantee that members of the electoral committees will be, not members of some political party, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178889	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178890	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk, I don't know what your reason for your organized confusion is that you now want to place among Croatian citizens a few days before the election, is it really what we heard your candidate's fear of losing the election, whether you really underestimate those appointed observers you think are illiterate and do not know how to collect the results in the end along with the electoral commission, either municipal, city or any other or any other person you really think should cast doubt on all the choices that have been made so far, and about the election for the president of the Republic, twice Mesic, once Josipovic, once Kolinda, did you really think that they were all illegal or were bad or because they were not members of the parties in the electoral commission that they didn't know how to collect, did Croatian democracy really come to the fact that we don't believe even the people who are more difficult to find sitting there, that at the end of here they would tell them that they didn't know that they't know that they't know that they't know that they't know that they were so much, or that they're afraid of anything, that they're afraid, or that they're afraid of 200 or that they're afraid of the fact, that they're afraid of the fact that they're afraid of the fact, that they're afraid of the fact that they're afraid of the fact that they're going to say, that they're going to say that they'? What you do regardless of all your fears, you won't pass. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178891	Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178892	In all the elections so far up to the past differences in the candidates' votes, it was so much so that there was no doubt that the candidate who won more votes and won and the story was not current, in the previous elections the difference was very small. As far as the SDP election boards are concerned, and I believe HDZ has no problem finding members of the election boards or their members who would like to be members of the election boards. If this solution applies to the law of the European Parliament, to the HS, to local self-government, and even to local committees as the lowest part, then why is it problematic to apply it in elections for the President of the Republic, since the 1990s, this solution has been worth everything, and then it has changed everywhere except the Law on the elections of the President of the Republic, so let's get this straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178893	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178894	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Bauk. I cannot agree with your claim when you said that the ruling majority would not accept that law. I think he will, and I think he should, because if you're so good and you're so successful, if you don't have any dilemmas, so I don't see the problem with accepting that law. It does not apply to these presidential elections anyway, it will refer to the next and let's show that there is no law and there is no framework that will be stronger than the candidate who will go to the elections because the candidate who is convinced that these elections will be won and that there is no law that will prevent him from really being that way. So I think it's an interest for all of us to even the practice, to have the same law that's going to be applied everywhere because the best is always the best, no matter how we organize and how we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178895	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178896	What the ruling will do for now is testify only to the government's opinion and votes on the board, if fellow Simic, on behalf of the HDZ Club, does not surprise us with anything really radical right now. As regards the application of the law, it will apply when it enters into force. If we vote it tonight and put it into effect on the first day of the day of publication in the National Journal and it will be published tomorrow, it will take effect from Saturday, hence, by 17.12. until the deadline for the appointment of election committees has quite enough time to apply, but of course, this debate would have been better if it had been before the election was called, but it wasn't so it doesn't matter. If the ruling majority wanted this to be applied, it would have proposed or proposed some amendments, so they would have passed such a law, so this is a debate to draw attention to what kind of regulation is currently present and what are the dangers of electoral fraud. In 2005, it took place under this law in one of the polling stations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178897	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm a colleague of Bauk's. So this bill of law greatly reduces the possibility of stealing in elections, electoral fraud. It can't eliminate 100% because that danger still exists, and I think this proposal is good because it's going to make it very difficult, but here we see what direction colleagues from HDZ are heading. We are not the ones who complain that they were stolen, so yesterday, former special adviser to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said that there was no evidence, but that the last elections were most likely stolen, Mr Kresimir Macan, because I see that you are looking at me palely, and that there is a danger that the next presidential elections will be stolen. So this is the person who advised the president of HDZ. The second thing, we all remember Tomislav Karamark crying and complaining that he had been stolen six terms. We did not cry and weep then. Karamarko also complained that he had evidence that he had been stolen six terms in parliament, so we propose this law so that you wouldn't complain again if someone had stolen something from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178899	Thank you. Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178900	Both of them you mentioned were ex-boyfriends. Maybe Plenkovic just replaced him because he told him that maybe the past election was stolen, we don't know that. Here, that's possible. So maybe that's why... And as for what Mr. Karamarko was saying, how much I followed what happened years after that, and I followed because I was curious, it looks like he got the one from the SMS affair. I think so. Yeah. But I remember that I was proving that there were 17 thousand HDZ members on election boards and that if someone was able to steal them in a way that the electoral board had determined one result, and that the election commission had put in another result to see it on these results that APIS had published and that they would only find one such polling post, and let alone imagine 6 mandates. That's 100,000 votes. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178901	Thank you. Dear colleague, please do not disturb your colleague Bauk as he responds to the replica. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178902	Dear colleague Bauk. In your presentation, you mentioned Mr Turudić and the city of Zagreb, but it is not stolen in large cities. They steal in small places, in rural areas, there is Slavonia and Lika most speculative and we know how to do it, Mr. Boric, just nod your head. It is known that in one county election, there was an enormous number of ballots in which they were invalid because they were surrounded by more than one candidate. It's easy to do this if you don't have control of the election board because when you have party control, then everyone controls everything, and as it is now set, there's a thorough doubt that these elections will be stolen and that HDZ will steal these elections because obviously the situation is not good and that it has to reach out because that is the case, then this law would have been passed, and when we talk about a party Thank you. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178903	Answer, Comrade Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178904	I'll have to explain what you said. Mrsic did not say that it is not stolen in large cities, but in small towns because people who live there because they do not steal those but those who are on election boards, so you do not have to do what, you do not have to do what, or apologize, they do not have a chance to steal them but those who are on election committees. Now, that's a very good situation. Let's say, let's say we had trouble filling the election boards, for example. in one part of the Dalmatian Zagora, and then MOST in the previous elections sent its members to the election board and suddenly HDZ got much less than before. Right? That's what you could see in the analysis because I analyzed it. So, and second correction, I didn't mention the gentleman you mentioned, but a colleague of the coat of arms in the replica. I think it's the record. So where there are multiparty election committees and where people work systematically and consciously, there's no way of coming until the theft. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178905	Dear colleague Bauku. You've replicated Mrssic's colleagues, not your colleagues... The intruder can't be heard. No, you don't have the right to do that, but I'm asking you to replicate in the future whoever gave you the replica and let's not generalize and accuse you. Here's my colleague, Boric. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178906	This Regulation shall enter I simply have to respond to these accusations from people who consider themselves above all others and say that elections are stolen in rural areas of the Republic of Slovenia in Slavonia and Lika. That's what people need to know and hear. That's what people say about their candidate that they need to shut their noses and vote for him. I think it's a shame one of the worst messages anyone could send on a bill here in the Croatian Parliament, the worst, to steal elections in rural space. Well, that's a shame... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178907	I thank my colleague, Boric. I've already asked my colleague Bauk to stay away from such statements in the future. So I don't think the Rules of Procedure was hurt. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178908	Thank you, dear Vice President. So for no choice, there was no ugly trail left behind the last presidential election. So, I'm inclined to believe this, and I haven't seen an article, but I'm inclined to believe what my colleague Zeljko Jovanovic said was a special adviser that said that the last elections were stolen. I don't see why someone with clear intentions, clean hands, a pure heart that someone would mind signing the voter's list. And what anyone would have against, after all, is to paint the model that we have in European elections, in local elections, etc., parliamentary at the end. I don't see what the problem is unless this guy really wants to hunt in a blur and then he's complaining about being robbed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178909	Thank you. Here's my colleague Bauk, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178910	What you mentioned among other things is written in the government's explanation. Therefore, taking into account the stability of the electoral system and the democratic environment, etc., that the basic elements of the electoral system should be changed no later than one year before the elections. Who would be damaged by the participants of the election by our changes so that it would be prohibited to change? No one. Because non-party members of the election board do not participate in the elections and political parties participate in the elections. Therefore, this bill would increase the security of all participants in the elections and would not reduce the safety of any participants in the elections. So what you said, I don't see why someone who has good intentions, clean hands, etc., would be against it. You can see clearly then that not all of them have the characteristics you don't see fit to be against this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178911	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178912	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Listening to the explanation of the SDP club which is the reason why the election law should be amended, I simply cannot believe it. As has already been said, more elections were made this way, they won the elections both Josipovic and Mesic and then the law worked. Now all of a sudden we say that the introduction of party persons into election committees will democratisation the whole thing and the non-party committees are not democratic. Well, that's totally contradictory of what everyone's always saying so far that non-partisan bodies are much more democratic than party bodies. In the end, all parties had the right to propose and have observers in all polling stations during the whole period of the law, and they mainly did so. Therefore, it guaranteed the democraticity of the election and that there are no injuries, especially thefts, because I think it's an insult to all those hardworking people who will be working on election committees in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178913	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178914	The word "steal" is an insult to all those people who have so far been worth it, but it's no insult to those people who have stolen. And that's how it was. You have one procedure for the State's Attorney's Office in 2005, you have local elections in some areas, also state's attorney's proceedings. Therefore, not everyone who was there and who didn't deserve to be called them. But what you said about non-party committees. At a time when Croatia was at its lowest level, according to the Council of Europe's criteria, non-partisan electoral committees were then transformed into party and parliamentary elections and local self-government elections and elections for the European Parliament. This is the only thing left as a relapse of those times when we were in international isolation and very low by the criteria when, for example, you couldn't choose a Zagreb mayor without a assembly but had to... countries, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178915	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to explain an additional opinion? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178916	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing a proposal to amend the Law on the election of the President of the Republic as soon as the presidential elections are called. So not with the intention that the bill promoter of the SDP's law to discuss this proposal earlier, but at the moment when we have this debate, when we are ahead of us, it's good to discuss this, but as I said in the short replica, it would be good to discuss this law now in two readings, and that second reading may be in the moment, and after the presidential elections, and we will have better and better knowledge of the implementation of this election process that is ahead of us and perhaps at that moment calmly with all the knowledge that we will have and more quality debate and decide on the amendments to the law. We definitely believe that this law should be amended at the Most Representatives' Club. It had to be changed much earlier, and not just these two provisions that are now being proposed, but there is a whole series of provisions to be amended. In addition, when representatives of OSCE observation missions came here and gave a lot of objections, objections, guidance to the legislator which should be amended for earlier presidential elections. Unfortunately, almost none of this has changed except in the section relating to the financing of the electoral promotion, we have passed a new law. Let me just mention that here is the representative of the Ministry of Administration one detail that no one seems to have mentioned to me, and that is the fact that the State Election Commission has submitted one draft of a whole electoral law to the Ministry of Administration, so one draft which they consider to be a whole electoral procedure for a whole series of elections that we have in Croatia. So both MPs and locals and presidents and that draft is in the Ministry of Administration. Since, indeed, there are a lot of arguments for one such code from a professional point of view, for the harmonisation of the different technical provisions on deadlines, the only application procedure, about the bodies implementing the elections, to be united, I also use the opportunity to discuss this law, that the Ministry of Administration should indicate the willingness to propose such a single whole law, especially when it has received one draft of the State Election Commission. Something about this proposal and in general what it contains and what the position of the club of representatives is. We must say that she really surprised us, and also worried about the statement you mentioned earlier in the debate, some MPs, who seemed to have given me yesterday a former special adviser to the Prime Minister, Mr Kresimir Macan, a communication expert when he said that at least his convictions had been stolen by the presidential election. Be careful when you make such a public statement very worrying and if you say I can't prove it, then it's extremely unfortunate not to say dangerously for the transparency and credibility of the presidential elections, both those who have been conducted as well as those who are coming to us. Such statements made in public must be explained, must be justified or better not to place such statements in public. Because today, here I am being received, that statement has been mentioned by several MPs, and indeed such a statement should not be left without a serious debate when we are discussing this law. Which is why a former special adviser to the Prime Minister has such thinking, since he is convinced that the past presidential elections have been stolen even though he has no proof of it. I think that all people involved in the elections in any way, and they also observe and analyze and give statements in public space, should be very careful when making such statements. In our view, the SDP proposes good changes, we have no objection to election bodies being multilateral, as is the case for the other elections we hold. So we think that this will create a higher level of trust for those entities competing in the elections and that we have good experience from the parliamentary elections both for the Croatian Parliament and for the European elections, and for the local elections and we see no reason why we should not also arrange the bodies that will conduct the election process for the President of the Republic. In that part, we have absolutely no objection and we support it. Likewise, the proposal that voters sign the ballot's receipt before the vote. I must say that I have personally witnessed in a series of elections that I have attended in other countries as a member of the OSCE observation mission that in the elections in other states voters really do when they take over the ballot they sign in a list of voters in that polling post, so they give their signature. I personally became convinced of a series of choices where I was an observer. And that also contributes to the credibility of the electoral process and we absolutely support such a change. And it should have been installed, not only for these elections, but for all the other elections we're making in the Republic of Croatia. Now something about a timing proposal of this law. What we could object to with the SDP, which is the fact that you were supposed to postpone these amendments to the law five years earlier. So, the latest amendments to the Law on Elections of the President were in October 2014 and I think that some of the MPs who were here and then were either MPs or ministers or in the executive government, but the SDP then seemed parliamentaryly greater. You have even proposed one amendment to the election promotion and these amendments were voted in October 2014. I think the opposition was against it, then the HDZ was in the opposition and they said it was not time for such changes to the law to be passed in the evening of elections. But after the election in January 2015 you were the parliamentary majority, you could propose amendments to the law and these amendments could have been passed at that time in 2015, especially if you had certain knowledge from those elections that something was wrong and that it would be good to have multiparty electoral bodies. The fact is, you could have done it if you had a government and a parliamentary majority and you didn't do it then. You suggested it practically a few months before these elections. I agree that multilateral bodies would contribute to the greater confidence of political actors and all those competing in the elections, but it is indeed too late to propose it. I agree here with the Government's opinion and the recommendation that amendments to the electoral legislation are not made in the year before the elections, although they themselves did not adhere to it when they amended and passed a new Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions which we all know under what circumstances the law was passed and entered into force immediately before the election to elect members to the European Parliament. So what HDZ is now saying in the government's opinion is, of course, correct, but you didn't stick to it when you passed the Law on the financing of political activities and which really went into effect two days before the vote was called. I would like to remind the public once again that we are then representatives of a series of opposition parties, and thanks to all the MPs who signed it, we have sent a request to the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of the law in view of the time it was adopted. It's been half a year since we handed it over to the Constitutional Court, there's no answer. And I call upon the Constitutional Court of this place, this request practically the entire opposition sent, not one party, to the entire opposition, and I don't know what it takes the Constitutional Court for so many months to assess whether this law could be passed in accordance with the Constitution and entered into force two days before the election was called. And we know especially because of that provision that allowed more funds to be spent in the electoral promotion, especially for elections for the European Parliament. But six months have passed since the Constitutional Court, not a word. Therefore, for the sake of the public, the code of good practice in electoral matters states that for the sake of stability of electoral legislation it would not be good to change in particular certain divisions, fundamental elements of the electoral system, the composition of election committees and the definition of the borders of the electoral districts among other elements of the electoral system. So they really set out the composition of the electoral committees. Since we have always personally referred to the recommendations of the Venice Commission as good practice, which is, of course, the soft right, but it is a recommendation that should be respected. We therefore feel in principle that we must and in this particular case agree that the law could not be changed immediately before the elections themselves. But there is no reason not to discuss this law after the presidential elections, but with other aspects that are important, not only these two aspects that have been discussed, that we are discussing, for example, the deadlines for the application procedure, for the collection of signatures, because today they are unequal in certain election laws from 12 to 14 days, or that in these elections citizens can only sign for one candidate, and in other elections, for example, they can sign for more candidates, for example in local elections, or say that we are discussing whether more signatures should be attached with a candidate for the President of the Republic. Professional circles have long been believed to be going to a larger number of signatures than the current 10,000 signatures. So you practically in the local elections, I think you need 5,000 signatures to choose the mayor of Zagreb. So the city of Zagreb seems to me no more than 20% of the electoral body of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, considering this aspect, it would certainly be justified to increase the number of signatures for the President of the Republic and that is an expert position. I think you should think about that, too, 10,000 signatures are certainly too little. There are therefore a large number of issues that deserve to be discussed, and I hope that if the Ministry of Administration does not do so in any case we should do so here and the next year when the time after the presidential elections is to propose appropriate changes and additions, watching comprehensively and seeing what the elections are behind us and what we need to change everything. In this regard, I expect a new debate on this law after the presidential elections have been held.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178917	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Marko Šimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178918	I would like to thank the Vice-President HS, the honourable colleagues and fellow MPs in the next few minutes to speak on behalf of the HDZ Club on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal for a law which is in accordance with Article. 178 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the HS President submitted to the SDP's Club of Representatives. Which would be the most acceptable electoral system and to what extent an increase in the quality of the electoral system would occur by voting for amendments to the law as proposed by this amendment and supplementation. It is important to note, before entering this debate, that the electoral system in the Republic of Croatia is in force, which guarantees the citizens of the Republic of Croatia the choice of their representatives in the bodies of state authorities by the highest democratic standards of society of the most popular European countries. Any initiative to change the political and constitutional provisions of the electoral legislative system opens up a large number of issues of complex character, so this law and time should also be observed, so the moment at which we are discussing these amendments certainly does not correspond to the seriousness of a proposal which, hopefully, should be well-intentioned. The Proposer of these amendments wishes to amend the electoral legislation in two parts, proposes the introduction of multi-party election committees and the introduction of a signing obligation when the ballot is taken over. As far as the time of the bill is concerned, we believe that after the election game started, after the election process started, it is really not the time or moment to talk about the rules, therefore the electoral system and the implementation of the elections, and then we have a decision of the Constitutional Court when the SDP was in a similar situation where it was in 2014 and 2015 respectively. amending electoral legislation, and I will quote a decision, so the Constitutional Court, where it says final HS should insist on a good parliamentary practice consisting of its abstention to adopt, amend or supplement electoral legislation a year before holding regular parliamentary elections. And when you point this out as an argument, then you always get an example of changing electoral legislation before the European elections or before the European Parliament elections. In the elections, therefore, the amount of money that parties and candidates can spend in election promotion has been changed for the European Parliament, so there is a relaxed framework of funds and it is possible for all candidates in the election process to spend equal funds. People who, who are in power or parties who are in power always have more space in the information program, and then it is unrealistic if you set that censorship of funds low enough, so the fewer parties or parties that are not in position, do not have enough space in the media, almost cannot properly present them with their programme and present their candidates, so it is good that this financial framework is changed and in this I do not actually see any of the candidates or parties competing in those elections as well. As for the signing, so when we download ballots, we don't have that in any electoral law. in none in the Republic of Croatia and would therefore be precedent if we introduced it into this law, and cannot possibly support partial amendments to the law, we have seen from earlier discussions of my colleagues that, if already electoral legislation in the Republic differs from the elections and indeed our citizens and people dealing with the elections, it is difficult to monitor election irregularities or special regulations regarding, for example, the collection of signatures and the giving of signatures to one or more candidates, so that I believe that we should go according to the equalisation of electoral rules, and in no law do we prescribe one electoral rule in one way, and in another law to prescribe them differently. We have also seen from the EU Directive that we are trying to reduce the use of signatures where it is not necessary, thus introducing a signature into the electoral process by one law, and that we do not have it in other laws would indeed be absurd and I believe that this should first be discussed on, from different points of view, certainly that this assembly is a space, but I do not think that the time is today and time, so at the time of the electoral, electoral process. A very important element is the question of the real objective of the proposed legislative provisions, according to counterpart Arsen Bauk, president of the SDP Club, the amendments are proposed to reduce irregularities in polling stations, as well as the view that the proposed amendments are important to apply already in the first next elections, or in these elections for the president. We have already concluded several times in the debates, both on committees and here in the assembly that there are really few irregularities in the procedures of elections and all those irregularities that occur in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia are able to detect, resolve and sanction. We have also seen from discussions today that these irregularities did not take place in the election for the president of the Republic of Croatia, most of these irregularities have just taken place in election processes where members of the parties are members of the election committees. In my opinion, indeed, the HDZ Club does not have any problem with citizens participating in the work of election committees and election committees, we believe that those who choose and belong to the party are not always the key element for giving a vote and trust to a particular candidate. As I noted, most of the irregularities that take place in the elections took place precisely in the elections in which the election committees were such that they were party members and that the parties appointed people to these election committees. Another argument is incredible and we heard it today that 17 thousand HDZ members would be on election committees. If we change this law, it should be one of the key facts and one of the key reasons for amending this law. So at the cost of any result in the elections, we don't want to diminish the importance of citizens, we're not citizens, and that's the message I want to send here today. We citizens are not afraid, we believe that it is the citizens who need to say who will lead the state, who will lead the state authorities' institutions in the coming period. Therefore, we have no problem in the work of the electoral committees, their composition therefore being such that citizens who have applied in due time to the presidents of election committees in their midst to participate in the work of election committees. As for the problems and future of the election boards as I come from Slavonski Brod and Posavina County where we have really small environments, small local committees where we have a small number of voters, it is really hard to find people who would participate in the work of election committees and we will have to ask ourselves why. When you talk to people, part of it contributes to the economic situation that has changed, employment that is really more visible and people do not want to take that responsibility, to be required and to be in a polling position for some fee that is now guaranteed as a fee for participation in the work of election committees. And certainly, we too must become some sort of guide to reform or possibly reform of electoral legislation. Indeed, there are institutes and there are parts of electoral legislation that need to be changed and adapted from time to time. I am sure that these elections for the president will also show that, in some political and general social situations where we will, on the basis of the election results of the elections, irregularities that we will, possibly irregularities that may arise in the elections that we will change electoral legislation on this basis. But it needs to be changed at a time when Parliament can really debate in two readings, when it is relaxed, unburdened over time, unburdened by campaigning and promoting individual candidates, and I really don't think we should talk about such topics at all in this time of election promotion. As regards the time of adoption of this law, it is important to say and important to say the rules of good practice set up by the Venice Commission in 2002 as the advisory body of the Council of Europe, where it is decidedly stated that no changes should therefore be made to the composition of election committees before the elections. So both the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Venice Commission are similar and also consider this moment for amending the law as a moment in which we should not and should not do so. As a lot of jokes and jokes and unserious things have been said today about the bill's proposal because some I've heard of as such because if they were serious they would be also an attack on the electoral system and the political order of a serious state and are mentioned and handled by the numbers of 17,000, 15 thousand members of the electoral committees, and then you have parties who couldn't find a candidate in the elections who would agree to be a candidate and demeaning the function of the president and asking that the election committees be elected by party people. So how would people find 15,000 members of the party who would agree to apply to be members of the election board? The final HDZ and HDZ Representatives' Club, in accordance with the opinion of the Government and the Board of the Croatian Parliament, will not support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178919	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let's do it again. When you changed the financial rules for the election campaign then you didn't mind us doing it at 5 to 12, then you didn't mind and now you're saying you'd like to change something for a day or two before the election. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On 3 October 2019, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion on this law. From 3 October 2019 and from the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia until the vote for President of the Republic was called on for more than a month and a half. If there were any will, this law would have been discussed and adopted. But will and desire are gone and say it clearly, say, people we won't accept what you suggested for the reasons why a) you of the SDP or b) are not responding to us because we won't be able to fool around. And why am I talking about gibberish? If something is valid in the European elections, if something is valid in the elections of the Croatian Parliament, if we choose all mayors, mayors, mayors, all municipal, city councils and county assembly and the City of Zagreb Assembly, local committees, then obviously it works, then it obviously works in practice. Because if you claim that the solution we have proposed for this case is bad, then it means that all of us who are elected to the Croatian Parliament, who are now sitting here and discussing this, are chosen by law which is bad. Then you claim that the law that elected all of our mayors, mayors and mayors, representatives of the European Parliament, is wrong. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you claim, the fact that you of the ruling majority claim does not make any sense. And if the arguments you're making are not logical then the real reasons we have to look elsewhere and in this case it's not hard at all. These reasons are because you want to fool respected colleagues from HDZ, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ. You want mu-ja-ti. And don't hide behind all sorts of explanations. And one more thing. If you mind signing and if you think it would be a newspaper that would be too much because it is not in the comparative practice of other laws, we are ready, if you propose such an amendment to accept the same and amend the law only in that section relating to election committees. So if signing is too much, if that protection against counterfeiting and cheating is too much, we're willing to accept it. Give the amendment, we will only adopt that provision which is exactly the same as in all other election laws in the Republic of Croatia and we will finish this story. If you have courage and if you really do, you really want these choices to be conducted legally and honestly, do it. Do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178921	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178922	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. How do you interpret that the current president has not spoken at all about this proposal? Is that something he's saying? So, she's here to sing to the jumper indictee, talk about baking cakes, but she hasn't been able to make a statement about this proposal? And is this on the trail of this very, very warning statement by former special adviser Andrej Plenkovic that he believes and believes that the past presidential elections have been stolen?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178923	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Answer me, comrade coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178924	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, the answer is very simple. The trivial one is much easier to manifest. What does not require work, which does not require effort and does not require entry into serious political issues is easy to talk about. This would be a lot harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178925	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178926	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague. The replicas within the SDP Club regularly repeat the mantra that the former elections have been stolen. Among other things, a series of choices have been stolen. So here, Penal Code, Chapter 30 provides for criminal acts against electoral law. Infringement of freedom in voter decision, shortfall of electoral rights, abuse of electoral rights, violation of voter secrecy, destruction and counterfeiting of electoral documents, electoral fraud. Have you, in any election and in one process, reported any violations of any of these listed voting rights? Is anyone on your side, and you keep saying that the election was stolen, so you must have some information, so did you report anyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178927	Thank you. Answer me, comrade coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178928	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. I didn't say the last election was stolen. No, I don't. You know who said that? That's what the president of your party said, quite accidentally, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia hired and paid to advise him. That's what he said. That's what he said. It is a man who was paid from the budget to advise the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the HDZ. He said there were doubts that the past elections were stolen. He said that, publicly and explained why he considered it, and a respected colleague, to another question you asked me. Yes, I did. I led the electoral legal section of the SDP headquarters to several elections, and yes, we wrote reports whenever we noticed that there was a violation of the law at some polling post. Yeah. That was our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178929	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178930	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleague of the coat of arms. I know that you absolutely follow everything that's going on and you take great care of it, but I need to remind you of one fact, the composition of the State Election Commission where always three people are given out of the ranks of opposition, three people from the ranks of the ruling, and that's no longer the case. With the European elections ahead, it was not named because it was said not to matter, therefore, about the European elections obviously did not matter, but we now have composition 4-2. So 4 is from the ranks of the ruling, 2 is from the lines of the opposition. I, regardless of good will and all, cannot believe that this is an accident and I cannot believe that there are no certain, certain preparations to be absolutely sure that the elections, or to be absolutely certain that they will not miss anything in the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178931	Thank you. Answer me, comrade coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178932	When we talk about the problem you addressed, it's very easy to explain. In the DIP, there were 3 members on whose candidacy was signed and stamped, which is said to be HDZ and 3 on which it was not. One of those the HDZ did not propose came out of the DIP, the mandate expired. The logic would be that someone who is not from the HDZ is coming to a place that HDZ has not proposed. It would be logical, but since logic doesn't rule here, that sometimes it seems to me that the watch isn't to prevent someone from entering this House uninvited but to not enter into this House logic, HDZ has concluded that if someone not from HDZ is leaving, and who has to come to its place? Well, someone from HDZ. And of course that leads to doubt in the election process and it's good that you've noticed that, but it's just one sketch for the portrait that we're creating here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178933	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178934	Thank you. Dear fellow coat of arms. We could hear from colleagues from the ruling majority that it was not instructions to amend the election law in the election year. If I remember correctly that there were some fifty amendments more to the electoral law that they had sent ahead of the European elections, it could not be passed at all before the deadline for the vote to be called. So it's been hours, that means with the debate we still held out the other day we couldn't call the election before the law was passed. That would be exhausting, but I'm talking about their hypocrite. They now have a year before the election, and then it was hours before the election. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178935	Thank you. Dear fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grumo, you don't understand, so there was something completely irrelevant and relevant, there was only the rules on campaign financing, it was just about how money in the campaign will be spent, how money will be shown in the campaign, it's only about spending 2.5 times as much as it could be before, and for the president's elections, notes are also in a year since that change, twice as much. It's a little something. How come you don't understand that, Mr. Grmoy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178937	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178938	Dear fellow coat of arms. You said here that you could even give up the proposal for a provision that a voter when receiving a ballot signs his name in a copy of the voter list. But I would ask you not to give it up, it's a good proposal and not like you said, there is no practice in other countries. However, there are a number of elections in which I personally participated as an observer in the OSCE observation missions are indeed used by the right and obligation of the voters to sign before receiving the ballot. Not only does it round his name and last name from a member of the electoral committee but he must personally sign the ballot's receipt and thus prove that he personally joined the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178939	Thank you. Dear fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, when I was answering my colleagues to Grmoya, I was a little sarcastic, but here I won't, here I'll be serious. When I spoke of comparative practice, I meant comparative Croatian legislation, I meant other Croatian laws governing the electoral system. Of course, if we look beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, there is a whole series of systems that guarantee that the elections have been approached by the very person who will be marked as voting in the electoral list. We have a situation of course with signatures in some countries even have a situation where special sprays are marked by voters who come to a polling post that is very difficult to take off, which is very difficult to wash to ensure that you do not show up again at that or at another polling post and vote for 3rd, 4, 5th, 6th, or who knows which person. However, if that would be a condition for HDZ to settle at least half, then we are willing to agree to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178941	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Marko Šimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178942	Dear fellow coat of arms. I would just like to remind you that we, as HDZ here, are not proposing any amendments to the electoral legislation, we just expect that the elections that are under way are conducted according to those rules as so far. The elections were held twice under these rules when he won the election of former President Mesic, so Josipovic and once Kolinda, and it is important to stress that we are not looking for any change of electoral legislation here, but we are representing the the thesis that when this election campaign started or when elections were called, there are no changes to the electoral rules or rules of the electoral system. I will stress that the most important thing in the elections that citizens will trust, and not who sits on election committees, is who will go to the elections and who will be trusted by the citizens. And I really don't understand why we're complaining so much about election rules today. So I'll remind you only that in this election game you have several candidates who have already been used to the election of that candidate who, at the time of his time as party president, lost the parliamentary elections three times and didn't cry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178943	Thank you. Dear fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look, it's clear to you both that we're voting this next Friday when you predicted a vote that this could not apply to these elections both to me and to you it's clear. It's clear to you and me that you've been stalling with the debate on this law just so we can use that argument. Your decision is that at any point you can put any point of the agenda into debate, you didn't want to, and that's quite clear. We took advantage of our business opportunities only when the conditions were met, and that's now. So if you wanted to solve this, you could have solved it in time, but you didn't. Now that it's clear to you and I both that this cannot be applied to this election, let's adopt it and send a message that we don't want to cheat, that we don't want to steal, that we want an orderly electoral system. And so far the note has been held six times by the election of the President of the Republic under this law, this is the law of '92. This is going to be the seventh time. Then at least give it eight times to make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178945	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178946	Comrade Grbin, I ask you to try to explain this logic to Mr Simic, and you have touched this in your presentation which is as an argument that we cannot through this law, or they cannot support, for example, our proposal for verification by signing the ballot because it is simply not so defined in all other laws for other levels of election parliamentary, local, local and council elections, city councils and county councils, and on the other hand, reject this law which should just balance the practice of the multiparty assembly of election committees as it is regulated in all other laws. Can you please explain that logic to me because I don't understand it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178947	Thank you, my esteemed colleague, Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I can't, I don't understand that logic, so I can't even explain it to you. Every time you don't do what you don't do the first time, you have to do exactly that first time. It is sometimes when we talk about electoral legislation in the Law on Local Elections, so we have subsequently leveled the practice in other laws. We have once introduced something into the Law on Elections in the European Parliament, and then we have built it into the Law in local elections, in the Law for MPs for the Croatian Parliament, now we are proposing something that, if it turns out to be good, could become a practice for other election laws in the Republic. What's the problem with a citizen of the Republic of Croatia taking over a ballot, taking a pen and signing that ballot? It's not for me, but I'll do it again, if it's a problem for HDZ, we're prepared and we're willing to give up the part that's more important to me in this law, and that the system is in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178949	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178950	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the amendment and addition of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia in an emergency procedure. I have to say, I'm one of those who has and I always say that technical way of thinking, I think in pictures and a man learns while he's alive, logic should be abandoned when entering this hall, that logic of any kind stops. Equally if you think something's impossible, it's possible. Equally if you think he can explain it to another one, it's possible. I often think something I've been dreaming about, so I'm gonna wake up now, so I'm gonna wake up in the real world, feel like outside the real world there's a special world living in this assembly where things are sometimes done, why? Only because I can work. Let's see some of the facts we have at this hour. So, the same assembly of parliament, not so long ago, we had a change of law, two days before the European elections were called, and then we had all the arguments that it was possible. At that time, the Venice Conventions and everything else were not worth it. We had a choice of members of the DIP in which we have three belong to the ruling, three belong to the opposition with an interpretation that it is not seen then but now so that the relationship would be 4:2 but it is concluded in connection with the European elections, it is none of our business so we won't vote when we all rebelled but we will vote behind so that it is worth all the other choices. With all the elections, we have the same election committees except in the presidential elections, and now that it's made to be the same, it's not good now. And we have one step, but the proposer here said that he's even ready if there's such an amendment, of which he gives up, and that's that when you get a ballot, it's signed, so it's signed. Everyone will say they want stability, that absolutely everyone has good intentions and that everyone in it wants clean hands. So we are aware that the vote on December 13th, the second Friday, and this vote on December 13th, so the second Friday, can be very difficult for these elections. Why we won't send a message all of a sudden, here it is, it's not a problem, we're going to do it, we're going to give an amendment that the SDP said will agree to, and we're going to have for the presidential elections the same election committees as we have for all the other elections, and that way we say, when we go to the elections, we're ready for all the conditions, there are no conditions that we won't accept, which we're not ready for because in all the conditions we're going to do the job well but no. Why not? Only because you can. So it can be when I need something, then it'll be like this, if that message were, say, for our citizens of good, then I don't care at all because I don't really care about citizens, I'm only interested in the part that votes for me and they don't care. Well, it doesn't matter to everyone. If we really want stability, I don't see a single valid argument why wouldn't the election committee be the same as everyone else? I don't have any problem, and I'm sure most people don't have any problem when it comes to the election to sign that they've taken over the ballot, but obviously we have, the special adviser to Prime Minister Plenkovic and the president of HDZ, yesterday the man comes out and says he has reasonable suspicion that he's certain that the former presidential elections have been stolen but there's no evidence and where we are? We kind of decided to forget that. This assembly, when you see who sits in the assembly, then you actually see that HDZ, there are no coalition partners, although the good coalition partners will leave their senses at home, thinking the same way, and when there is a vote will come and vote on it the way the one who requires them, but there are none from HDZ, here are two colleagues, because in fact they don't care what we talk about because they're absolutely already thinking two steps ahead, they were thinking when they appointed members of the DIP, just in case we and the DIP have a relationship of 4:2, evil shouldn't, we won't change anything, evil shouldn't be. We've already made the election once according to a particular model, and we'll do it another time. Presidential elections are specific choices, they're specific to what we really do to make sure that I'm very concerned about what I'm going to say about DIP and who said that we can't when the campaign's going on, but let's say that what I might possibly be able to do, we have 11 candidates and, by all accounts, we're going to have a second round. But there's obviously some kind of panic and that first round, obviously, and there's some kind of announcement of black swans, white ones, I don't know which ones, like these, so we have to be very careful, or we have to get all the conditions to do these choices the usual way we did 5 years ago. The context of why it is right now, so it's absolutely clear, in October if I'm not mistaken and in early October the government gave an indication that it was going to do something, there was no reason, we also extended HS for two weeks compared to that session, so we could discuss it. It is known who puts on the agenda a certain point, and it is known which points come in the afternoon to see as little as possible, yesterday was also an interesting point in the afternoon, so not only the opposition. In one real world, in one real world, where when we talk about good intentions and clean hands it's not just a phrase we use, we would do this debate relatively quickly, HDZ would say okay, you want it, so there's no problem, so we go to elections, so there's no it, we do it all right, but it's not always going to be a question why you won't, because there's justifiable fear, because you want to in the usual way that you've done it before. I'd say that's actually the answer because the stability of the way you interpret and interpret is absolutely different. Every country, every country would do anything to have as much horizontal equality of the law, when you see the justification of all the laws then says horizontal equality to be in harmony with each other. So, when the election committees in the presidential election are as complex as in any other election, we have horizontal equality. The paper is to sign the ballots, so let's introduce for this election the newspaper, so let's see, we'll do everything we can to make sure there's no stains in these elections, but you certainly have one serious spot in the 5th year election, so not that we're now whispering and speaking and doubting and comparing individual polling stations and the first and second round, it's all in the end, you can see, you know, the figure is what it is, but the man that Prime Minister Plenkovic and the president of HDZ chose to be his special advisor to say, obviously something that caused it, obviously by warning, my people care about what these presidential elections are going to be, don't let it repeat what was before the 5th. Of course, we at the GLAS Club of course support this proposal for the simple reason that this proposal balances the horizontal legislation of the Republic of Croatia, introduces a single newspaper, so if we need this newspaper, if this paper allows us to be sure, that our processes are democratic, I don't see a reason for not. All of us sitting here whether we're on the phone or watching cell phones or waiting for our discussion, we've all been through elections and we all have different experiences with these choices. I have one, I've passed a very unusual election where, where we complained within a time frame that we could complain about because there were four polling stations in one school, in three places there was one result, in the fourth place that there was a slightly smaller result we wouldn't even complain about, but it was zero and see wonders they forgot exactly me to sign those votes, just because it was disproportionate. So, if you have any kind of, if there is a proposal, if this proposal is good, I don't see any reason not to accept it at all, but the reason can be first, I can't, so it's either a reason or I know it shouldn't be accepted because it'll bring me some additional trouble for my candidate or candidate, so that's no reason, no reason whether she's the first one talking about haughtiness, and if the other one, then we have any problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178951	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178952	Mr. Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues, the debate on this bill is a disgrace to this House, and it is a shame that we are here 2, 4, 6, 7, 8 and President Grbin 10, so we are not even 10% of the total number of parliamentary representatives, which is clearly saying that this is not the topic we need to talk about or the elections in Croatia that are not stolen, in which no theft is all beautiful, wonderful. Obviously, if it were with the number of people who today and in the debate and who are there, then it would seem so, but unfortunately, the situation is very different in Croatia, and it is obvious that in elections in one way or another, and that is the truth that has long been known and our citizens know it, everyone knows it but nothing has been done to change it and especially see what the parliamentary majority has been stalling with the debate from the first day of the official, to the first day of the official campaign. But in fear, the big eyes are so that it is obvious that their candidate in these elections could pass as a boss in thorns and that is the reality and that colleagues in HDZ know well, and perhaps that is why they do not want this law to be passed or that this law enters into force. And when the candidate is who she is and when the candidates are who they really are, she's trying to save herself, and how else is she by swindling and refusing to introduce additional security in the vote and that the electoral system, that the composition of the electoral committees is the same as in the other elections. It's a democratic standard and the best way to stop any attempted fraud and theft. It is unfortunate that we today have to discuss this when we, we all could and should agree that additional mechanisms of protection of manipulation in polling stations are more than welcome. If nothing else is due to citizens getting trust in the state, state institutions and in this Parliament, which we know has a very low rating of citizens. This should be the position of all parties but unfortunately we are far from it and in the presidential elections is most easily manipulated and therefore additional mechanisms are needed. The signing of ballots and election committees as well as other elections should be a democratic standard in the election of the president of the state. All of us who have participated once, at least once in the elections know that election committees are the best at preventing manipulation but all of them control everything, so there are things that can't be done under the table or at a time when the polling post is closed and that should be the standard in both presidential elections, but obviously it doesn't want to be introduced for these elections. All this will raise doubts about the regularity of the election. As we have mentioned many times today, the prime minister's advisor made it very clear, and if the election results are looked at five years ago, anything is possible and its findings may be true, especially if it comes from a man who was very close to the prime minister. What I said in my replica is not stolen in large cities but in small areas where it is easiest to manipulate because it is a composition of the election committees for the presidential elections essentially related to one party and that is reality and it is bad but that is so. And no one will be able to say that we tried to solve it and move it. But here's an example of what it looks like to be possible in small areas to manipulate things are the 2013 elections, local elections where the character was celebrated by a large number of invalid ballots, I'm sorry there is no Mr. Boric but these are official data that showed that the person was the largest number of invalid ballots in the entire country. For example, Međimurje County had 2.72% while in other counties it was between 3 and 6% and the largest number of invalids was in Zadar 8.17%, in Vukovar-Srijemia 8.43% and Lika Senjska County 9.02 lists were found invalid. If there were 9% of invalid ballots in the entire county, it was convenient to see how it was in some cities in Lica, so it was shown that the smallest number of invalids was in Peru, Gospić, Senj and Novalja somewhere between 5 and 6% but at the top of the scale were Plitvice Lakes with 13%, Tops with 17%, and also a little unusually that the largest number of invalid ballots was recorded in Udbina and Donja Lapac, Udbina 25%, Lower Lapac 27%. And how come such an enormous number of invalid ballots in the county election? So the local elections can also be repainted to these presidential elections. Because how it's possible that almost 30% of the voters who went to the polls can't properly round the ballot. Or someone in the Electoral Committee has simply circled another name and thus manipulated the results and declared the valid ballot invalid. The elections five years ago were mentioned there, also the elections where there were the largest number of invalid ballots in the second round, over 60 thousand which again raises the question whether these invalid ballots were really invalid ballots as a citizens protest because no candidate liked it or how the valid vote for one candidate could then be declared, declared invalid. That is why it was necessary in these amendments, in these laws that we have tried today in this law which we have tried here in the Parliament or we will try to adopt just to show that we are the state of order, that in Croatia there is no simmering and that in Croatia as citizens decide that there is no hairstyle of results. And there's no reason for the election committee to not be as much as in any other election. Here is an example from local elections where election committees are party and then on party committees, it was obviously possible to hair certain things, and how they will be possible on those election committees that are "not party" and de facto are party. And it will be very interesting to see in these presidential elections how many invalid ballots will be in which certain parts of Croatia I am sure there will be no in large cities, but in some small places in Dalmatia and in Lika and Slavonia there will be a large number of invalid ballots for one of the candidates, and we will see what it will look like. Here's a warning from this payphone to keep an eye on how things are controlled and to make as many observers as possible a party that will make it impossible for things to change because party election committees are the best way to control the regularity of the election. As I said when you have more parties, more people from more parties on the election board then everyone controls everything and that's the best way to avoid manipulations from polling stations. It is clear that the current situation because in HDZ, only colleague Strick is there and fellow vice president, but he is more ours than the vice president, what I want to say is that the HDZ is obviously the most suited because it will allow certain things to be haired and there to be mugging and stealing voices. This bill is a matter of an additional institute to protect against attempts to steal votes in the elections, and that should be made clear. Unfortunately, this is necessary because the HDZ obviously cannot be trusted and the delay of the debate on this law speaks most of all about how much the rulings want order in the polling stations because it is obvious that the mess suits them. That's why I call on citizens and citizens to go to elections, prevent any attempted theft or manipulation. I especially urge citizens living in Croatia to pay taxes in Croatia to go to elections and not allow Croatia's president to choose diaspora or muttering in polling stations. Don't let HDZ steal our election, go to the election, give your vote to that candidate you think you should give, go to the election and don't let them fool us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178953	Comrade Miranda, a colleague named Peja Grbin just said about the DIP's position, so I would ask you not to use a Assembly speaker for any election messages in the future. We're moving on to an individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178954	Thank you very much. Well, I don't see that these two changes mean the voter's signature when he votes and, of course, the election boards to be members as well as in other elections. Therefore, I believe that this should be brought unanimously without a great debate, but obviously this is not acceptable to HDZ and those who support the current president, I will say for which reasons because they stick to those facts, I can tell my experience, is it not important in Croatia how many voters have come out, how many votes it has voted, it is important here who is counting that gain. And by that logic they have predetermined that it does not matter who will be on the election boards as a non-party committee, and already they are filled before the call itself and it is simply so settled. This is the case that I can tell you from my experience when I was running for mayor that in the second round in the smaller municipalities in the Dalmatian Zagora in the second round for the mayor more voters came out regardless of what there was no second round for the mayor of municipalities and it was 90% he got, of course you know which candidate, it was a patient reading, I didn't have the opportunity to cover it all I admit and it was so and it worked so. So it came out more in the second round when he was less interested in the voters was he not the second round was he in the first round won by the HDZ candidate, but for the mayor it was twice as much. And of course if it were to leave it like that, don't touch it, that way it should work, and I would just agree here that, why would fellow Striker vote for this, they'll count it, they count it. Well, once Milosevic seemed to me to get 102% like that, which is why you went over that system, so you're not stupid enough to go through it. How you're going to win the election than that. Of course all the fellow was just a moment ago the Vice President of the Parliament said not to be used for pre-election purposes, all used for pre-election purposes. Here today, the Committee on Veterans has been postponed the thematic session called by the HDZ majority to discuss Milorad Pupovac, who insults Croatia abroad and here. And now they're postponing it by the 1st month when the presidential elections pass, and then they'll have Milorad Pupovac for the parliamentary election of the Chetnik, insulting it, but it'll raise a neat hand together, but before the election, it means they'll be delayed until the 15th. You're a member and a colleague of Brkic's. That's how it was with the amendment, I'm the vice president of the board, I'm the amendment to being a Vukovar great-serb aggression, and nobody called me on the phone to vote on it, to withdraw the amendment of the Veterans Committee, and I'm the vice president of the board. So tomorrow I will talk about it a little bit wider and more if I simply know that President of the Parliament took a picture with the members of the associations who asked to discuss Mr. Milorad Pupovac's statements, but apparently now he's engaged fiercely in the campaign of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic at the signal of the Chetniks, the coalition partner of the party in which Mr. Brkic and of course... And of course, now that campaign is very important, and you can't argue tomorrow about Pupovac, God forbid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We withdraw it by 15.1. on the Day of Recognition of the Republic of Croatia then. And I suggest you postpone this until the parliamentary elections. Until the election, he will be the enemy of your Pupovec, who will raise his hands neatly, who will put millions into their newspapers, millions, and then strike again before the elections. Before the election, again it is a Chetnik, that is this, that is what, we patriots, the only me, what a Pupovac, and together archite and together run politics now and that is including this Parliament in the pre-election campaign, colleague Brkic, that is including the Parliament in the campaign. The HDZ is asking to discuss Milorad Pupovac and that's it. I find it simple, everything is used in the campaign by telling my colleague Mrsic, I think you said it was not a good influence on elections or advertising elections, so everything is used in the pre-election campaign, and most of all is used by your coalition partner Milorad Pupovac, Mr. Milliana Brkic. You will all include Milorad Pupovac and his satellites from Mile Topzija, who is the secretary here, everything is in the campaign in the Parliament, who is the secretary of the ministry, who manages the Krka National Park, the Plitvice National Park where the first one, he was in charge of, where the first director was killed, and Mile Topzija was shot at precisely.../incomprehensible/... only on the other hand, was a good Topjia, he says. And that's all acceptable. Therefore, I will once again say that I accept this law, the amendment, because I think it is better for them to be representatives of the committees of the electoral political, political options and others, to be signed. And this is the rest of the influence on politics, so of course it affects itself, so whichever one you do in Parliament all the time is, where, here, I am now interested in why it is not Djakic here and to explain or tomorrow to explain why it was withdrawn, I, as vice president of the board, am getting an email today that the debate on Milorad Pupovac, which he initiated, is not me. Why? Therefore, and withdrawn until 15.1. session postponed. Well, why? Because they're tribune now, now they're tribune. The Tribba vote. Now, my Senjanin, Lician, you know that well and a thorough number of votes and you're famous here. A little while ago, a colleague in front of me told me how many of you there were invalid ballots. Therefore, I would like to conclude that elections are a holiday of democracy and all that is, what we're trying to do as a Parliament we've done. The MOST Club has been discussing all day and two, i.e. 48, I don't know what, 40 hours without ever changing the law. Uh, to change funding and that it's not right to change with just calling the election. And that's because money's been increasing, and now it's not appropriate for all of us to control together that everyone has their own representative, i.e. Your candidate, whether he's independent or they're, but it's time to change things. Now or never. When are we gonna change? When you move out more of these 2/3 of Croatia, in fact, 2/3 of you moved out, you're 5% of GDP because of the Election Law, and I'll always wonder when I got here, the DIP came up with 10,000 signatures, 10 100 say. What about these other signatures? Who guarantees to the citizens that their signatures were recorded or I don't know what they got into those blue boxes when they brought in any boxes? Who guarantees that my.../incomprehensible/... I don't know how Ante Djapic is, I didn't see that he bought the signatures. And when it was a referendum initiative to change the electoral law, then it was numbered, numbered, 40,000 invalids were found by Lovro Kuščević, a secretary. And you've never shown them to this Parliament, and you're still laughing in our faces. You're right. You're not crazy. You'll count. You've won in advance. That's why I'd be surprised at you if you supported something that's normal because whoever's counting, so I remember that once Milosevic got from the voter's exit. Therefore, I will still remain behind this thesis. In this case, the elections are such that it doesn't matter how many voters came out, it doesn't matter who he voted for, the voter wins in Croatia. And you won't let go of that bat. I know it's Split-Dalmatia County, it's so in Dalmatia Zagora, it's so much, local elections are where there are different political options, it's somewhat controlled, and otherwise everything else is brothers, as much as you fit in, what you moved out, what you moved out, you'll circle around again, you'll even round up those people who moved out because of your policy. 5% of GDP, 18 billion kunas sent to Croatia, 18 billion kunas. There's going to be a moment of organizational when.../incomprehensible/... insert. Why? That's why you won't allow it. I'd be surprised if you would allow it because you can sit quietly in that chair right now. You still have your coalition partner Milorad Pupovac, I see he's turned himself in thoroughly, you're not going to have any session now, they, the associations that have proposed this now are silent, the vow of silence, and that's it, and that's what needs to be discussed extensively, and I think the huge impact of the Parliament's committee on the presidential this now campaign. I'll explain it tomorrow and I'll talk about it. I'll talk about it in public, let him know, let the public know the truth. As the amendment has been withdrawn that, that is, the victims of great Serb aggression. Why was the amendment withdrawn? Who asked me, no one, and I'm a board member. They pulled him out, ordered Plenkovic down at the club, the defenders, pull the amendment, they... Like mice, kid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruding Brkić: I thank Mr. Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178955	And I beg you, there's no need to call any fellow MPs at the Assembly. You can make your point nicely, but without such activities. Here you are, fellow Striker, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178956	Thank you, Vice President. So the Honorable Representative Bulj has injured an article. 238, I've never been a member of the War Veterans Committee but never, not even in my previous session, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178957	Thank you, fellow Striker. Although he's not injured, I'm glad you explained to your colleague Bull and gave him the information. We're moving on to replicas, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178958	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, you have touched an important topic, demanding that SDP colleagues sign the ballot. We have a situation now of these signings for candidates, the DIP is so I would say thoroughly reviewing that we have 11 candidates without any kind of I would say, more detailed checks, I can't believe that 500 000 signatures have been collected and that one part of the signature doesn't match and we know that we need to bring 10,000 single signatures and as Mr Petrov said, it seems that the Croats can't sign just when they're signing the referendum, then they don't know how to sign, obviously and then the Ministry of Administration finds 40,000 invalid signatures, and here we have candidates that no one's ever heard of, they've brought 15, 11,000 signatures, 12, and everything't wrong, there's no double, there's no mistakes, it's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178959	Thank you. Answer, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178960	This is where the DIP needs to ask the Department of Administration. Who guarantees that some member of my family didn't end up in that blue box, 280, 220 or I don't know how much, mostly 100 less than the last time. Who guarantees me? Did they review all the signatures? No, they're not. So for the President of the State's candidacy... What do you want to do, copy, do whatever you want, fake, and none of them have been found to be double anywhere, none of them, and so the DIP claims to be a referendum initiative, you've been looking for letters, no matter who agreed or did not agree with the election law on amendments or not but 400,000 people, you've found 10% invalid signatures and none here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who guarantees me as much as I don't know her, Ante Djapic, I haven't seen his boxes anywhere and everyone else, where did they collect it? Dee? Who guarantees that my signatures, my families, had me there from some of yours, I don't know, from these referendum initiatives, who guarantees that you didn't take this out of the referendum initiatives and put it in those boxes? It's easy for you to do that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178961	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We have the next line, dear fellow Uncle, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178962	Dear Representative Bulj, so I can't believe that you will support this SDP proposal, a lex alibi, means a law that wants to justify the loss of the upcoming elections. You, or your club, filed a few months ago in this House 888 amendments. You debated for two days and one night so that all amendments would be unanimously rejected. Unanimity. This means that you yourself have been against your amendments but it took you two days and a night to understand that and now you support this proposal that needs to be justified in advance for the SDP candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178963	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178964	Well, we've given the amendments, and it's still needed, there's been a hundred amendments missing that you can't... Another 4 million kuna for the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why. We're just trying to stop you because otherwise you couldn't use that money, you know? So how can you be unreasonable? There was a lot of money for you. Two-and-a-half times more funding than was provided for in the previous law. Did you get it? We had an entirely different interest, but what's reasonable is that there are more different political options on the election boards, as much as possible, and that these people are just controlling each other. Not that there's already been a list of board members. It's already been done in advance. And I repeat it to you and you know it very well, you will not, of course, vote for this, not interested in me who suggested, that it gets the elections not even the voter that came out, but the one who counts, that is, in Croatia and you stop it wanting to keep, those who count, get elections and not voters, and you don't want to change it, and that's the dictatorship of the Electoral Law that you don't want to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178965	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178966	Thank you. Mr. Bulj, so you have made it clear that you support the bill we have given and warned of any possible or likely irregularities that have occurred, with this work and your presentation, I agree. You used this debate to boost the tension a little bit and on an international basis, i.e. by implying that Mr. Pupovac, or that party, would support the HDZ candidate, I hope that the party's voters will go to the polls and vote but will not vote for the HDZ candidate, the work was not agreed but I wanted to say one more thing. You said the election was a holiday of democracy. And with this law, they've been mentioned for now. And they're not at the holiday level, and we'll only be talking about democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178967	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178968	I am not at the international level, I was talking about M. Pupovac and his party who, all the time, means open work, today has openly started working for K. Grabar Kitarović but he is a coalition partner, in this case, a colleague of Bauk HDZ and this most firm coalition partner, I did not mean it in this way and called for people of Serbian nationality and anyone to vote for K. Grab Kitarović, because in this case Pupovac probably has some very important influence there, his narrow circle, the financing of his council, and that is important to him, it is important for him at this point to be protected from the HDZ against the elections, to have his favorite K. Grabar Kitarović, M. Popovca's favorites brought to Vucica and to whom he has extended the red wallpaper and lined up the Croatian occasional troops of the Croatian army, it is important to them, not to bring in the short lists of their shortlists and the Czechs that are not the Czechs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178969	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Bull. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178970	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so there are laws that the HS adopts, which should help all of us to enjoy greater citizens' confidence that politics is credible and that this drop in citizens' confidence in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia will stop. Never in the history of the Croatian state has there been less trust in HS, the Croatian government, the position of president or president of the Republic of Croatia, and it is certainly one of the worst heritage that the current president carries with him at the end of his five-year term. So, do you ask citizens how much they believe in the Croatian government, this HS, which works with the majority held by Bandic's iron hug and his chips, and in fact they mock the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who did not support such a majority, we come to the conclusion that such attitude in which the current president does not speak at all for this law, shows to what extent she is also burdened with this iron hug by Bandic, his chips and HDZ in this HS, is so burdened that she even goes to a birthday celebration and sings to a jumper indictee and prepares to bake cakes at the moment he ends in prison, which sends a very clear message to the judicial authorities how to behave in this case, which certainly does not contribute to raising the elected functions of president. Why am I stressing all this? Because the decline of trust in institutions and this kind of behaviour of the current president who sends a message to citizens that its function is completely irrelevant, encourages citizens to stay at home, encourages citizens to vote, and in conditions of electoral abstinence, benefit those who come to their position by corruption, these are research presented both in the Republic of Croatia and Europe, so in corruption societies, citizens do not go to elections and thus give corrupt people a chance to be re-elected because their interest round comes to elections, and here we come to the fact why HDZ, why no sentence has been announced by the current president. So, this proposal cannot bother anyone who wants to increase citizens' turnout, who wants transparency, who wants the situation to be equal after the polls are closed before the polls are closed, so no one who does not want to mock the will of the electoral body, no one who does not want the citizens to really show up in the elections and that this will is respected is not against this law. So this is not SDP's law, this is the law that tells all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to go to elections, your vote is valuable, your vote will allow for changes in the Republic of Croatia and no one will make that vote invalid. In order for the vote to be valuable and not annulled, citizens first have to go to the elections, after they go to the elections and round up their candidate, the ballot must not become invalid. If there are no multi-party observers who control each other in certain environments where members of the electoral committee will actually belong to one party, and in this case it is known which, there is an objective danger of rounding up citizens' lists that have not even gone to elections or that after citizens have gone to elections, their ballots have made themselves invalid and our goal has been to prevent it. He who opposes it is transparency, is against democracy, is against the return of trust in the institutions, in this case to the institution of the President of the Republic. What is saddest, the current president, despite all her singing performances, did not find time to say clearly and loudly that she supports this law and wants to ensure the true will of the electoral body in the Republic, did not do so because she is afraid, 100 000 fewer signatures tell her clearly what kind of situation she is in and to what extent she enjoys the confidence of the citizens of the Republic. It is clear, therefore, that the ruling party in the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of a statement by special adviser to Prime Minister Plenkovic, that the past elections were irregular, that there were thefts in them, has such intentions also in this election cycle because it does not support this proposal that should have prevented all of this. In this way, I believe that this behavior of HDZ, Bandic's chips, will encourage citizens to come out in as large a number as possible, so I invite them to go to the polls, to choose their candidates, whoever these candidates are, because only going to the elections will prevent someone from voting in their place, and I call on all observers to be awake and not to let votes become invalid after the vote is closed. I believe that in this way we will be able to ensure change in the Republic of Croatia and that we will get a president who, by his conduct, will restore the dignity of the role of the president of the Republic who, I shall say, is ugly to the limits that probably none of us could have imagined would be true for someone who acts as President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178971	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. We have replicas, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178972	Col. Jovanovic, a colleague, Strick, said that this is an alibi law, but it is obvious that the alibi law for, for HDZ because it is obviously a panic, the question of who will enter, in the second round, who won't, and that the obvious issue among them is the defacto of their alibi because they don't want to change these things in the law today, it's very clear that things can be changed after the elections are closed, that it is possible to manipulate them, it has proved this in the past elections, and what is very important to say, you yourself have said that if you don't like the candidate or candidate that you then round it again and declare it invalid, it happened in the previous elections 60 000 there were invalid elections in the second round, much more than in the run.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178973	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178974	Thank you very much. So, fellow Mrsic, that if the citizens who follow us, if they follow us, it is clear that this is not an alibi law, a very simple example, so on the election board will sit, according to our proposal, members of the electoral committee of which one will be for Mr. Škora, the other for Mrs. Grabar Kitarovic, and the third for Zoran Milanovic, there is therefore no way that any ballot can be made invalid in any way, and now you will have a situation that only members of the election committee who support Mrs. Grabar Kitarovic, it is clear what happens in that case when the polling post is closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178975	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ante Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178976	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Jovanovic, therefore the campaign has begun, we have enough candidates or 11 if I am not mistaken and it is expected and certain confrontations of these candidates unless someone decides to come to the meeting which will show the message as well, in fact, that they want to make elections for themselves or themselves and it would be very interesting that when these conflicts are one of the questions to be then what they think about this proposal of the electoral law, is it the right way to somehow those who are presidential candidates, I am absolutely sure that every presidential candidate is interested in having such a law, he is interested in having such a law, he is interested in being unless he has a figure in his pocket, but if he has a figure in his pocket then there will be no confrontation, which will be the first time that there will be no confrontation in the first round.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178977	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178978	Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you are absolutely right, but we already have an answer to your question, so the current president refused to comment on our proposal, other presidential candidates said they had nothing against it, and she had already announced that she would not participate in the events, so it did not prevent her from singing at the birthday celebration of the jumper, but she had no power to say clearly and loudly that she supported this law, which is clearly what her intentions are, and the intentions are dishonest intentions because she is afraid that she will not have enough votes of citizens who will vote for some other candidates, and not for her.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178979	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178980	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, that according to all this, our bill will not receive support from the ruling coalition, because the ultimate urgency of this law is actually to introduce greater control in the electoral process through the appointment of multilateral election committees such as this in all other elections, but on the other hand, and that the signature is to personally verify the takeover of the ballot before the vote of each individual voter who makes use of his electoral or voting right. It is also a shame that the ruling majority does not want to remove any possible shadow throw on regularity, to regularity, and it would not be the first time to do so, so I will remind you, but my colleagues have just said, the adviser, former adviser to the president, the Prime Minister yesterday said there is no evidence of it, but that he is convinced that the presidential, past presidential elections have been stolen, so this is something that is serious and something that is not to be joked about, especially when it comes from the mouth of a person who knows how the system works, it is not some citizen who rightly can express a certain, certain suspicion. One infamous dictator had a statement, it is known "no matter who votes, it matters who counts the votes", it is a terrible statement, it undermines the foundations of democracy in which the government stems from the people, in which the elections of the Festival of Democracy, in which the state-run trust comes from electoral or voting rights. However, this dictator is not far from what was happening and in the Republic of Croatia, we had the dead who voted and the phantoms who voted, whether, whether the outcome of each election was the voter's will or someone took the right to manipulate the voter's will, to fake elections and to reroute the people in the other direction, to this in the HS post-festum of the failed voter votes I will not speak at all, I will only talk about the election procedure. Is that what it was? Is in Vrgorec, 404 persons at one address. Did the dead vote? They did. Have those who didn't go to the election voted? They are sometimes. Who spent it, how could the dead glare, how could those who didn't approach the polls vote, how, who spent it, who did it? Election committees, election committees, means that on election boards even if they were party-based there are people who know and are trained to steal, there are people who know it, there are people who did it, there are people who may also be through these non-party election committees as people who can be dragged into, dragged into election committees and do the job. Now let's see which party could have done it. If, if this has been done in party election committees, let's remember Mr Ivan Drmic, you know who Ivan Drmic is, right, former HDZ representative after the HDZ, the gentleman publicly boasted that he had stolen twice the HDZ elections for Ivo Sanader, one time in 2002, the second time in 2004. From one of the media how he describes the procedure through election committees. Pasalic had observers, Sanader had election committees, Ivan Drmic knew that the election board was the key, not Pasalic's observers because they only observe elections and do not have the same rights as members of the election board. And now says Drmic describes the methodology of stealing in 2002, some of our people have been introduced as envoys to the Assembly through the HDZ community for young women... I guess with Glavas then together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Votes were numbered in five places, each candidate for party president was entitled to two observers, not members of the election board. Pasalic's observers could not at the same time control what is happening in 5 different places, members of the election committees designated by Sanader read one thing, another wrote. If Drmic explains, one member of the commission read aloud that Pasalic received 26, Sanader 14 votes, another member of the commission would have written the opposite by adding that to Sanader Pasalic's number of votes. This is the most explicit example of a change in voice recording but there is another, when you have no people from other parties to control on the election board, the observer can't go 5 minutes to the bathroom, why? So the dead wouldn't vote, so that the powerless one who won't and cannot join the polling post wouldn't vote, and when the votes count, then chemically, you know, just make one little move and make your opponent's ballot invalid. Round up another candidate or draw a line over another one, that it's not clear who was voted for. It's not a fantasy, it's a reality, it happens. This happened and we prevent it from happening in the future. Why is it important to open this topic right now? Well, HDZ isn't very great and wonderful. The presidential candidate who was favorite in the previous elections won only 30,000 votes of difference, with only 30,000 votes of difference. Now, according to the polls, her advantage is melting. I don't want to get into how many signatures she's got, but that's a lot, a lot less than the number of signatures she brought in five years ago. So now it's literally, literally every vote and some on the election boards that I don't think they're going to miss the chance to do everything that HDZ candidate gets in this particular case. And why is it important that the president's role and that HDZ's candidate win those elections? Well, look, we often talk here and in public so it's irrelevant that President, he doesn't have any authority, he's a ficus, but you forget that he has one very important authority that he can use for a year, which is to trust the mandate or person to put the government together in parliamentary elections. Don't forget the color of Mr. Petrov's face when he came out of the Office of the President, the green face was, yes, yes, Nikola, the green one came out, I don't know if he was sick but what was going on in those four walls, we don't know, and we'll never know, only the two of them know. I don't know, tell the public because don't forget that the same President went to an elected representative who was a suspect and was throwing suspicions at him that he had manipulated the electoral votes in one part of Croatia, and he was having a conversation with the President, what was going on there, so the President is not irrelevant and he will not be irrelevant for a year when we will be followed by even more uncertain choices than those we will be witnessing for an unfulfilled year. Gentlemen of the HDZ, it would be wise for you and for you to support this bill in order to remove any possibility and any doubt in order for these elections to be manipulated and played by the people's will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178981	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178982	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, this last thing you said is also the biggest problem, the citizens will surely hear this debate today, which hear a loud silence from the government's representatives who have not heard from each other will understand that we are right and that we want to ensure transparency and allow democracy of all election processes in Croatia and so on for the president and the president of the Republic of Croatia, but that HDZ and Mrs. Grabar Kitarovic does not want this because they fear the election results. They are so afraid that they have adjusted their date by not wanting to allow many Croatian citizens who moved to Croatia during the second round. So that's clear, because we have to tell the citizens once again, don't stay at home, that's the only way your voice can't be forged and that it doesn't vote for someone you didn't want to vote for.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178983	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Angelko Strick, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178984	Thank you. He's been injured. In 238, the esteemed representative insulted members of the electoral committees, and this from the SDP's ranks stressed that the inter-party election committees were stealing it, so at each polling post there is a minimum of one member of the SDP, and a question arises for whom the member worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178985	I thank my esteemed colleague, Uncle. My fellow Uncle, you have abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, you know very well that you have three replicas. Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, no. Thank you. Reply to the replica of my colleague Jovanovic, dear colleague of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178986	Let him win whoever he wants, but let the people's will be respected, not manipulated and faked, so let him who deserves the majority of the citizens' trust win. That's what we want. And the election boards, I didn't accuse them of stealing, I'm just saying that on election committees some pretty good to do the job knew and then I showed an example of how it works skillfully and who does it skillfully because I don't know, I haven't heard any more examples of where some SDP member boasted that he manipulated some elections inside or outside the party. Here I was quoting that some of the very skillful are being used by dissipating the will of the party of the people in the elections, we know how this ended in the end with Sanader, at the expense of the members at the end and HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178987	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178988	Comrade Glasovac, you have made it very clear that elections can be manipulated and in previous elections, the difference between two candidates, the presidential elections, the difference between the two candidates was very small and therefore this law was needed to simply make that difference in possible and these elections, the difference that is real and not fictitious. I note that in the first round of the previous presidential elections, in 2015 there were 1.56 invalid ballots, somewhere around 29,000 and that in the second round there were almost three times more, over 60 000 invalid ballots, or 2,56. I note that in the second round, the difference between the two candidates was only 1800 votes in Croatia, all in favour of the obvious need of great attention to make things clear, transparent and that there is no possibility of swindling because HDZ obviously does not want to lose this election.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178989	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for promoting HDZ. Here's your answer, dear colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, fellow Mrsic, there are elections that are more certain and there are elections that are more uncertain. We are awaited by uncertain presidential elections regardless of what we think about polls, polls actually show a certain trend and a trend is, one clear from the trend, that the difference between candidates is actually within the statistical error. So in these elections, everything is possible, both in the first and second rounds, and that is why it is extremely important, not only for citizens to go to the elections but also for those who go to the elections, that their will be respected and not manipulated by someone on the electoral committee because of the inability for representatives of other political parties to sit as control mechanisms on these election boards, everyone, not just an observer, to have two control mechanisms and election committees and observers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178991	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please welcome your colleague, Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178992	Thank you. Dear fellow Glasovac, this is how we demystify Mr Petrov's departure to President K. Grabar Kitarovic where he only told her that he would not draw up a government with the SDP because Milanović, past the leadership of the Most, went to our representatives. Here's a bomb for the Croatian public. When Mr. Petrov told her that, President Colinda was very, very unhappy. She would prefer Milanovic as prime minister, she would not be in such problems as are now with Plenkovic, or HDZ's prime minister. She was very unhappy and sad because we're not going to put the government together with the SDP. Believe me, she was very sad and told Mr. Petrov that she was going to put together a technical government, that she had until 17 to bring signatures or new elections. She was very sad about what he told her.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178993	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Here's your answer, dear colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178994	It only speaks in favor of my thesis that the President has a very important role in the formation of every government and secondly, I am glad that you discovered not only to me but also to the public this historical truth because indeed not only I but also a good part of my acquaintances, when we saw Mr. Petrov when he came out of that office, we were at least concerned about his health if not for life. He really looked pretty freaked out, bad, shocked and depressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178995	Thank you. We'll continue the debate, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178996	Thank you, my dear Vice President. It's an important topic, there could be a lot to talk about, I think most of the Croatian people are looking for amendments to electoral legislation. The electoral law is unfair, every vote by a Croatian citizen is not worth the same, we know that the electoral units are not the same in the election of voters, thus the vote of voters in Dalmatia is worth much less than elsewhere in Croatia, and we also have a situation where political leadership and political party oligarchies have too much influence on political developments in Croatia, and besides, as MOST, we have asked for more preferential votes than this one we now have. Also, we are all aware that our voters and this diaspora they have evicted as you like to warn but it seems that no one has heard of it, this diaspora is becoming more and more difficult to consume its electoral right and in this sense we are also in favour of introducing an electronic vote and a letter vote and I think that by refusing to introduce an electronic and correspondence vote, HDZ actually shows how much they care about the Croats in the diaspora. Also, when we talk about these elections for the president, we are aware of election manipulations. We are aware that I do not know how much Macanu can be trusted at all but we are all aware that malfeasance and electoral fraud are taking place and that the fact that someone signs when taking the ballot certainly reduced the possibility of electoral fraud and I don't see this, colleague Strick says as support, is not, this is a rational proposal. You suggest this, we'll back it up right away. Propose anything, here you propose three preferential votes, the President of the Republic stands for it. Propose an electronic vote, you have my hand. I will vote in favour of the HDZ proposal in which you propose an electronic vote but you will not, you must not, because you are aware that your voting machine would then be compromised. And you are in great danger, showing the number of signatures collected by K. Grabar Kitarovic. Miljan Brkic stands behind the president and says he is in the campaign but I don't see the heat, there's no heat, he's in a full-on campaign, then you shouldn't be afraid for K. Grabar Kitarović but I don't see him burning up and that's the problem, it's a problem for you... Yeah, it's a key problem as far as HDZ's machine is concerned, so they went to break, we all know what was going on, but it seems to me as bad as it was for someone else, or someone else, I personally called him on several occasions, but it seems to me that he came out of this story stronger and if he put it thoroughly, that there would be a different situation, here. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] That's my impression, I might be wrong. When we talk about election fraud, when we're talking about signatures at all, I mentioned it in the replica of my colleague Bulju, we have 11 presidential candidates, without some systematic check, without comparing whether we have double signatures. Some of them are players. The graver of justice, Ante Djapic was inserted here to take votes and attack, we saw what his agenda was, that he attacked Miroslav Scoru. There are some candidates on the left, the question of how much they can take votes to Zoran Milanovic even though she is the right left communist, I think she would prefer Katarina Peović than Zoran Milanovic because she is being rewarded by a red star or a star and she is wearing it to a lapel in handing over the signature. So, as it's absolutely unacceptable for me, I'm about not to be banned, not to be banned because in that sense I'm quite liberal but I'm about to highlight the symbols of totalitarian systems somehow condemn at least in public but I don't hear anyone condemn it. So we have one inflation of candidates and the election race would certainly be much more interesting if it were less candidates, why? So here, television could organize a confrontation, the question is, how are 11 candidates going to organize a confrontation with each other in the first place? It's very difficult, I don't think television will go that way at all. So we need more regular elections, we need more transparent elections, so in that sense, these legal changes that we as a club support. If you had given it to your colleague, we would have supported it, but what's just as symptomatic and what fellow Bull has warned you about, when it's said that it's not being used, I don't know, my colleague Maras is being punished for the stickers because I don't know, he used his laptop here, a political promiscuity assembly. So this here is all political promiscuity, everything we're saying, we send certain political messages, we send political messages to the electoral body, it's all kind of an agitation either for our political option or for the presidential candidates we support. I didn't notice that, a colleague Mrsic called to go to the polls, didn't even apply for any particular candidate, didn't even mention any slogans, so I don't know what was going on here. So, I guess it's our politician's job to do as much as we can to get more people to go to the polls so that that choice will reflect completely, of course, never fully but in the greater part of the will of the citizens. So we simply have to make the electoral process more transparent, we must send a message to the citizens that it is worth the vote, that the elections are not set and they must not be set up, that the one who gets the most votes and the biggest support of the Croatian people will win, I think that's the only thing that's right. And you're obviously in fear when you can't organise one session of the Veterans Committee to discuss the statements of Milorad Pupovac, it shows that you don't want any problems now and you've been looking for her, no problems in the presidential campaign. And that shows a certain fear. I don't know what the polls are like, these polls are too much I don't believe are published by television, you work, you have money, you probably do polls every little bit, you question what the situation is, and there's probably something about you that's not going in the right direction. This shows me the president's statements when he's too attached to Milan Bandic, it seems to me like a desperate struggle to get into the second round and then in the second round what God and happiness will do heroically, not thinking about how much it will mobilize these other opposites of her. She now wishes with the votes of Milan Bandic in Zagreb, with what he claims to be HDZ who will remain faithful regardless of all these wanderings, to the hospitality of his colleague Bulj, to the fact that she practically supported both Marrakesh and Istanbul Convention, that she did not stand up against this theft of the referendum on electoral legislation that they had implemented at the Ministry of Administration, that she will nevertheless ensure that the second round, or that she is fighting for the second round, seems so to me. And once again to support these amendments, but we need a full change of electoral legislation that will be much more concrete, rootier, you suggest it, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178997	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. We have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178998	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoi, we have seen a colleague from HDZ object why we support the SDP proposal and I think you said well, that and well whether it is to propose and amend electoral legislation and an electronic vote or a letter vote or no problem would be and why would it be a problem for you to suggest something to support us? No problem. But my colleague Grumoja, so naive because he's aware of it, I said it in an individual debate, that they don't get voter elections but whoever counts, they're aware of it, he's laughing at what we're saying, he wants this status to stay as it is. In the Republic of Croatia, those who count votes and not voters and the real picture that voters would like, and that's the fact, and you're aware of that, otherwise you would accept this, no matter who suggested it or you would suggest it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u178999	Thank you. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179000	Yeah, that's always the problem. I have often met with these electoral frauds, machinations, and simply man gets used to it, we live in a country where there's a lot of things wrong, it's up to us to fight in spite of the unfair electoral system, despite the frauds, I guess once it's settled, it's gonna be arranged when one government that's not the product of these old, spent structures comes in, but that's really going to work in the interest of the people, we've tried it, we've changed things that others have been afraid to change, so the resistance system has been so much, we've been like some kind of ingested vaccine for that infected organism but it's been rejected, so it's such an infection that the vaccine has been rejected. So we move on, it's not good to see my colleagues up there, but we keep fighting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179001	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179002	In your presentation, you did a differentiation on the left and on the right, it seems to me that the Social Democrats in the communists never went well, so neither did we, the Communist Left, would the candidate of the Social Democrats go well if they were the real communists and we weren't the real Social Democrats and we were. As for the role of the chairman, now meetings in the HDZ campaign and successes in the past near and far, I would like to remind you of a quote from the Prime Minister following the Europarliamentary elections. Asked for a comment on the media report on the statements by Miljan Brkic, Plenkovic said he had not seen him in this campaign and contributed nothing. Now, that's what the president of your party said to the vice president of the party, so I'm wondering how you're assessing your contribution to this campaign?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179003	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179004	I already said that. So if Mr. Chairman, our Vice President Brkic put himself in that campaign for European elections, the results would be different, and I was talking about it, and now what he's doing is there, while he's handing over the list, standing but not inside, you can see when you see it standing, if it wasn't 100% inside, yes, by face, by attitude, if it wasn't there, if it were, then there wouldn't be any fear at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179005	Thank you, comrade Grumo. I'd like to ask you nicely who you'll be replicating or discussing in the future, to get back on the subject. We move to the final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honored colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179006	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you would do well to take note of this proposal proposed by the SDP. Otherwise, MOST has also made a proposal that is in the process of amending the electoral system for three preferential votes because it is very important that people can choose here, however, have the right to choose because it is very important to control the electoral processes. I told them, maybe it's a bit of a joke, but unfortunately it's true in Croatia, that they don't get the election of those who vote, but those who count. Those who count take as much as they need, vote dead, vote those who move out, all vote. Of course, at this point when it comes to committees themselves, it's a good thing it was like what's for parliamentary elections, what's for local, county and parliaments, and for mayors and mayors, but unfortunately you don't accept it. Our view of the club is that it would be good if we had unanimously accepted this, or if most of us had a hard time accepting this, they could have suggested this and it wouldn't be any problem. The same was similar recently when, before the Europarliamentary elections, we also opposed the increase of two, three times the funding of 880 amendments with the aim of stopping, there was something more amendments missing, so it couldn't have gone through. I think that... Parliamentarians also send a message that they should not express their views or political attitudes or even call on the public or from this pay phone because everyone is responsible for us, if anyone is doing it, then it does, Vice President Brkic has warned the MP that he is not using it, I believe that here everyone is using everything in politics and thus creating, I see that it is very important at this point not only Bandic what we mention and his voters and I see that it is important that Milorad Pupovac and SDSS and that simply that HDZ has played quite well because in moments now when they need it, they do not call even a session of the Committee on Veterans that they have initiated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you don't call the Veterans' session on the statement by Milorad Pupovac that you said were harmful, for me, I have my position on the Milorad Pupovac that I will publicly present and present it, but now it has to be delayed until after the presidential elections, so it will be for parliamentary elections, you will attack it by the time the elections come, when it is due to raise your hands on Fridays because you all raise your hands together on Fridays, and that is the hypocrisy of Croatian politics. I also proposed to the Veterans Committee and there was a colleague, Brkic, when I suggested that when it came here for the public because HDZ every day attacked Milorad Pupovac, it was press, it was meetings, it was invited associations to come here on Fridays and that you, together with veterans, were already so intolerable to be in cooperation with Pupovac, not to support Friday's budget. The answer was from Josip Djakic, so we're not stupid enough to commit political suicide. So, a lot of hypocrisy, I think that this bill is good, I think we should support it, I think that election committees are very important, I think that the great influence of the election committees is mainly me arguing in the Dalmatian Zagora in certain municipalities, I can testify from the time I was also a candidate, that there are a lot of illogical things, that obvious things, and that to search all the signatures, would simply be catastrophic. As far as the signatures and signatures are concerned, so of course the problem is that the electoral... Did you sign it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would reduce the possibility that people who aren't there, if they didn't sign... It was probably signed on their behalf because in these boxes as a colleague of Grmoi, in these boxes, who knows who has all the signatures because DIP doesn't care to check it out, they checked up to a certain number it's important that the HDZ gathered and Anti Djapic, helped to collect the signatures, why, because it's very important for him to be involved here, that graver of justice, that simple attack of a political dangerous candidate for K. Grabar Kitarović and therefore it works in the Republic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what we're witnessing, and of course he's now in fear of K. Grabar Kitarović, of course there's going to be a little bit of a kala, he's now strengthened, he's strengthened, he's had terrible blows from his party, he's ahead of him time, he's young now, he's there full of strength and energy, I believe he'll keep this status as well and will be held, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179007	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Secretary of State. ... Comrade Bauk, you haven't called. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Comrade Bauk, there's only one thing that means one thing and the other doesn't mean anything. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So you didn't sign up, I'm really sorry, but taught by this experience, I hope you'll get back to me next time. I have concluded the debate, and I thank the Secretary of State for the presence in this debate, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all points of the agenda for today, we continue to work tomorrow morning and 9:30 with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Implementation of the EC Regulation. And I thank you for a pleasant rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 7:13 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179008	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Election of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 683, the applicant is the SDP Representatives' Club and the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Club of Representatives submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendment of the SDP Club of Representatives. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 73 against and 38 have decided not to hold a debate on the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives. In accordance with Article 252. The rules of procedure for the adoption of the law require a majority of all MPs, but before that, a colleague of the Grbins appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179009	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. What are you afraid of? So, one...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179010	What are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179011	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179012	Well, you didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179013	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179014	Well, it's nothing, so that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179015	But let me, let me, you told me, I'm only in that tone, so you knew what I was looking for at the end of the line because I announced that table, so, well, it doesn't matter. So, you approve me to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179016	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179017	Dear colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority, what are you afraid of? What you are afraid of, therefore, is quite unusual that parliamentary practice does not approve of the debate on the amendments of the proposings. You have now not even approved to discuss this, and in fact we have only moved on what you asked for, and you have asked that when it comes to amending the Republic President's Elections Act we do not go into signing but only, that it is only talking about election committees and that we do this as in all other laws on all elections in the Republic, but it does not suit you now. This was the only issue that we wanted to resolve with this amendment, but you obviously didn't want to do it either and thus showed your true face, which is that what you are responsible for European elections, in elections for the Croatian Parliament, in elections for the mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. you do not want to apply to the election of the President of the Republic. And do you know why? Because obviously with the fig in your pocket you want to cheat, you want to steal in the election, and we can only tell you one thing, you won't, gentlemen, you won't because the citizens of the Republic will go to this election and stop you from trying to steal. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority, you can laugh, you can clap all you want, but we won't let you steal. I am looking for a break and the name of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult on our vote-related position after such an absolutely unacceptable shameless and I have no other words of conduct, where you do not want to allow a debate in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179018	I ask you only for the sake of those who follow us, the debate on this was held, so you subsequently gave the amendment, but the debate was, the law was filed in accordance with the procedures, the debate was conducted, and I ask you not to leave the impression that the debate was not allowed, when the debate was and now you were still talking under the break. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179019	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You injured the article and the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn your HDZ colleagues who had been alerted about the theft in these presidential elections because of the fear of losing Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic all along nervously to their colleagues and colleagues, Grbino, who explained our break. You won't rob these elections like you robbed during the Fimi Media, you won't steal Colinda is still counting days very briefly [[Employer: A fellow Maras timed out.]] And you'll see it very soon. [[Come on, please.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179020	Come on, please, I mean talking about stealing from the election is really inappropriate for me and it has to be very hard to prove. I don't know about any cases of theft since the '90s when we're in the election. This law also, uh, bothered me that, but this one really has no reason to. Here you go, pal Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179021	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to consult on this, this terrible meal and the lie that's been told. In fact, we've never been there before to make some kind of fraud happen in the presidential election. People are afraid, afraid of Croatian citizens, and thus creates an alibi for the loss of a certain SDP candidate. And they know very well that the election committees are impartial and they know very well that they can control all parties' election committees and be constantly in all stages of choosing and overseeing them. Therefore, such fiction is a clean alibi for losing the election, and of course it will be a loss of choice when it comes to a candidate they have. About a candidate who, when he was prime minister, threw economically on his knees, about a candidate who argued with a number of countries, about a candidate who actually argued with virtually everyone, told professors among other things about their demand for pay raises that comic blackmail, who quarreled with doctors, claiming that they were quitters and circusers, with the Constitutional Court, with the church, with bishops, Špickina, employers, workers, and then just before joining the EU, made it almost impossible for us to join the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179022	Okay, and this break will be approved. A colleague of Vlaovic and you answered the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179023	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues are looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats in order to consult on this topic about how we will continue to debate and vote because this is indeed a precedent that has not been allowed to discuss the amendment that went into the context of what most of us and wanted to speak so publicly before the amendment was submitted. We have already pointed out that it is not a good practice for Business to discuss amendments when tabled on different drafts of the law, and only then, after 2, 3 days, to vote on the same amendments, so that MPs who were not at the debate and who do not know what they are voting on and certainly and that it is not good for demographic procedures in the Republic of Croatia to introduce such a practice to discuss amendments and votes on amendments in this way. And when it came to this proposed law, it was to invite citizens to the elections and I believe that citizens will go to the polls because they are interested in getting a new president, a normal president, and live in a normal state, and not to raise doubts about whether they are in the elections, in certain polling stations, some voted who did not come to the polls and were such cases, we hear it from members of the electoral committees, there have been remarks in the previous elections of such actions, but there are no sanctions that occur in practice and I think it is correct that anyone who comes to the polling post to sign a ballot and thus avoids suspicion that there has been a fake election results. I think we all need one democratic procedure, a real election, a new normal president, and I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179024	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179025	Thank you very much. In the name of the Independent Youth List Club, we are looking for a break to consult, in fact, on behalf of all those people who are looking for a little peace, understanding and desire that the presidential elections that are now in full swing, do not take over the entire space of communication especially all of what we have pre-divines to normal people. We believe that even such debates as we have now and each other's transfers are neither in a democratic spirit nor in a desire to really change something, so here we are looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-05-0.u179026	Okay, is anyone else picking up? If we don't continue at 13 o'clock and 28 minutes, then please be there. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.28 HOURS]] The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, for the adoption of the law, requires a semi-half majority of all MPs, so 76. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Election of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, which is not accepted by the Government as well as by parliamentary working bodies. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal did not get enough votes, 26 were for, 3 abstentions and 73 against, so the law was not passed.
