ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130178	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're starting today's work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 226 century 2 Rules of Procedure, I will extend the addition of the 11th session agenda with two new points. These are the Final Proposal of the Law on the Selection of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities, Second Reading, P.Z. No 557; Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, second reading, P.Z. No. 574. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of Written Objections, no proposal to supplement the agenda, lays down that the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 11th session. We would now move on to the first point today, which is: - Report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2017, with financial indicators; the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 6 Strategic Stocks Act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, Mario Antolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130179	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. It's a good morning to all of us, first of all. We have a regular annual report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2018 with all financial indicators. As we know, business in state goods stocks in 2017 was rejected in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the rules applicable to the budget and the budgetary users and the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law states that strategic stockpiles are to be created to provide basic supplies at a time of war or a direct threat to independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia and in the case of major natural disasters and technological and environmental disasters. Stock supplies can also be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. Stock stocks cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market. In 2017, total revenue of €129.9 million was generated, expenditure of €78.6 million and an excess revenue of €51.3 million was achieved, which, with excess income and income from previous years, amounted to €5.3 million, makes available an surplus of revenue of € 56.6 million. This amount of revenue or surplus revenue has already been used for most of the supply of goods and the completion of the balance sheet of the strategic stock and for ongoing and additional investments in its own warehouses. In 2017, the purchase of goods and the complete balance of strategic commodity stocks amounting to 40.5 million kuna, the purchase of food products, 15 thousand tonnes of corn, 20 tonnes of powdered eggs, 20 tonnes of flour, 125 tonnes of pig meat in.../incomprehensible/..., 100 tonnes of pasta and 100 thousand litres of oil, and 5 thousand pieces of protection vanes and 5 high capacity pumps were made. The total value of the stock stock on 31.12.2017 was 575.6 million kuna. In 2017, the Directorate of Stock Stocks intervened with 18 auto-cisters during the catastrophic fires that affected Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Zadar and Sibenik-Knin County from June to September 2017. The town's Red Cross, Ogulin, was dedicated to the use of 20 vacuum cleaners to help repair the flood that hit Ogulin. In order to increase preparedness in the fire season, as well as potential flood hazards, new contracts have been concluded on the storage, maintenance and use of fire equipment, housing equipment and aggregates and water pumps. Contracts are concluded with units of local self-government, DVDs and district units of the HGSS. Also, for the purpose of helping local self-government units, for temporary use until 31 December 2017, a number of dedicated water-carcisters have been transferred from strategic stockpiles. From stockpiles, it was intervened by delivering a housing container for the purpose of taking care of a vulnerable family. It is also given to use 10 small lifeboats with a transport trailer, 20 sandbags and 5 high capacity pumps in areas most threatened by floods. It is also given regularly as every year, the goods aid to the Caritas of the Crossing diocese for the needs of the poorest families through the delivery of flour, fish and meat cans, jam, cheese, pasta, sugar and rice worth just over 7 million kuna. Due to the fundamental disasters that have hit us in recent years, in collaboration with the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, strategic stockpiles are increasingly being used and further completion is important in order to enable more efficient use and availability of supply supplies. This is what we suggest that the report be accepted in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130180	Thank you very much. We have one replica, two replicas respected, the first respected representative of Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130181	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to highlight one thing, which is that the issue of food, supplies and everything else is extremely important, okay, and I understand that it is directed in the right direction, but first of all, I would like to talk about the tanks of something that is happening with us, the fires are one of the things that are constant in Croatia, and therefore my suggestion would be that the issue of tanks or all of what supply supplies should be far greater. That's what I'm saying for the reasons what the current schedule is and it's never going to be spent if it's used in the peacetime I think it's an extremely important thing, especially how much it means to volunteer fire companies, to the community of fire in general and to the hundred reasons.../incomprehensible/... that, in fact, in the experiences we've had so far, it's precisely the fact that it's the best stock to be activated and activated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130182	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130183	Thank you very much, Vice-President, and I would like to ask that the report for 2017 is in 2019, and yet given the excellent statements made by our health minister Kujundzic, who said that the meat in which Escherichia and salmonella is located is not really dangerous if it is treated thermally, and he did not stress that it should be treated thermally enough, so it is likely that the infected meat can also end up in stock. Can you guarantee that there is no infected meat from Poland in the stock you have purchased this year?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130184	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130185	Thank you very much for asking, we can absolutely guarantee that this meat didn't end and it won't be in stock since we only get live meat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130186	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, as you can guarantee that this meat is not infected because it is not controlled and meat imported on the single market, means that it was not Polish meat and that it was not discovered by the problem probably your ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture would not know at all that it was infected meat and that our citizens ate about 500 kilos of chebab or meat that were roasted and sold to chebabs and on this side I wonder if every kilogram of meat or samples were tested in stock and on the other hand, I do not understand why you did not single out of these 51 million kunas for firefighters more than 2.6 million kunas as much as we saw a couple of days ago, because of the total amount, that profit does not invest in our firefighters in order to have adequately equipped services during natural disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130188	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130189	So, thank you very much for asking, as far as meat is concerned, I'm going to repeat that strategic stockpiles only use live cattle, so unprocessed meat is not imported, and canned meat is obtained from renowned domestic producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130190	Thank you. He wants the committee reporter to take his word for it, no. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored Representative Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130191	Thank you, Mr. President, I welcome the Secretary of State and Assistant, here are the state supply supplies are certainly an important area and it is good that the Croatian Assembly discusses the State Stock Exchange report because it is intended for times of crisis and certainly strategic stockpiles are also important from the social aspect, but also from the social and humanitarian roles in each country and there are the most expressions of their organisation, preparation in exceptional situations. Here, unfortunately, we in our country have had a number of natural disasters affecting the state, and that is where the quality of the organisation and filling of the supply supplies was seen, so that in cooperation with the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, the Croatian Fire Department used all these strategic stockpiles, it was also to provide the evacuated population, because there are boats that are in stock. Also supplying drinking water, here already mentioned this supply of tanks that are very important in summer months to put out fires, but also for supplying drinking water to a part of the area where there is no drinking water especially in these rural areas. Also, the construction of the floods covered by the floods was also one of the important activities and use of supply supplies. It was most seen in 2014 when there was a catastrophic flood in eastern Slavonia where the stock stores here intervened immediately, practically within a few hours at the request of responsible people in the area. The State Administration for Protection and Rescue immediately referred food, equipment and for the care of the population. They actively delivered the food and equipment needed to supply the population and the operational forces, and then over 31 million kunas were delivered from the stock. The activity was also seen when migrants arrived in 2015 when they hired 18 million immediately, and in 2016 another 2 million. Special commendation was at the time of the great fires when it was intervened from 18 auto-cisterns to the area where the catastrophic fires were covered, and last year when the fire season was intervened in those areas at the bottom of Lokva, Rogoznica where one fire company was left without 2 fire trucks immediately was an intervention, here and I thank you for the expeditionivity of the stock. It is very important to take care here of the movement of goods and equipment and the storage and use of the same equipment. These all tanks have given the best effect, the most effective effect, not to pay for any storage, but to those vehicles in operation for 24 hours, 365 days, the report, the stock market surveillance, the authorized people who control both the correctness and storage of these fire tanks, so we join all colleagues who have already spoken, and this is kind of a debate every year when the stock report is, that even more funds are allocated to the purchase of new fire tanks. It is not a great budget for those who are devoting themselves from the government, that the appeal should be made here and the Government to increase these original funds budgets so that this work and plus these own revenues can be helped and this is particularly important in these rural areas, poor areas which do not have the strength or equip their voluntary fire companies, and here are our saviors, practically, these funds from the stock. We are aware that responsibility for the protection against fires on local self-government units and that they should and should be responsible under the Constitution for the protection against fires in their territory but here is how some areas are very poor then this is a very important intervention, the storage is secured and so these tanks can be stored in quality. In addition, the further creation of supply supplies in an indirect way would also be given to economic activity, clearly, the purchase of these products that are held as supply supplies, also helps our economy, so that this is the next worth of the stock. And the emphasis in further business means putting on providing funds for the purchase of goods and further modernising storage space which through this government budget, through other activities. The budget itself is made of quality, and here it is commendable that it is, there is no Mrs. Anke Mrak Taritash, last year, if I'm not mistaken, it was last year that he proposed an amendment to separate these food and technical products and this is what we see in this report made so that means all the good ideas were adopted and the principalship clearly presented it through this report and made such a purchase in the last year. It is very important to pay within all suppliers, it is commendable and here in the report it is said, means month for month wages and it is also one burden, old debts, we see that large debts, by 2004, are actually a constant weight of the principalship and now, I don't know how this accounting and financial can be resolved to try, ultimately to settle these old debts, not to... some companies that have long been in trouble and sure that it will be difficult to collect from them and other than these properties where quality is placed on payment security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also needs to be commended for this quality management, financial management, to ensure financial resources and that there is no longer the possibility to get into trouble, all of this contributes to the fact that this report is quality-presented here through this report in writing and that it is to praise the work and activity of our Director for Stocks and Encouragement to continue through... and what we are trying to do through further budget demand, to strengthen stock stocks as a very important segment, here we have seen country preparations for crisis situations and since the overall state of the world today is such that we can expect both crises of various species and elemental disasters and due to climate change, then surely we must further invest in stock stocks and find ways to strengthen this sector by means of financial resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130192	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to an individual debate and the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must begin here immediately to mention that I speak as a Croatian representative who loves their country unlike some who are able to insult me at party gatherings such as Mr. Sanader a few days ago said that my speech in the Croatian Parliament was an attack on Croatia. I love my country, love and teach my children, work in the interest of my voters, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I would recommend to Mr. Sanader, Mr. Boban that they do not support the lowest passions at their party gatherings or maybe return to Karamark's beginnings when he spoke about caves in Omis, etc., and people called from the audience. So that's what I had to say because I'm talking about Yes, I'm going back on the subject now, but I had to say that it's amazing that in the Croatian Parliament, I have to start my debate this way because some irresponsible politicians like Mr. Ante Sanader at party meetings say that Gordana Maras because she thinks HDZ is doing bad, doesn't like her country. [[Intruder Reiner: Can we get back to the topic, please?]] Of course, people don't generally think that, but I had to say this because of the dignity of this House. As far as stockpiles are concerned and everything we've received here in the report, the question is, in some ways, the need for stock supplies and the amount of goods that we store in stock stocks and the structure of the goods that we keep in stock. So this is what a fellow secretary of state said, about 129 million kunas of income and 78 million kunas of expenditure and 51 million kunas of profit. And now that you look at the whole state and what's the point of essentially stockpiling and what's basically held on to a warehouse in stock, the question is, are they even fulfilling their purpose? So, for example, whether the value of the eggs powder of a million and 700,000 kn, 350,000 kn flour or 20 000 kg or 120 000 kg will help if, if, if God has not given, something happens to us, it is that we are running out of these goods or that an emergency situation may happen, whether these goods, in my opinion, have a lot of symbolic effects on certain things and trends in the Republic of Croatia or whether it would be more useful for us to have that money, because I think that quantity of goods ultimately serves as a means of buying, selling and the question is, in any way, how it works, sell and then distribute with it later, or we would be more useful to have what we really need in stock, and what we need every year, we have problems with certain floods, every year we have problems with fires, every year we have these kinds of natural disasters. So, I haven't heard at all, but perhaps since the war, I haven't heard that there was a problem with the scarcity of any food product, and then the question is why we have it in stock at all, and in these quantities, which is why we don't transfer these funds to what we really need every year, fire departments, water pumps, pumps, water delivery trucks, quality water transport trucks, when unfortunately water pollution happens, which is, for example, that should be done because it comes from Split and Dalmatia, and not whether Maras said this or what, and whether he's a friend or an enemy of this or that, means, you should deal with it because every time a little stronger rain in Dalmatia is clouding sources, we have water from the time of Diocletian, and on that side we don't have quality infrastructure and then the tank waters are running around in the water in the water industry, so we't come to the water industry, so we't come to the palmas, so we't come to the pa. etc., on this side we should make sure that we have sufficient quality equipment that could bridge those needs that Croatian citizens certainly have and which are really very much needed. When we look at the floods, when we look at the surrounding surroundings of Karlovac, Sisak, Velika Gorica, every year people have a lack of water pumps, a lack of material to plant the embankment, that's what we need critically on stock supplies about what we should have at any time to activate, so if we need two, three times more than we need, I don't think that 120 000 kilograms of flour or 125 000 kilograms of pig, means, either course or oil can help us in any way and that it helps us because we see that this stuff is being traded year after year, selling, and then it means that it's being repeated, or it's getting new and it's being filled with supplies on that side. And when the question is raised, how many stocks did they have in 2017? The question arises why we are not focusing that profit on this particular needs. Now we have seen that the principalship has bought several boats and a water pump worth 2 million and 600,000 kn, which is why we do not use the whole, the whole amount, all the means to try to prepare ourselves for, I'm sure since climate change at work, is an increasingly unpredictable time and growing problems in terms of floods, elemental disasters, etc. I don't see any strategy here, and I'm kind of asking the directorship not to act like it's about 20 or 25 years ago. We have a new situation and new needs, and on this side of the stock structure at this time does not meet the needs of the Republic of Croatia because there are shortages happening, said a colleague earlier here, so, in the case of firefighters, there are shortages in natural disasters, rains, storms, floods, unfortunately Croatia's waters are not very well kept, and this is partly reflected on our people who almost practically come into trouble from year to year in certain areas and have to solve their houses, unfortunately, these are the unpleasant scenes we watch almost every year. And so, here's why, except for this statistics that we get from year to year I don't see any strategy in which we're going, it's not the point of keeping some goods that we don't need, so sell it next year, so buy a new one from the budget, so it's again, but the point is to have quality stock supplies of what we need at all times. I think we have to go from this part that's related to food products, I say once again, I haven't seen a shortage of eggs, no flour, no pork, no corn, no pasta, no oil, and we don't have any problem with that, even if there's a need to react in some area with some humanitarian help, it can be handled by the government from the reserve within a very short period of time and react if necessary. On that side, here, I call on both the Ministry and the Secretary of State to tell us these answers that are related to what we will need in the future, which is why this is no longer planned in the stockpiles, and that this concept simply changes and therefore does not take advantage of these 50 and some million kunas available already because it is here, that additionally our firefighters and I would say, Mountain Rescue Services all those who are activated in certain situations when the elemental disasters are even better equipment compared to what they had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130194	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130195	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Maras, you said she wasn't here, shorts of corn, grains and all that. I believe basic grains are important in the stock reserves, but I believe that the supply reserves in the Republic of Croatia are too small, that they are not adequately prepared and that even at this point, we may not even know exactly what is in the stock reserves. We see the amount of some kind of value, but are these adequate stock reserves, which can solve some kind of threat that occurred in the Republic of Croatia. Climate change has shown that we can count on anything and anything that can happen, and I don't think we're ready and I think it's very easy to get that case back a few years ago, when the silos stayed empty and what no one was responsible for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130196	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130197	It's a special problem. So in the past, there was a situation where only on paper was recorded that there were certain reserves, I don't know, it wouldn't be bad for the Secretary of State to tell us in which the periodical period was controlled by the situation at the warehouse, we remember that even in the Croatian Parliament there was one commission that was dealing with the disappearance of goods from the stock reserves, it was a commission, which determined that it was the '90s. It was created and there were huge differences in the amount of what was being led and what was ultimately de facto real and was there. So I agree with your finding that these figures on paper don't have to mean anything in practice unless a fellow secretary of state explains to us how to control these quantities in the stock reserves themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130198	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Veljak Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130199	I thank you, dear colleague, for mentioning the stock reserves with which I fully agree with you, and that's where you mentioned, especially when it comes to food and all those others. I just wanted to point out the same way that we... to containers in particular... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The disasters that occurred in Rajjev Selo and Gunja, and certain containers we don't know anything about today, or anything with regard to them in the same way that in these elemental disasters the Roma community doesn't do them well, but uses them well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is precisely necessary that those containers that may be standing on the sidelines and not being in good shape can be applied very well, such as the Roma community, which most Roma community members live even in forests, in some certain tents, where the attorney general specifically mentioned in her reports on several occasions how.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130200	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130201	Thank you very much, Comrade Kajtazi. I agree with you, unlike some who copy the lowest passions at party gatherings and insult their colleagues from the Croatian Parliament, you are taking care of your constituents and on that side, I think it is absolutely necessary to use the possibility that everything that may have come out of the stock reserves, and perhaps at this point it is not even recorded or what you would say, written off, to see whether it can be put into operation and that it can be used in some of the best possible way. This proposal of yours is something that I would like to do if I were a secretary of state right now, and right after this session, I've been reviewing, I've invited you to see what we can do about it, because it's just too bad. If there's a capacity to do something, don't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130202	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130203	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, you mentioned in your presentation that you do not remember at all whether or not there may be some shortage of food products, wheat, corn, etc. I can only say thank God it's not. Does that mean that something isn't, that it shouldn't be ready, that I'm here as fond of you, because that logic can be interpreted more extensively, that since in some medical facilities, hospitals, or any buildings, there's never been a fire, so what's there to do with fire protection? God forbid, I'm just gonna say it. I think the system should be, that it has shown itself during these last, especially years, from migrants, to fires, to floods extremely necessary, and why? So it can be a safe and quick reaction, not waiting for public procurement or I don't know what, the moment the hours matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130204	the response of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130205	I agree with you, Mr. Churay, and that's what I was talking about, the fires and floods where I don't think it's adequately filled and that we should kind of change it structurally, and go more in that direction, less in the direction of what I just said about food products, but we agree, but I believe that both the stock reserves will do, given that they see what needs and what they lack in recent years. So here we are on the same threshold, and I believe that since you support HDZ at the polls and that you have moved from opposition to opposition, in some way we have deceived our voters, that Mr. Ante Sanader thinks that you are the greatest patriot and that you love your country and will never tell you that you are an enemy of Croatia at some party gathering. He'll probably be calling with you right now at the meetings somewhere. So here, let's say, one plus, that Mr. Sanader thinks you're a patriot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130206	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130207	I thank you that here we are, truly, if we were to be guided like who he thinks we would not have gone far and looked back at anyone without passing... I don't think anyone who throws a stone would ever get anywhere, so I'm not paralysing anything else. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you to, Chairman, let's get back to the subject. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I am speaking here in the 2017 report, and I would only repeat once again for the public as to the most important stock structure. So I'd just rough up 85% of the stock actually makes 14 main types of products among them, of course, and are wheat, corn as something that's in almost a quarter of the total supply. Of course, there are dry meals, all day long dry meals, different cans, different types of fuel, but let's say the multi-purpose tanks there are if I'm not mistaken somewhere 18 that have been deployed, which are either during the flood or during the fires extremely used and, unfortunately, I have to say, unfortunately in the last 4.5 years the extraordinary management of the stock has become important. That maybe the wheat wasn't used for that purpose, so that's good, don't let God get to something, that we need it. But also because it never came and said that we'll never need it or we don't need it, I don't think that's the point, then the whole point of this, just these supplies are losing their meaning because we have to be prepared for all kinds of disasters, disasters, market shortages or any other threats. Of course, when we talk about supplies here, we need to talk about strategic planning and defence tasks, or in the defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the total amounts are concerned, I believe somewhere around 466 million if I read well the stock values that are practically shared according to agricultural food products and not food products. So it's not just food products, I mentioned these more multi-purpose tanks, which are extremely now distributed by voluntary fire companies, strategically throughout the country. And here in the last fires, all the tanks went to me from Slavonia because they were called and they all went out on the field. And that's important because she can be inside 24 hours where she needs to be. We're also talking about all these other products, they can, as soon as necessary, when we've had a migrant crisis, all the supplies have been used. Floods in Gunja, too, so we can't wait to see if there's any on the market. And what happens when there's a great demand on the market? Prices are rising. What he's trying to say to a merchant who sells whole-day dry meals, canned cans, powdered eggs, anything you need, milk, all of what you need all of a sudden when he tells you unplanned or something like that happens, such a disaster that you need 50 grand of something that's going to be the lowest price. The market will dictate the price. And then you'll be paying something three times the price and then there'll always be some opposition today, you tomorrow, someone else who doesn't care how bad it was planned, at which point you'll find something to get and look for responsibilities. And that's the opposition, that's what every opposition had the right to say because it wasn't planned, because it wasn't predicted, because there's nothing in the supplies, which is why we don't have the supplies. So it's extremely important, maybe it seems like a kind of thing, let's say not well-allocated state resources that could be used elsewhere. But I'm saying, security sometimes doesn't have a price. How much we invest only in fire protection and citizens and people themselves, persons and so on. And a series of other things with a goal, God forbid we never need them. And at the end of the line, every entrepreneur who's done anything, knows what he has to pay to secure from, well there's also the cover-up of that label clearly pointed out for the machine, the minors are more important that you have more stickers than the machine itself, but we'll already hope so and solve it so it goes on contortion maybe the Ministry of Economy or already who's in charge, whose inspection, it will now be united. But yes, you must have that apparatus that like no one will ever use. Well, thank God he won't. God forbid he has to. So I don't think that's the point, of course we can talk about structure, but I don't think that this structure has occurred to anyone, that it's something that's already far in the world recognized why, which part of the dry meals, what amount, what ratios, that it takes to react to the first one until then it can be done full supply of all these funds when the threat continues or sees how it is. So that's not at all controversial. And I think that just since 2014, in 2015, from the migrant crisis, from the floods, from the fires, these exactly goods have played a huge role, at all civil protection meetings and crisis headquarters, is exactly the representative of whether the ministry or someone in front of the supply supplies so that they know how to be able to allocate well together and act in the field where it is most needed. And that's why I'm saying we now had the freshest example of deployment of tankers, or multi-purpose tanks for new fire-fighting places where it was extremely good. Of course, the water shortage was also a situation in Slavonski Brod when there was pollution, so it can always act quickly and not get into some procedure that will give you whether this one should not weaken, of course, the professional fire department and take their vehicles that are in the event of intervention. So we have to have such a way to say available or a healthy peasant that they have some on the lager of certain things that must be available within at least 24 hours where it should be. So it's the meaning of all these supplies, and I think first of all we're talking about security here, the speed of reaction, and God gave us God that none of these supplies will ever be needed. That's the goal of it all, that's the goal of ensuring whatever, whether life, health, meaning everything, you pay something in the hope that you'll never really need, evil shouldn't. Here's what needs to be seen and should be seen, I agree that you should constantly watch what is the curvature of these stocks, how they move both on markets and prices follow well and see deadlines. So not behaving like a drunken billionaire, but really following you, let's say both the kind and the stock market if we talk about wheat and corn, etc., that he can react when something is cheap to buy, when something is expensive to renew, sell. For the record, you might be able to increase the revenues of those stockpiles on that part yourself. But that's, I say by the way, not to question that someone out there is mixing with something and going to make money and that it's a threat to something that it's not going to be. That absolutely doesn't. If he can be great, he can behave responsibly and generally manage it. That's the goal for as little cost as possible, for the largest curent stock and with the best quality of stock actually. Here, I think, as far as this report is concerned, of course, and we're going to accept it as anyone else, and I think that it really just showed its true picture, unfortunately in these, countless cases that we've had in just a few recent years, and I think that here I would really quote, end up with a quote from the material itself, that constantly available supplies provide smooth and timely intervention and elimination of consequences and exclude dependence on the market, the manufacturing sector, import and international aid. So independence in providing assistance to its own citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130208	Thank you very much. There's a strange sequence of replicas. First, he's a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130209	Thank you very much. Mr. Churay, I don't know if you agree with me, but look at the structure, so, a 40 million-dollar supply of what you just mentioned, which is what the firefighters are doing, which is what a fellow Sanader would have to stand for most, but he's worried about who said what he said in the Parliament and his grades and insolences at party meetings, uh, it's only 9 million and 800 thousand kn, and the food is 30, almost 31 million kn. I'm saying that this structure should change in the future because if we only have 5 high capacity pumps, and believe me, it's autumn for people in certain parts of Croatia that you mentioned, every year such stress that they watch rain or spring when it melts snow that they simply can't come to themselves. I'm talking to you This structure should be changed from these needs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130210	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130211	Thanks, buddy. You, on all well-intentioned mentions, therefore, make up almost 25% of total non-food products. Now, you have to ask, how many times have pumps been used in this capacity. How much, do you know? You don't know. Is it possible they were all used? Or could it be one or two? Now, that's something that the profession needs to determine, that's something that needs to be seen in different ways of jeopardizing, whether those 5 pumps have ever been turned on, how much and when and whether they were involved at the same time. That's actually what it is, which is a question, and I think we're talking about things here that maybe we don't have much information about, but this way we can just go on and play with them. Also, we have 5,000 protective combinations. Did more than 2,000 safety combinations suddenly use at some point? We've ever seen 1,000 people walk somewhere all of a sudden, that's when the floods were, so you get hooked up or when some rains are etc., but now I don't remember it being so much at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130212	The next replica, the respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Curaj, you were saying that strategic stock reserves are made of wheat, corn, live pigs and junk and that's right, that's the biggest part and... Targeted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, I'm wondering if you think it would be good, that if the market had to regulate the price, would it be good and the state would be the price regulator over the stock reserves? In the event that the situation of the market, at this point we have an extremely low price of pigs, whether the state should intervene through the stock reserves to buy two, three thousand pigs, now that the price is low, and then when the price is high, fire 3,000 pigs, to regulate the price again, not to wild again. Do you think that way you could regulate the market,... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130214	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130215	Thank you. Yeah, actually your question is whether the stock reserves should be CNB. I don't think that's their goal, whether we as a state should have a single body that will regulate the market, I think it would then come into breach of certain laws that we have implemented in our competition legislation that the state actually shouldn't intervene, I don't think that would be possible. As it is in the financial world, here, as you said, it is the direct work of the CNB that regulates with regard to the course of layoff, withdrawal, different reserves etc. and thus sucreates the price of money on the market and the quantity in the end line. Whether the stock reserves would go down, no, we have an example of Italy where something like that happens in wheat. But to come across a wider consumption, if something has been declared not of structural, national importance, I don't know, but this part of the wheat, it could be considered whether it's possible and possible, I think that through state reserves and through some other ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130216	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Lenart has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130217	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Curaj, you said that, here's the opposition only criticises, and it's not the task of the opposition to criticise, I hope that criticism of the opposition will encourage perhaps to review the stock reserves because there's certainly a lot of value on the inventory list, and it probably serves nothing. Stock reserves should serve as a market regulator, as does the National Bank with foreign exchanges and certainly is not the opposite of the law, and sometimes they were intervention purchases of pigs that regulated and encouraged farming, but also regulated the market. Unfortunately, when there's a threat, like in Costa Rica, when they've left the houses on the rink, they come in ruling, they take pictures of the state, the county, and then the people are left alone to fight their problems. Stock reserves should not be afraid of criticism, however, it is positive to question them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130218	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130219	Thank you. My colleague Lenart, I may not have said that the opposition criticises, but it would rightly question the opposition and that is the task, to say, any one, I didn't mean it for the present but in general, I said tomorrow someone else, if something wasn't done well, planned, that's what to say. And that's what needs to be corrected, I agree. As for this last slide of yours, I think that the last slides that we've had right now and through the Ministry of Civil Engineering are the vast majority of people, the houses have already been renovated, some of which have been emigrated, so this is a positive example that you've cited, and as far as this management is concerned with both the market and the structure of the products on the market, as well as their price, we now need to see what is the strategic task of supply and reserve supplies. We're talking security here, strategic action, both defensive and time-threatening. Of course a great shortage of a particular product can be and that's the point, but the regular activity of the impact on the price I don't think it is. Here, I don't think it's their task, but we can still see if anyone should do it or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130220	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130221	Dear fellow, it's actually strange that some MPs, question at all the need of the reserve, regardless of what it's about, because it says that every country has to take serious care of it, and we know that the most important thing is actually food, when anything happens, then what we know, that our stock reserves, actually enable over 50,000 people, that it can be fed for more than 30 days, which is very important and exactly what you said, that at that moment ad hoc something like that can be obtained and carried out in public procurement, but really for such extreme situations, we must always be prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130222	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130223	Yeah, that's exactly what this was, a fellow Maras who talks about structure, that there should be more non-food products, I don't think there's anything more important than water and food. Especially the people, the water, the food, the roof over the head, so that's the basics, those minimal needs of life, and then we can discuss something else, because they're free of us,... that we have 15 big pumps, if people won't have anything to eat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then surely with the right, everyone in this House and in society and in Croatia, should attack and say, you've secured and bought, I don't know 10 million kunas for the different equipment that stands there and is somewhere in the warehouse and doesn't do anything, and people are hungry, barefoot and cold, however, they stand. So first people, then everything else, then property, you know what the priorities of saving and intervention are, and so the supplies need to follow those priorities, which are in the world's ultimate line, and that's no hot water.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130224	And the last replica of the respected representative of Ante Snader.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130225	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, I agree with you, and you absolutely hit the center about this so that you don't take vehicles of regular fire departments, professional and craftsmen, and that we're using these tanker stock supplies, which are for these particular accidents, because it's the right solution, and that's why we're talking about what I'm talking about, that we need to see that the maximum funds are invested in these tanker stock supplies and that we leave the regular activity alone. And as for this opening part of yours, you all MPs, who are correct here and who do not insult anyone, you will have my support, as well as all MPs, and those who insult, lock, disgust each of us MPs to the chairman and representative of the ministries, do not need to whine when someone just mentions them. I think it's a minimum of correctness.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130226	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130227	Thank you... Yeah, I don't know if supporting my fellow Maras would do me any good, but any support for good work is always welcome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we should always praise what is good, possibly if someone criticises, it also does not need to be foreign, we should be immune to any such constructive criticism, of course not under the belt... And this part of the tankers, yes, well, that's the point of first fitting those public professional units, that they really lack nothing, that at an adequate, fast moment they can provide what they are for and for what they are for, and the protection system is precisely through the supply supply supply supply, and that perhaps they need to be strengthened not only with tanks, but also with other equipment, that these really schedules are strategic we have the thanks to God DVD community as one of the most organized and general societies in Croatia, which are let's say NGOs and non-professional and I think that should be used in the future and that really people know how to do their job well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130228	Thank you. Before we continue, welcome to the 10th high school gallery of pupils and students from Zagreb. ... Here he is, and now, in an individual debate, will continue the respected representative Davor Vlaovic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130229	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear State Secretary with an associate, we have a report on the state of supply management for 2017. Many would say, and I say, it would be better if we already had a report for 2018, but these data for 2017 give us enough material to question, ask ourselves questions and whether we are on the right track. Because this data that we have in stock stocks the value of 466 million kunas of some goods in a state, is asked with the right question, have we made one real analysis, a real risk assessment and whether we've been strategically considering, what goods we have on stock, what condition they are in, and whether they would be sufficient, given the opportunities around us. Because we see that climate change is like this, that every year we have an increasing number of natural disasters, that amounts, which are estimated to be in billions, so the question is, are these amounts quite sufficient? It would be good if we got to compare how many goods stocks Slovenia, Austria, or some other country, by similar areas and the struggle of the inhabitants of Croatia, to compare and whether there is one such cooperation within the EU, to react if there are shortages of some goods or really great losses of the population, equipment and people. What we are interested in from the HSS and I, which are companies from which goods are supplied in stockpiles and at what prices, is through public procurement or some kind of political arrangement. Because it is certainly not good for some to have privileged status, but we want to get first of all from domestic producers and that domestic production has a chance to place its goods and goods, and it is certainly good, to intervene on the market when there is shortages of some goods or when there is a commodity in the surplus, so the price falls below the production price. It used to be done with the intervention purchase of pigs, here and now in Croatia it's a lot... It is not this autumn and winter that has been sold, and given the threatening danger that the African swine fever in Hungary is in our environment, but that it is realistic to expect it to come to Croatia, which could be a major threat to pig farming in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We do not have any data as much as we have pig meat or live pigs in stock and whether it will be enough to feed the population and especially in the context and tourism that is growing which is good but bad information for all of us and we must ask ourselves that we do not have enough self-sufficiency in the production of most agricultural and food products and what the State Statistics Office announced last year that the total number of cattle in Croatia has decreased by 8.2%, the pig by 6.6%, sheep by 3.1%, poultry by 10.6%. That's what we really need to worry about because the secretary of state said they're holding supplies, meat in the living cattle. If this is the number of declines in production, do we have enough and are really these companies that are, they have a supply contract in such a state that they can also respond with meat delivery if there is a need. Especially why I ask, what one journalist published on one portal that from 2004 to 2017, 53 539 cows are being led as missing or as they say professionally, these are floating cattle, that they are the ones that were sent from some farm and do not end up in a legal slaughterhouse, the export is on another farm. So they're not in the records, they're somewhere in the gray zone. So I'm asking if there's any supply of those kind of throats that are on record that are in stock and they're in the gray zone, they're gone. Because we have data from previous years that often with stockpiles it wasn't a good master's march but that even some kind of robbery was made from a stock reserve. He would remind of a case of Đakovština where it only reacted when the peasants reacted and over 50 million kunas were the value of the wheat that disappeared. It's a huge number of trucks that no one has seen where they're being untied and what particularly bothers me and us in the HSS, is that no one was responsible for it. So it would be good, the State Secretary in the final report says whether there is more than Đakovština, a company where goods from stockpiles have disappeared, where a trial has been initiated, and if anyone has been convicted of the disappearance of goods from the stock reserves. And we also have to ask whether Agrokor and their companies had goods for goods and what with these goods given the Agrokor situation that the new owner or new owners we don't know about are, what with these goods and whether it will be compensated for the RH. Also mentioned are wheat and production, and unfortunately we are in decline, from about 150, 160 ha in Croatia last year, sown somewhere around 90,000 ha. This is enough to say that either our agricultural producers are turning to other productions or it is invaluable and not because our producers do not know the production but because the huge imports of over 60,000 tonnes of frozen dough are imported to Croatia. And to this information that 53,000 cattle are missing, that they are not in the register, that they are being reduced in production, the minister is not responding, and when the question is rightly asked whether any of the meat from Poland, from those slaughterhouses that slaughtered sick cows or who were before death, whether it came to Croatia, the answer was not in Croatia. After a week of saying there were only three checkpoints and yesterday it was announced in 57 places, somewhere it was estimated from 500 tonnes to 8.5 tonnes, not even how much it is. Public Health Services inspections found that meat at 57 points in Croatia was. Here is the sad fact that we do not have the right information, that we do not do the control of goods that come to Croatia and it is even sadder that we do not encourage domestic production, we do not protect it, one of the roles is certain that they can be produced through the supply supply supply of some of these products for goods and thus keep production in Croatia and we see a huge drop in the production of both cattle and poultry and of pigs and wheat growing in Croatia, the number of those leaving the Republic of Croatia is growing and it is certainly not a good message for these young people who are up at the gallery. And since I've been dealing with this problem for 8 years or even 9 years because I'm the Chief of Security and Rescue, it means I'm not speaking at all, it's what happened on the ground. There's only less than 2.6 million kunas for the fire department. I insist and ask that we consider making the right assessment of risks and needs and getting equipment for voluntary fire companies. Yeah, he needs trucks and tanks. For example, in Brod-Posavina County we did not have any drinking water tank, we used a tanker of fire companies that were for technical water, they were not supposed to be the point of delivering drinking water, unfortunately we had to use them, after these complaints that around Zagreb was 8, 9, and so were the tanks, and we didn't have any, here came two in Brod-Posavina County, thank you, but we should make a real assessment of the needs and risks and then distribute the goods from the stock needed for... But it's not just trucks and tanks, but it's also equipment, suits, shovels, boots, raincoats because everything was missing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've had about 5,000 people a day on the cross on Savi. And believe me, all that was missing. So I'm saying that we need to do a proper risk assessment and a proper assessment of the needs of the goods that we need to have in stock and not get them and buy them when we need them, then they're the most expensive. That's why I'm saying it, and that's why we're asking the HSS to make one real risk assessment in view of the threatening climate change since the Ministry of Finance is only 20 million kuna for compensation from elemental disasters even though we've asked it to be much more but here, there's no hearing, but then let's increase and stock up on those goods that are most needed because we know when a man's house is flooded, when he's gone, that when you come in, it's not enough to come in and say we're, you're not alone, but you should give him the first supplies that he's gone to survive, to get dressed, to take care of his children, etc. And it certainly needs to be considered how to run the stock, so that goods from stock stores like Đakovština and other companies do not disappear, because this is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and should certainly be considered to encourage domestic production and protection of our craftsmen and entrepreneurs through goods supply and supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130230	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130231	Dear colleague Vlaović, you have used one word or asked who was responsible for the disappearance of grain from the commodity reserves, but I think you mentioned one language unknown, because the word responsibility in Croatia is not very existential, and the other is so that our investigative authorities can launch responsibility or procedures when the perpetrator is not registered or many perpetrators are recorded, if you remember the guilty sparrows. So how can you process sparrows and invite them to be responsible for taking that grain out of these stock reserves from the Đakova silos? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130232	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130233	Thank you, colleague Hrelja, with the sparrows were both pigeons and a large number of pigeons possible that they ate that amount of wheat and ate it, because like in that joke because when the pepper disappeared and said the mice ate it, they eat it and they cry. So there's no one crying, but we have to cry because obviously we've given the lamb to the wolf for management because that was the situation of the disappearance of that wheat in Đakovština, and I know that there have been other companies that have embezzled certain quantities of goods that they had to store for the supply supplies, so I also said it would be good for the secretary of state to present that information against how many companies were brought up to trial and whether anyone was convicted, because that's the only way we can restore trust in the state and the state institutions if someone is responsible for what he did illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130234	The next replica of the respected representative Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130235	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vlaovic, you spoke, so we have the data here in table six of how controversial the claims are and that certain court cases are launched in such situations. I'm talking about 416 million kunas I'd like the secretary of state to say something about it for sure that it's very interesting and that we have to keep future accounts which are companies that are being given stock reserves, because we as states need to know that at some point we have to be able to withdraw them, and not that we're wondering if there are any or no stock reserves at that point. As far as market regulation is concerned, I'm talking again, and I am talking about it, I think that such a method would be good in certain situations, that in the case of major market oscillations, no one is telling us that we can't intervene right now, I don't know 10,000 tons or 50,000 tons of wheat or 5,000 pigs right now when it suits us or at some point fire them when it suits us as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130236	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130237	Thank you very much, colleague Križanić, I agree with you that we must first of all make sure that our population has a good supply of agricultural food products and if any disturbance occurs on the market that the state must then react from the stocks. We see that, at least that's how the secretary of state said that it is mostly obtained from domestic suppliers, I hope so, but I'm afraid it's not because we don't have enough in the production of most agricultural and food products, in pigs, we're about 40% even say some up to 30% and sure that, we had examples 10 years ago that an intervention purchase of pigs was done precisely because the market was overcrowded with imports and other problems, there were too many throats in traffic, simply peasants couldn't sell and thus saved production and helped our producers. I see no reason not to do so in the future, because no one can forbid us to guard our market, that's what the French do with their milkmen, because we had an example when they were protesting and spilling Milk. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130238	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Rechim Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130239	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary, state secretary with associate, colleague and colleague, I have listened carefully to all the debates so far, something little more than others I know about state goods supplies and would like to highlight the following. Unfortunately, it was a time when state stock was market regulators or social peace was bought through state supplies. When we paid wheat kuna and 20 in ransom everything available to, in production, from production, and stock prices were 60, 70 limes, that time had passed. Therefore, state supply must not and cannot be made by Croatia's entry into the EU market regulator. However, I agree with my colleagues in the debate so far about the structure of the state supply. There we can open a wide debate, the state supply programme brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia depending on the resources available. What we see from the report, I fully support it, it's correct, it's content, it's complete. The total operations related to deficits, financial claims from the beginning to the end of 2017, for 2018, could not even be completed because the Directorate for State Stocks works by accounting standards like any other company, so to speak. It has as much resources as it provides from its own business or as much as it is provided in the state budget. As far as the structure is concerned, I think all the colleagues who have spoken here are absolutely right that we need to be fat in the procurement program to see what these are strategic stockpiles. On the one hand, food products for the case, for the same case as strategic goods stocks in fire trucks, water tanks, pumps, etc., etc. It's all about climate change, fire, flood, earthquake, etc. Let's remind you, if you remember in the Old Testament of St. Joseph of the Old Testament by Pharaoh, the Commissioner, in the case of precisely elementary disasters, created from Egypt by force, organising the storage of grain during those 7 hungry years, the whole world, then civilization came and paid in gold, so that is the beginning of these stock stocks. So, in any case, an elemental accident that you can't even predict at such an extent anymore because the climate has changed or changed terribly, should really be a big, strategic thought-out and providing funds for their structure. In the Republic of Croatia is a fire, flood, the elements of climate change are fundamentally, and there should actually be through strategic stock supplies to provide not only a sufficient number of fire trucks, plumbers, but also what my colleague Vlaovic was saying, but also other equipment when raised, what to say to the brigade of citizens, civil protection that does not actually have the means to equip them for successful defending against fires and successfully defending against floods. What I am from the very report that is correct in my opinion, I think that I should especially stress the need to give on the use of fire trucks and other devices to DVDs because these professional fire departments, let's say, are quite well equipped, should get more aggregates, more large pumps, high capacity pumps in the event of floods because this is all expensive when you look at the value and the structure is defacto relative to the volume of climate change, floods, etc., it's all very expensive. As for the rest, I have to say, not to defend the state stock, I said that they operate according to accounting standards as if wholesales in the end line, under quotes normally, are carried out inventory every year by inventory commissions, and normally to take all measures starting with forced collection, ensuring the collection of claims by certain guarantees until criminal or criminal charges are filed, and then it's a normal matter of judicial authority. That's where I have to say that I'm not satisfied, that's slow, and that's why we're going to happen to have relapses that we don't need. So, I agree with my colleagues that, in order for the government of the Republic of Croatia to have state goods supplies, and I believe that they are listening to this debate too, we should change the structure of the strategic stock, provide greater funds for the purchase of equipment related to climate change. As for me personally, I will support this report in 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130240	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130241	Thank you very much, Mr. Varda, in your discussion you mentioned stock reserves, you analyzed the situation and what I am interested in, and probably other representatives in HS, were you in the 2016 elections when you were elected to the list where I was first on the list, were you at that time a reserve of colleagues Bandic and HDZ who only needed to be activated like a water or a tanker pump or were you just later? Here, that's what I'm interested in, thank you very much. [[Employer: A colleague of Maras]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130242	We have a topic that we're discussing, you make some personal frustrations and topics for the third or fourth time today, it's not right, please don't do that. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130243	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I don't usually get into replicas, and especially not frustrated MPs, so I suggest they go to the City of Zagreb City Assembly elections, so let them check their views there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130244	My colleague Maras raised his hand. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130245	He's been injured. 238, my colleague Varda insulted me, I just asked if he was a reserve, and I went to the polls, my colleague Varda got 13500 votes, you got a few hundred votes, so one 60 times less than me, and right after the election, you cheated on those few hundred voters and all those who voted for the list we were on, and I'm not just frustrated with that, so they're frustrated citizens of the Republic, and most of all, Zagreb and Zagreb. Yeah, yeah, he's hurt. [[Well, that's certainly not...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130246	It's certainly not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure again, I'm warning you about that. My colleague, please don't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure that I don't have to warn you too. Next, the replica of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130247	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, you mentioned these pumps and in general all non-food supplies, and I'm actually interested here that now in the final name of the promoter if you can tell us really exactly how many times these pumps have been used, let's know for the tanks that almost everything has been used and all the other combinations and everything that's listed, what we're saying here is that maybe there should be more. I'd like to have that information whether it's ever been used, whether there are any unused ones, if there was ever all five at one time, then we can talk about what we need more than non-food supplies is like us, to us it seems 5 small, and maybe in the end none of these pumps have been used, maybe they're all and maybe they're really right to increase it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130248	The answer of the esteemed attorney, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130249	Dear fellow, I think that in my debate I was very clear, I should, what you said, it's for analysis, but in any case climate application you can't, you can't all kind of climate change predicted in advance, you have to predict something in a great time period. So, the fact is, we've shown we need fire trucks, we need big pumps, we need boats, we need these other fire and flood prevention equipment, and that's that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130250	And finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, a respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130251	Thank you, Vice President... colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Very briefly, the HNS Club will, of course, base and this debate that we had accepted, I would really just, we've heard a lot of that stuff, even some constructive proposals, I don't think it would be worse to do at the time, it's a well-intentioned proposal, in the next report for last year, that it really says in the last five years how many hours or how many hours, units and everything, that we have it in materials then probably half of these or a large majority of these criticisms, let's say or concerns, perhaps not, would not be discussed. Indeed, out of 400 and something, 400 as many as 26 million kn, surely 30 million kn of food products and 10 million kn of non-food products can be found something that needs to be found. What I would like to refer certainly to, and it is very good, even on the back of the material, is actually everything and why there are significant commodity stocks and social humanitarian roles, and above all, that it contributes to the defence action, more effective action of the protection and rescue system, and there it would, and my colleague Makar mentioned and warned me, and would like to say that in all countries the exact amount and distribution of goods is a secret because, imagine that one Germany, France, America says, we have so much and so much there, there, there, here and there. What do you think would be the target of some possible or potential threat to possible terrorist attacks? So it's not good that everything is publicized, it's important that those who need to know, know, that the most important thing is that these supplies work and that in the shortest possible unit of time they are where they need to be most help. Of course, by the priority of saving people, animals, property, etc., as it already goes, that's how it's structuredly divided. So, I think we absolutely need stock supplies like that, which I've already said, evil shouldn't and God forbid we ever have to use something, but the worst thing is that we need something and we don't have one. And then we come, when you bring in such a way as threats and lives and assets, then it's really a much bigger problem than if we have 5 or 7 pumps or so, if we never used them, and I certainly wouldn't like to see it, we can at the level and the Committee at national security exactly some assumptions, the action of the threats that we've had, as appropriate in which time the unit can be deployed and on the basis of that analysis make a quality decision, as I believe they are also structured, and now we can say here by heart that something seems to us a little or a lot, but I believe that there's a lot of account in the competent service that they need. Once again, the HNS Club will support this report, and, of course, all efforts to have really goods supplies that can be, evil should not be used in every part of Croatia and every disaster they encounter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130252	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj has raised his hand, I think he wants a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130254	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club to consult because the stock reserves are a very important topic. Stock reserves are very important, especially in crisis situations and the state should be able to intervene and help. However, when we talk about stock reserves, then the greatest potential with stock reserves is certainly human. The man is the one who will go to war, the man is the one who will be on the border, and the man is the one who will put out the fire, and it is very important to have those stock reserves. But what's going on is this man who puts out the fires, who died, who burned alive, has been terrorized by the state for 12 years. That's a man. What kind of message is that to future soldiers, cops, firemen? And even one fire department, Tisno, seems to me, says we'll sell everything, but we'll pay our man back. I would ask everyone, our fellow MPs, to intervene as much as we can, that Frane Lucic, the only man who survived, who burned alive, 12 of his colleagues burned down by the fire, to make it worth his while, and to keep on living normally, and that the man who was saying all along that he was sorry that he survived because of this state behavior. The state strengthens the muscles of the man Frani Lucic who burned alive and barely remained a message to future firefighters, police officers, soldiers? I would ask the state and all its institutions to finally correct this huge injustice and for the sake of Frana Lucic himself as a victim, as well as all future ones. officers, soldiers and service who [[Intruder: Thank you.]] will protect you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130255	Of course I'll give you a break and see you at 11.02. [[It's 10.52 o'clock.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] My colleagues and colleagues have expired, so now on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, I will finally speak to Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130257	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Stock reserves are very important and goods reserves, mainly in crisis situations, when there are elements and other threats and it has been in recent years, and I hope it will not be, however, the stock reserves are a very important topic and a serious topic, but again, as I have asked for a break, I will point to one problem and now I have talked again, pointing out not to the problem, but to the essence of the parliamentary representatives and all of us who have the ability to make decisions at any level, in the center there must be a man. And a message to the younger ones to deal with a job that's in the interest of protecting society. It is unclear to me, which is why the state is here and the president of the fire community is not present, but here is our fellow parliamentary representative, Ante Sanader, which is why the state refers in this way to the only surviving firefighter from the greatest tragedy in history, in Croatia, where 12 firefighters were burned and killed, and the one who burned survived. We have to send a message, so I can tell my son, you to your children, be firefighters, be cops, be soldiers, it's a service, it's in the interest of the people. This way, as the state strengthens the muscles, according to Frana Lucic, is a terrible bad message, a terrible bad message, to the man who burned alive and the only one left. That's why I talked to... To colleagues from different clubs, I think this Parliament should do everything possible to end this state terror and this judicial tape towards Frani Lucic and to pay off what was necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There shouldn't have been a legal fight this many years, and now that he's got the verdict, the state complains and the man says he's sorry he's alive. It's terrible, it's the worst message, what can happen to people who do the most honorable jobs. In talks with colleagues, there was a colleague of Hrelja, they were from HSS and other clubs, so that it would be, I would send you all a petition or a request that we solidarity, all parliamentary representatives, regardless of right, left, in power, opposition, is signed, with the requirement to finally correct part of this injustice towards Frani Lucić, first of all as a man, because we are here primarily for man, and also as a message to everyone, who in the future, in crisis situations, will put out fires, prevent floods and other threats, that they will have treatment where they threaten their lives, that they will have a tragic treatment in case something happens to them, don't let God happen to them, because in this way, the state is losing its meaning. I'll tell all the clubs, today I'll do it, over the next week we'll pick it up right away, because there aren't enough colleagues now, and hopefully we'll all stand uniquely to correct this injustice against Frani Lucic, I expect, and I believe you all will be unique, and that we will sign this request to the highest institutions, by the President of the Parliament, by the Prime Minister and of course, the President of the Republic of Croatia, to stop these complaints immediately, these 12-year-old tapes, and finally tell everyone who will be on the border, who will be in the future, when it's threatened or elemental accidents, when it's threatened, socially well, people who will put out the fires, who will be on the border, who will be in the police, that it's honorablely working for the social community. We solve these problems, stop terror against the individual who did his job and risked his life to protect our public well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130258	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Proposer on the subject, i.e. the point we are discussing, the Honorable Secretary of State Mario Antonic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130259	Honorable chairman, esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here in the final word in a few sentences I will highlight what is important, referring to some constructive but also some other criticisms in the debates, I would like to point out in particular that it is working here in the 2017 report and the quantities of goods obtained during that year, and do not in any way reflect the full state and structure of the entire stock. If we refer only to some very important and let's say attractive items that are used, that is, in the structure of the supply supply, are used primarily in the field, I'm talking about equipment, primarily firearms, we have 59 vehicles in the stock structure, and in this year we're going to get another 12. We also get tents, boats, flood dams, high flow pumps, then immersion pumps, so we have in the structure 98 high flow pumps and 188 submerged pumps. All this equipment, I stress it on the ground, on use, either with the local self-government unit, fire companies or the Red Cross Rescue Service and other organisations and associations. Referring to the adequateness of the control of the supply situation, I would like to stress that regular and extraordinary and annual inventory is being carried out regularly in cooperation with the inspectorate, in the future it will be with the State Inspectorate. As regards the very planning of the supply of goods, the plan adapts from year to year to the requirements and needs of the field, it is carried out by professional services with the approval of such professional services within the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, with the consent and approval of the Minister but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What you need to stress is that it is necessary to invest more particularly in equipment that protects and rescue services but must be clear to you that resources are limited to how natural, in general in the world so are our economic resources of this country. In order for resources to be greater and stronger, we need, above all, a strong and competitive economy that will generate high added value and generate surplus revenue in the budget that can then be used, among other things, to strengthen supply supplies for the protection and rescue of all of us in the Republic and, if necessary, other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130260	We have a replica of Honorable Agent Ivan Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130261	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The supply of goods is managed by the government. Once a year, the Government reports to the Croatian Parliament on the state and management of the stock reserves, Tell us, because we listen to opposition criticism, are the stock reserves in a state of satisfactory or prescribed filling?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130262	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130263	They may, with full responsibility, claim that the state of supply is in accordance with all the documents and regulations and regulations adopted by this State and implemented by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130264	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130265	Report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2017 with financial indicators. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the situation and management of the stock for 2017 with financial indicators is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 94 for, 5 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130266	We now move to the following point, which is: - The report on the work of the Committee on European Affairs for the period from 28 October 2016 to 31 December 2017 is submitted to the Committee on European Affairs on the basis of Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the president of the European Affairs Committee, the respected Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130267	... My colleagues and colleagues, here on behalf of the Committee on European Affairs, I will try not to report too long. [[Specially enabled.]] It covers the period from 28 October 2016 to the end of 2017, the European Affairs Committee was established by entering the EU in order to exercise Parliament's powers in European affairs in accordance with the usual parliamentary practice in the Member States. The powers and part-time work of the Committee are laid down by the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs and shall be laid down by the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure. The Committee on European Affairs is the largest working body, has a president, two vice presidents, 14 members of which two vice presidents, one from the ruling, the other from the opposition. There are also 6 members appointed from the order of public scientific and professional staff. Since the constitution of the 9th Assembly, by the end of 2017, we held a total of 23 sessions of which were 5 thematic sessions and 2 sessions called for by the initiative of 1/3 of the board members. At these sessions, the Committee discussed public health and food safety in the Union, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the EU and the Member States, the EU's 2017 report on Croatia with detailed examinations on preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances, the EU's common trade policy and on 5 scenarios for the future of the EU. The Committee has also drawn conclusions from these five scenarios for the future of the EU, which have been submitted to the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Chairman of the Council in the framework of the political round. In its conclusions, the Committee advocated the equality of Member States and opposed Europe's idea of more speed. We also called for the retention of the enlargement policy, among the EU's priority policies. Most generally speaking, the implementation of European affairs involves the activities of the Assembly arising from Croatia's membership in the EU. Depending on whether the Committee on European Affairs acts directly to the European Commission and other Union institutions or to the Government, which then participates in the decision-making of European institutions, the performance of European affairs can be divided directly and indirectly. The special implementation of European affairs concerns the procedures through which the Council oversees the government's activities in European institutions and is primarily about considering the position of the Republic of Croatia on EU documents as well as national positions for EU Council meetings. On the basis of the work programme for the discussion of the position of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, the Committee discussed and concluded a total of 38 positions of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the home working bodies of our Parliament. The Committee also held 4 meetings to discuss meetings of the Council of the EU, and the Croatian positions for all Council meetings were regularly delivered and continued to be delivered to the home working bodies as well as to all members of the Committee on European Affairs. The direct implementation of European affairs concerns direct communication between the Parliament and the EU institutions themselves. In the framework of the political dialogue, the Committee on European Affairs has already referred the conclusions on the White Paper on the future of Europe to the European institutions. All working bodies and all of our representatives can be involved in political dialogue and 2017. The Committee on Health and Social Policy referred one opinion to the European Commission on the Directive on the protection of workers from risk due to exposure to carcinogenic or mutagenic substances at work. Other forms of direct cooperation with the European institutions are worth stating that the EU Affairs Committee also held meetings with the working bodies of the European Commission's individual resolutions during 2017 with a total of 7 members of the European Commission, including the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini. As far as international cooperation is concerned, the EU Affairs Committee is a member of KOZAK. KOZAK is a conference of the Union's Affairs Committee of the EU Member States and the Committee delegations took part in all the meetings held during the reporting period. KOZAK meets 4x a year twice in each of the presidential states. Once in the form of a meeting of the Committee presidents and once in a plenary meeting. During the upcoming Croatian presidency of the EU Council, the EU Affairs Committee will also host these two KOZAK meetings. In addition to this multilateral format, the Committee was also active in bilateral activities. Our committee's delegation was in April 2017 for an official visit to Montenegro, in November of the same year to visit Turkey. Bilateral cooperation with the complementary committees of national parliaments continued beyond 2017. And I stress this when it comes to the importance of this form of cooperation and achieving bilateral contacts not only with EU Member States. Of the other activities as you know in the last few years, the Union has faced a series of challenges such as Brexit, the migrant crisis and the adoption of a new multiannual financial framework. The EU Affairs Committee actively participates in discussions on these topics and participates in the formation and representation of Croatian views. We are particularly committed to maintaining the level of funding for cohesion and common agricultural policy in the next multi-annual financial framework, whose final adoption could mark the Croatian presidency of the EU Council in the first half of 2000. I must stress here that it is quite an interesting approach not to say completely unacceptable that, in this 7-year following framework, it is planning to increase funds for, say, Africa and reduce cohesion funds in Member States less developed within the EU. We are also in favour of continuing the EU's enlargement to the Southeast European countries, in particular to continue BiH's European path, as well as ensuring respect for the real consistency of Croats in BiH. I also personally advocate raising awareness at Union level of the key importance of internal migration for EU stability. I believe that, in fact, internal migration may be a greater challenge for stability not only of the Union but also of many Member States, particularly of those who lose their population, and not only at this demographic social level but also at political and economic level. Finally, for the quality of work of the EU Affairs Committee, cooperation with other working bodies in the Assembly is particularly important and thanks to all colleagues who regularly engage in EU affairs and join the activities organised by the EU Affairs Committee. I also want to thank our secretary Jelena Špiljak and all other colleagues without whom the work of the board, the quality work of the board and my personal work would be much, much more difficult. The most important task for the committee in the coming period is to participate in the implementation of the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency of the EU Council in the first half of 2020 and in the host meetings already mentioned by KOZAK. I am sure the EU Affairs Committee will contribute to the success of the Croatian Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130268	Thank you very much. We will now first welcome the disciples and the disciples XIII. High school from Zagreb, which follows us from the gallery. And the replica will be given to your presentation by the esteemed representative Curaj. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130269	Thank you. Very briefly, I'd just like to re-absorbed that it's good and important that we have reports like this. Unfortunately, and there is also a good point, the reasons why we are now speaking from the end of 2016 and throughout 2017 with two choices for this Parliament, the establishment of strong committees,... Members and we know we only did it last year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's a little bit of a problem because now we're looking a little bit too backwards. But I would end up with what you have said to this committee, and we all face the great challenge of the EU presidency, and I think as well as the parent board will have one great task here, and precisely because of all the representatives here, well to be addressed and that we know because it is a great opportunity that you know that every six months it is rotating, and then you can count on when we will get in the next opportunity to have, impose on the subject and certainly work on an external political field or internal European something that is important to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130270	Dear Representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130271	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Curai. So I will just say that I think that it is very, very important, regardless of the different attitudes not only in the Union itself but also in the topics concerned by the Union or the Member States, that all this is discussed in the Croatian Parliament, not just on the Committee on EU Affairs and that these different attitudes are heard and, of course, as far as possible, with as many arguments. Therefore, it is necessary to respect and invite colleagues to the debate but it is mostly necessary to stick to the arguments. What I kind of like to point out is that, with all due respect to those different views with whom I have spoken especially on this Eurosceptic part when you look at all the biggest challenges that stand before all of us and the EU, you want them to be migrant, security, technological and economical, I think that each and the richest Member States with these challenges will still be able to cope more easily within the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130272	Thank you. And there is also a replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130273	Thank you very much. Mr Milosevic, here we had yesterday and Jour's lady was, the EU Justice Commissioner. The fact is that yesterday, at one point, she said that she was going to abolish and reduce cohesion funds, and these are the funds for the settlement, and that's the biggest damage to the Republic of Croatia, and that's one terrible message where we're not going to have, not just as we are now, but worse, we're not going to have a competitive and on the market for our economies or agriculture. It's a terrible work, one disaster for the Republic of Croatia, we won't be competitive in anything. This should be resisted strongly because they want to finance projects from the EU budget, she said, because Croatia has absolutely no economy, no agriculture, absolutely no chance with developed countries and we need to stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130274	Thank you. The response of the respected representative, Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130275	Thanks, buddy Bull. At first, I would disagree if Croatia had no chance at all. I don't agree with that. We do not agree, and therefore no one discusses the abolition of cohesion funds but the reduction. I also said in the opening debate, it is totally unacceptable to consider seriously, to reduce cohesion policy in savings, according to all net recipients, Member States, and to raise money sent to Africa. So there's no dilemma about it. And also, I often talk very often about these internal migrations, which is why, given the outflows of young people from some Member States and also from Croatia, we think it is important to maintain the level of cohesion policy and convergence, speed up rather than slow down convergence. It is precisely because if we are to seriously discuss the stability of the EU, then I guess this stability rests, on the stability of each Member State and on our countries. And our country, and when you look at society economically and demographically, I think European funds and this cohesion policy can only contribute to the efforts of our governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130276	Thank you. I will now open the debate and the first representative of the HDZ Club will speak on behalf of the Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The President of the Committee on European Affairs has already detailed the work of the Committee during this period from 28 October 2016 to 31 December 2017, explaining in detail all the functions and reported on the work carried out during that period. So I will not repeat myself here, but I think it is a good opportunity to open up some topics in general on the debate on European affairs, on the European topics here in the Croatian Parliament and in the context of that, then of course the role of the Committee on European Affairs. As some may remember in the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, the Law on the relations of the Government and the Croatian Parliament, which regulates how European affairs will be treated, was also passed. There were also some amendments, the opposition at the time, I then proposed certain amendments, they were rejected, but some of them, at least in that context, entered into that law, which today is not valid and therefore this report was also submitted, of course, by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, there were different models, e.g. In Sweden, we have a Committee on European Affairs, which plays a very important role, almost without the government being able to present anything in the EU, without having previously received the consent of the Committee on European Politics or Europeanay issues. Some other countries have such a system, it is of course very transparent, but it also requires a high level of organisation, so that it can act effectively in European institutions and seek a high level of dialogue within political parties, to quickly reach certain arrangements. Most EU countries therefore do not have such a model, you have the other extreme. So, in some Member States, where the Committee on European Affairs and the general parliament is in the post-fastum, therefore, when everything has already happened only possibly informed, but there is almost no impact on the formulation of policies, views, views, Member States before they agree at EU level. Croatia has found this one environment, let's say the spirit of our law and in the far line and then the framework in which this working body works, so the Committee on European Affairs in the Croatian Parliament. So, once the programme of work of a particular presidency is reviewed, then it determines which positions the Parliament will want to monitor in a specific way, so that the representatives of the executive authority, must come before the committee, and the committee must then agree. And this is what the chairman of the board explained and you can read in the report, which were views, how and how the Croatian Parliament then participated in the formation of the position of the Republic of Croatia, before those positions were presented, agreed eventually and achieved at European level. So somewhere between these two models, one where you have a very important role of the Committee on European Politics in some Member States and one where there is almost no weight in Croatia, we have found one model that meets probably our needs, at least at this time, where there is a certain level of Parliament's supervision of the work of the executive government, and yet to be done in an effective manner and today's representatives in European institutions, can have from the capital of instruction and views on how to act. Can that be improved? This ruling majority, it didn't go to change the law, but it did bring in a certain newspaper in the bang. Therefore, under the law it is not necessary for the Prime Minister to inform the Croatian Parliament of the course of the meeting of the European Council, whenever it is held, but is enough to do so once a year. However, it has been introduced in practice that every time after the European Council we have a debate here at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, in this at least part of this report I was also a minister, coming to committee meetings when security issues were then it was also the Committee on Foreign Policy and had to report in this way what the plans were, what the Government wants to do and to get, of course, the support and consent of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the committee responsible. I repeat, this was not always necessary under the current legal framework, however, it was a political will and decision to do the job and European affairs more transparently towards both the Croatian public and the greater role of the Croatian Parliament in overseeing the work of the Government in this way. I would say that the experience and in the work of the Committee on European Affairs now suggests that there are much more content and constructive discussions within the board than at the plenary session. I think a lot of people will agree, which doesn't mean we don't have to continue to have this practice debate at the plenary session. However, it seems to me that for both our public and Croatian citizens, it would be good for those who are very active and at these debates at plenary sessions and the idea to eventually try to install at the moment when the positions of the Republic of Croatia are defined, which is working on committees, so in this case, the Committee on European Affairs. So they really do have an impact on the position of the Republic of Croatia, but often such representatives who are very loud in plenary sessions when to work, specifically propose and define some views on the Committee do not have. Which does not mean that these discussions at the level of the board really are sometimes very constructive and high-quality, of course they can always be discussed and found ways to improve that too. But I think that the framework within the board shows that certain quality solutions can also be reached. But it might be good to find ways here, especially during our chairmanship and the experience that will remain for us after the 2020 presidency to strengthen that professional basis. If I can add here a certain experience of working in another Parliament, in the European Parliament, the quality and the basis, and not because our professional services do not have quality persons but simply the amount of what they are coming for, the way you should approach is, of course, looking for certain human resources and certain capacities that at this point seem to me our Croatian Parliament does not have the same extent. And there can be seen possibly one way to improve. Why? Because this parliamentary oversight of the work of the Croatian government without a good professional background simply remains exclusively on some surface. It is good of course to have representatives who will discuss politically, it is their duty, which is why Croatian citizens have chosen us. But this does not mean that the articulation of political views does not have to be based on certain expertise in a particular topic. And that's why it takes the same and sometimes a better base. So that's one kind of work or one form, one dimension that I think is certainly in this segment of space to further improve our work, and always with the goal of making this surveillance more quality and then getting better solutions and making better use of our EU membership. In any case, this report describes in detail what the committee is doing, what it has done, which all activities have been carried out and the HDZ club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130278	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130279	My colleague Stier spoke about the relationship between the board and the government, the executive authorities, and I think that much more should be discussed, the problems in the EU that the Republic of Croatia has and that the Committee has this significant role. Personally, as a parliamentary representative from the club MOST independent lists, I am particularly disappointed that Croatia is one of five countries that has no seat, no agency, EU headquarters, it is of 5 countries with Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus, which means that Croatia has not fought within the EU and simply that committee should work on it, it is necessary to force the executive authority, it should also be called in Croatia if we are members of the European, equal EU which is why, honourable President Milosevic, if you can concentrate, is the only one in 5 countries that has no EU agency headquarters. It means Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus. It just says what the relationship between our politicians that should be fought through the executive power and the European Parliament is not to be in the Republic of Croatia, as I said yesterday, to be a full member, but if we are calling rather than a colony. The committee has done what it has done, you have given, distinguished fellow Milosevic your report and surely the executive authority should have as much communication as possible from the main resolution ministry with you, as chairman of the committee and committee members and parliamentary representatives on all matters relevant to Croatia within the EU or within the EU. I was yesterday, I overheard it from the media, that it would be a reduction and a little shut down of cohesion funds or balancing funds. That's where Croatia will stay, I'll do it again, not only will it be uncompetitive but it will be wronged against the Republic of Croatia, we know that after paying the EU funds at the bottom, and by shutting down cohesion funds slightly or by reducing it, as it is said, that we will be helping to transfer some of the funds to Africa because of the migrant crisis. So, we don't have any around these migrant crises, except we're going to get less funding through cohesion funds, that's what we need to be, and we need to talk about it loudly and clearly and against it, and I objected to the committee where she was a Commissioner yesterday because we have to make it clear that two thirds of Croatia is empty, that even development simply doesn't exist, that we have too many undeveloped areas, two thirds of Croatia are empty, and that the economic potentials were mainly on the development of agriculture. We, too, have been in agriculture since we joined the EU. Whether it's just a mistake of Croatian politics, Croatian agencies, which I don't know, or the Ministry of Regional Development, but the fact is that the figures say that we had 64 thousand OPGs that were involved in the production of milk, and now we have about 4 thousand. To import 70% of the milk, if not more now, and while we have built farms that have been modernised, which have been, that we have empty, people have moved away. What does that mean? That cohesion funds, if Croatia becomes like other strong candidate countries, for projects from the EU budget, simply we will not have a chance or a very small chance. If we can't come from cohesion funds, if we're at the bottom of the withdrawal of funds, then how are we going to be if we have equal competitions with Germany, with the French economy, agriculture or I don't know, or infrastructure projects, so, we have very few chances, we are now, fighting for the last place with Malta after the withdrawal of EU funds. All those stories, signed contracts for EU funds, are signed. And as much as the funds have been withdrawn, that would be, we know that's a few percent. And we need to talk about a problem that I've highlighted to the prime minister, he didn't want to answer or answer, and that's the issue of teleopers that have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia, and we're on the fixed internet at the bottom. All research, in the EU, and in Europe. I don't know why it is, which is why the prime minister is afraid to answer this question publicly, which is why teleopers are not acting the same way as in countries where they come from or in other EU countries. So the profit of HT, which in Deutsche Telekom group is 42% margin, and the average in the EU and in Europe, means even outside the EU, is 20% and even less in some countries. They don't pay us the right of service or the right to travel, that's what we've been looking for, we've been asking for amendments because they haven't been solved as ownership books, and we've made a solution for teleopers to pay real estate managers. It went through, here's the consultation, overnight the prime minister met with the director, director and director of HT, and it was erased. And that amendment they gave me on behalf of the Most Club, it's not accepted. That's why the profit is for the base stations and the antenna pillars. They don't need a building permit. In all EU countries, not only the EU, but Europe, Serbia, the CG needs a building permit. They don't even need consent in us. They put them wherever they come up with them. That's what I'm talking about, and I gave the procedure law to have a building permit, just like in Austria, same as in Germany where they come from, same as in Sweden. No more or less. And of course in the media they once made a statement, all the teleopers, when I mentioned this, stop Bulja, bring us back to the Stone Age. I'm just asking it to be the same as in Germany. To be exactly the same conditions, not to get the profit out, it does not invest in Croatia, but HT invests in Montenegro. And the worst fixed phone, that's why they're working this base station network to control the entire system. It's national security first. And he's got optical cable, digital network, ma, but it's supposed to be built by the Republic of Croatia. No foreign company at all. It should be the infrastructure owned by the Republic of Croatia, so it's national security. But no, it can't do that in Croatia. I can't possibly get an answer from the Prime Minister's esteemed president. I ask him through the parliamentary question, why are teleopers not acting in the Republic of Croatia for all these reasons as they behave in the country where other EU countries come from? So are we a colony? We have, are we a member of the EU equal? So do we have the right to ask? No less or less, here, exactly as teleopers behave in Germany, let them behave in Croatia. If we're open to the market, a foreign company, irrelevantly, we're not going to go in as was the first privatisation, as the infrastructure was taken over, we're not going to, but act in harmony and invest, let it be invested properly. Not in a way that Croatia is really like a colony, e. That in Serbia which is not in the EU they have these criteria. Yesterday, I also noted the savings of Raiffeisen credit cooperatives that were declared in Austria to be worthless these contracts, their state's attorneys haunting them. In Hungary, labour is banned, but we have passed the law by 134 votes in favour of the two-thirds majority. I think that only the Constitution was passed by a number of votes and now the European Court is saying no, it's illegal, it's illegal, who is protecting these people now and who are complaining, who has objected to the European Court of Justice, A relative who should only judge with what she objected to and that would be talked about, now I don't have a time, and I've had this break and I'm going to talk about it. As far as migration is concerned, Croatia is in this way as it has been so far, we are simply those who export people and labour and import their bad food and import their technology. We gave it to energy, microsolars, the Microsolars Act, to encourage entrepreneurs, because every part of my microsolar, MOST gave that law that stands there in the drawer. Each part can be produced, it should be placed on roofs as much as we invest to encourage foreign wind power plants, renewable sources to foreign owners, that we have invested it in microsolars within 3 years we would have in all microsolars households, have independent families, have an economy because every part of the microsolare can be made, in the Republic we have professional people who leave and do the same things in other countries. We must fight to open jobs here, not to draw money through subsidies such as wind power plants, incentives, foreign owners and not to invest in the Republic of Croatia. I think we have the right to fight and to develop the economy that way. As far as migration is concerned, I also asked the commissioners yesterday that I have a vague view that around Marrakesh, the member states can decide whatever they want about the Marrakech compact. Which means our neighbouring countries did not support the compact and Croatia did. So what are we talking about now? So there is no single position there, Croatia has accepted it by leaving the Minister of the Interior, and all our neighbours have not. So what's our government, what's our government's message, what's she been having talks with, who's she having this conversation with? Is he talking to the neighbors? That should be discussed on the board and discussed here. Also, we have unresolved relations, we need to fight of course for our people in BiH for the Croats, that is our obligation under the Constitution, but we also have a problem with Serbia. Why open the chapters on Serbia's judiciary where jurisdiction remains, why open up the Croatian defenders in the first place? So what are they, little Haag? Where'd they go? Where are the dead? Where's the war damage? And not to bring the President of the Republic here, I must say, the Chetnik Vukic, who hasn't apologized, who hasn't brought any of our missing and he has that and that he's mocking us. And when we joined the EU, we really had to arrest, locate and transfer all the generals, all the documentation from the Homeland War, we should bow down to Slovenia, unresolved border issues with Serbia and other issues. So we must protect the Croatian national interests within this framework. We didn't have the strength to declare an exclusive economic belt but we used to be an eco-fishing belt, it's the same when you go buy a car and you take off the door, the hood, the mirror, and then you buy that car, it's the environmental belt. So they adapted because the great friendship of our prime minister, the former prime minister with Tajani, who is a fascist, who calls for Italian Dalmatia not to be but Croatian, Istria is Croatian, so we have too much courtship. We must be in the EU already, I was skeptical of the EU, I did not vote for EU entry, it was my right to be, but this behaviour of the Croatian state, simply the inflatable authorities, our executive authorities are catastrophic, here also on Bosnia and about foreign companies that have a privileged position in Croatia and do not have one in their own countries, it says that we are their exploitation field, that we are their colony. We, if we are already in that, are a member of the EU. Then we have to have the agency and at least one seat. And not us and Cyprus have any of the agency's headquarters. What's he saying? I am a friend of Junker, Trusco, Merkelica, I listen to her directive, there are pinches in front of the cameras of all, as great friends, Tajani is invited, in the elections of water, called, and he as the President of the European Council calls, the European Parliament, calls, calls, the crowd that Dalmatia is Italian. Is that the EU? Is that a community? He's a fascist, clean. So at the head of an institution, Parliament is a fascist of Tajani. That's where we have to fight hard. So our policy, our political elite, our Croatian, treats the Brussels elite as a servant. There's no partnership, there's no union, except we're friends, we're good, now we're going to be at pre-election meetings reporting live to Tajani, these, those, those, the Sanader-style thing, my friend Shultz... Thank you very much and I call on us to fight for Croatian interests and certainly not Brussels and German, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130280	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Miro Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already heard that we have a legal basis for the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government on European affairs and that is good. And we heard from my colleague Stier that there were thoughts when the law was passed to influence amendments to make him more quality. And I personally think that we could talk about changing this law a little bit, to strengthen the powers of the Committee on European Affairs. I, in my own time and as a member of the Government, announced that I or anyone from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, was ready to come before I went to the Foreign Affairs Council or to the General Affairs Council for a meeting in the Croatian Assembly before the Committee on European Affairs and to explain the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think it is important that this is good and that this strengthens the role of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, strengthens the role of the Croatian Parliament. I also believe that we can take a positive step forward on this agenda to report to the European Council meetings. What we now have is a model based on the voluntary conduct of the government and the Prime Minister, which means that a post-festum is coming to inform the Parliament about what has been discussed. However, we have models in the EU, e.g. and in Germany, before going to a meeting of the European Council in Brussels, to come to the Bundestag and in the form of a statement by the Government to the Bundestag, i.e. The German parliament on what the government, which will be the position of the German government, will hold at the European Council meeting. I think that we could go through dialogue in this direction to make it very, very good and to strengthen the role of the Croatian Parliament and to strengthen the role and Croatian society in EU affairs because we are part of the EU, we have our own voice in the EU and it is important that the public knows what we decide there when we have our Prime Minister at a meeting of the European Council. So that's what I mean is one basic thought, most of all, depends on us for how we organize our political life. It means the question of the efficiency of our institutions, our laws, our constitution. Nothing has been worked out in our Constitution when it comes to how the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government cooperate when it comes to European affairs. In some Constitutions, you have it where it says that the government will take into account the position of Croatian, i.e. Parliament of that state, we do not have it yet but we have the opportunity to change it I think it is very, very important that we work on ourselves and work on Croatian institutions, on Croatian laws. Most of all, it depends on us, and we heard it yesterday and from Commissioner Jour, who is originally from the Czech Republic, the Commissioner for Justice. Why is the Czech Republic, for example, more successful or successful today than many other Middle Eastern European countries? Because obviously the system works or works better than it does elsewhere. So the most depends on us, and that is why I think we should consider on this plan what to do in order to strengthen this relationship between the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament when it comes to European affairs. I'll just have one example of that too I've talked to my colleague Tudjman. Croatian institutions, EU, EU membership, Croatian economy. We do not have any mechanism in the Republic of Croatia that can protect key sectors of the Croatian economy. We don't have any legal basis, no basis in any regulation as far as I know. Germany has this, Germany has changed, the government's foreign investment regulation and more than 10% if one foreign company outside the EU wants to enter the EU, have more than 10% of voting rights, then the German economy ministry can check and prevent that foreign company from entering the relevant segments of the German economy. It means weapons, defenses, media, health care, infrastructure. Do we have that in the Republic of Croatia? We don't. Does anyone defend us to do that? No one's defending us. It is up to us to develop our institutions and to change our laws in a way that makes us as effective as possible. And this will depend on the Croatian future to which extent we will know how to put our interests in formulate and know how to defend our interests within the EU. And I repeat, if you look at purely economic and this statistics, you have countries that are very successful, some are less successful and most of all, on this, means that success, the most depends on those Member States. For example, Italy, 20 years ago, had GDP per capita looking at the purchasing power that was very close to that of Germany, the difference was $1,000, today the difference of $10,000. Why? Because they didn't have a so-called time in Italy. structural reforms. So it's important for us to improve this model, that we now have the last 2.5 years, a higher degree of awareness, that the government is working together more willingly. I believe that we must also legally confirm this, and some things, to strengthen the powers of the Committee on European Affairs, the Croatian Parliament, in general, the role of the Croatian Parliament. And I believe that this is very important for ours, for Croatia's continuation and emancipation within the EU, in order to really defend our positions, defend our interests, we must all have a consensus together, have a discussion, have a debate between the authorities and the opposition, but when it comes to protecting our interests, we must have a consensus on strengthening institutions, improving Croatian laws, Croatian regulations and perhaps the Croatian Constitution on this plan. We won't do anything without it, we won't be able to be more emancipated, and we have to have our own voice, have our own thoughts, no one's defending us, it has to be funded, so there must be instruments. Only Croatia's emancipation as well as the countries in the east that have entered the EU's last, in Eastern Europe, which are more emancipated, provides an honest long-term more effective EU, which could be a global player. This is it, some things we in Croatia can say and we must say the same as the other day Mr... which some yellow vests attacked on the streets of Paris, was attacked by some anti-space expressions, I don't blame them, because everything expensive that happens in France and elsewhere, including Brexit, is the result of making a wrong decision about receiving a refugee, a migrant, without a previous discussion, because we can say to Croatia, as a partner within the EU, having in mind, the Croatian interest, that Croatia be secure, strong, highly developed, and that Croatia is part of an EU which is strong, highly developed, which knows its interests in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And without that dialogue between... and the EU institutions and in particular... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The consensus between the same and the West will not be stable, both strong Croatia and a stable and strong EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130282	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130283	Thank you very much, colleague Kovac, you said something that rarely anyone disagrees with. It means that Croatia should elect its position and set itself in the EU, as a country that has entered and should be respected, which must have all its interests and interests. But the problem is that many people do not see us that way, so they can see from their statements and behaviours, that they do not respect us, but consider us citizens of the second order in the EU, which is one example of your colleague Antonio Tajani, who gave a reviewist court, attitude towards Croatia, which should be strongly condemned, and I am sorry that HDZ did not ask that Tajani withdraw from the European Parliament's post, because when he came to you in the campaign in Croatia, he praised Andrej Plenkovic, then you used him, and now you do not condemn what he says.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130284	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Tajani is a member... The Italian member of the European People's Party, however, when it comes to his statements about what he said about the alleged Italian Istria, the Italian Dalmatia, you noticed that we were on this plan to resolve, including my smallness and I am glad that we achieved a large consensus in Croatia between the authorities and the opposition on this plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These things are unacceptable, we sent a clear message, I personally said I was looking for a reaction from the Italian authorities, which is even more important to me. We have also seen that the President of Italy, Motarela, in a letter that went towards both the President of Slovenia and the President of the Republic of Croatia has distanced himself from Mr Tajani's unacceptable auditist views.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130286	The next replica is the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130287	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovac, you have said here that the most depends on us, i.e. the relationship towards the EU and the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament, which is true, however, this relationship should be defined, what is generally said, national interests, however, should be said very precisely, what are the interests, which are the objectives, which are strategic plans and so on, building relations within the EU and with the EU. What needs to be understood, and I think it is not clear enough for some here in the Croatian Parliament, that being part of the EU does not mean being 100% matched with the EU but having differences that are simply the individual differences of each member. If we were to ask the question now, how many of us here in the Parliament know what these strategic goals are, what are strategic programs, doubts that we would succeed here, by one poll agreeing on what everything needs to be done. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130288	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with counterpart Tudjman that when it comes to the EU, people often think it's something there. The EU is us and the EU Treaty, so the Member States brought it to the Lisbon Treaty. We are political owners of the EU, we have transferred some powers of the joint institution, you are right, but... reality in the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are not a large country, we are not a small member of the EU, but we can influence certain processes with our views, I will only give an example of this example of the North Stream 2 pipeline, where there has been one, there will still be one regulation that will not go so far in favour of the partners in Germany because the countries in Central Europe have rebelled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130290	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130291	Thank you, Vice-President, you also mentioned structural reforms, one of the reasons why we have become a full member of the EU of our economy, especially our entrepreneurs are not competitive enough and that is why we have not implemented structural reforms, and we need to be aware of that. So whoever thinks, whatever the fact is, is one, which is that only the Croatian private sector, so entrepreneurs of all sectors and sizes are those who create additional value and which in some ways produce the possibility to share and redistribute both social and any other aid within the state. What is particularly bothering today, given our incompetence within the EU, is the job shortage position so today, the Croatian entrepreneur and we will have to pay attention to this high home, so we are missing out in Croatia's workforce.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130292	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130293	Thank you very much, Mr. President, fellow Milosevic, and I agree with you, but the thing is, we were in one, we had one awareness of the imitation of the acceptance of standards that were defined by the older member states, this is one phenomenon that was present in other EU Member States, meaning in Middle Eastern Europe, and we are only learning to do so again or re-create the ability to define our interests and defend our interests. It is a difficult process, perhaps, and many are not happy, the old under the quotes of Western Europe, but it is inevitable that Croatia is more efficient on this plan and that it starts to change radically its economic structures if we want to be competitive in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130294	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130295	Thank you, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, but if we are really full partners, it is up to us, as Mr. Bulj said in his presentation, that we are one with 4 more European countries that do not have a European Agency, but we have applied ourselves to the medicines agency, we have experienced a debacle and fiasco, after which no one has responded, no one has said that it is missing.../incomprehensible/... and I think it depends on us mainly being badly positioned, valorizing our geostrategic position, mainly in terms of traffic and energy routes, a little story about the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor, connecting Europe with Asia with the shortest way, and not very competitive in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130296	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130297	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleague Pranjiæ and I also agree with you, I think it is very important that the next year when Croatia is chaired by the EU, to throw out one topic that will be important and important for Croatia for the EU, which can be precisely this traffic connection between South Europe and Western Europe, so this could also be the Adriatic-Ionian highway even roads within the EU, means one topic which, this connection within the EU. And I am also convinced that it would be very important for our society and for our economy, but also for the EU's acceptability to finally get one EU agency on the ground of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130298	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of yours has offered me a line. Strengthening institutions. And when we talk about this strengthening of institutions and connect this high home to this, then there is no way they can take the impression, and it has been in recent days that very often unargumentedly, they are hitting the mud on these institutions that we wake up to be honest on their own and represent the Republic of Croatia. Now watch if we insult them here how they will be treated. One example, the other day, the State Statistics Institute submitted an annual report on statistical research and look, one institution which is the basis and for which the participation of the European Funds will be in the financing of individual projects on the publication of the macro-economic indicators carried out by EUROSTAT, its leader here in the higher home cannot submit this report but must be done by a representative of the Ministry of Finance. So if we treat these institutions like that Then how can we expect someone else to give them strength and importance? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130300	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130301	And I agree with you, thank you very much to the President, and I agree with you, and I repeat my thesis, mostly on us, on the development of our institutions, on the efficiency of our institutions in various areas, so if you want to talk about behaviour in the Croatian Parliament, when we talk about the Rules of Procedure, I have spoken about it, and I will repeat it here, if someone insults the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, if you want to misbehave that person, I am for strict sanctions, I am for monetary sanctions as there is in other parliaments of the world and Europe, and I am also for the rigorous sanctions of exclusion up to 30 days from the meeting if we have a harsh insult of Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130302	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130303	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I, at the beginning of my debate on the report on the work of the Committee on European Affairs, can say one thing that is imposed from the very report that Croatia, or the Croatian Parliament, has not yet started working on me in the way that it should begin to work, both with the taking of a position and with the proactiveness of the adoption of certain legislation and all that should concern and refer to our citizens. So we have a problem that people rightly today when they look at us in their homes or when they talk to their friends somewhere in a situation, they say Croatia has entered the EU but we don't have too much, we don't affect some things, trends, decision-making enough, our citizens don't know what it is that makes them, what Croatia can do at all and how we should behave. That's a fact. When you look at the report, I am not accusing my fellow Milosevic, it may not have worked before, until he was the chairman of the board, but our House, our committee and we, as representatives, are not involved enough and we are not proactive enough in the adoption of certain acts in communication, expressing our views on certain European topics to influence as representatives of Croatian citizens, our voters on certain topics, because for example, the positions that the Committee takes and analyzes both from the European Council and when certain legislative initiatives are being adopted always go backwards or we receive information, and we hardly ever discuss how we influence certain things that will take place in the future. So we're just taking certain things into knowledge that have been behind us for months and a half years now. We are not aware of how much the Croatian Parliament could and the citizens should also know, be active and proactive in proposing certain things that are happening in the future, of course, the problem of Croatia that generally our Parliament does not play too much of a role in making decisions and laws other than raising a hand, means that if the government, Prime Minister Plenkovic and the ruling majority, coalitions with something disagree, there is no passing of legislative initiatives, very few amendments are adopted, etc. This is a huge difference compared to the parliaments of other European countries, but that does not mean that we would have to deal with it. We must not deal with this because our citizens should know that when we send our opinion to Brussels, that opinion must be incorporated into certain European directives and then returned to Croatia and through our legislation should help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in their daily lives. We are so little involved in these European policies that we are satisfied that we now have the same quality of products in stores as they have in Germany. Imagine what Croatia will achieve, something that is most normal, which in itself should be normal, we look at it if any achievement. Why aren't we fighting for other things? Why should Croatia not send an initiative and through European directives adopt certain rules of conduct that are related, for example, to our pensioners? Why should a minimum pension not be 60% of the average salary in the EU as a whole? Why in Croatia is 38% or 39% and why in Slovenia is 60%, and why is there an even higher percentage in some other countries than I just said here? Or, on the other hand, a minimum share in the average salary, which is why you wouldn't have the European directive so that our people with minimum wages have 500 or 1000 kuna more than they have so far a month? Or do our pensioners have an average pension of 500 or 1000 kuna more than they have today? These are topics that Croatia should open, on which to insist, of course it is very difficult to implement if you are not working and reform within our country and if you are not doing reforms and pension systems for the benefit of Croatian citizens, not such reforms as Minister Pavić is doing to the detriment of Croatian citizens where the only reason for people to work as long as possible and for pensions to grow minimally or not at all. So there are hundreds of topics that Croatia can impose, it has the possibility as a member of the EU to have an initiative and not act as a member of the EU which is small, second order, which there is nothing to ask, which Tajani can keep silent with its statements and then people suddenly see that someone rebelling against it in the European Parliament as I did on Tuesday where I told Tajani that he has to leave, that Croatia is the same as Istria and Dalmatia, that these are parts of Croatia and not according to his statements of the auditist greetings as Italy Istria and the Italian Dalmatia. On this side, Croatia must build its position, we must not act as if we are less valuable in the EU because we are not, because Croatia has equal value because it has a lot to believe me and offers the EU but that our people must be able to communicate in both the Croatian Parliament and the European Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all those involved in certain European affairs. And so I say, the report is what it is, there are no significant things that would be remembered as the initiative of the Croatian Parliament on certain issues where we could say here we suggested this or that, we did this or that. And until we stop acting like this, until we say that Croatia is a valuable member of the EU, and until we fight for ourselves in the European Parliament, we will have nothing from the EU, we will settle for crumbs, we will settle for paying a contribution that is barely anything lower than what we withdraw from European funds. But when you watch a trade in goods and what we pay with that money, we're fat in the back. Croatia should have 5x more withdrawal funds than it has at the moment to say it has financial benefits from the EU. And that is our responsibility, gentlemen, primarily the responsibility of those who are in a position not to nod their heads, not to be afraid to oppose the powers of Brussels Tajani and society, whether they are in the same position as I would say to the political group. There is no need to be afraid because you must not put an EPP in front of Croatia. The European People's Party must not be ahead of Croatia to colleagues from HDZ. And on that side, building is good, but concrete action is even better. It would have been great if the HDZ representatives had signed a request for the Tajani to resign, then it would have been something concrete and then we could say that, you really see, it's such an action. Words are one thing, deeds are another. That's what Mr. Shuker knows, he used those slogans in the campaign. I remember once you had this "Not words but deeds". So on that side, in Great Gorica, if I remember well. So, from that side, you can move the gentlemen of HDZ into action. Tajania doesn't care if you tell him anything, through one ear inside, through another outside, he probably won't repeat his mandate in the European Parliament as president and probably not as a representative, so he doesn't care what he says about him at the moment. Another final message, we need to be on our own and we need to be clear and loud about Croatia's worth of the EU, to protect ours, to build ours and to respect us as everyone else in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130304	Thank you, colleague Maras. Replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130305	Comrade Maras, you spoke about Croatia's situation in the EU, so here's the news that the government has made it clear that it does not want to and will not run for the headquarters of the European Labour Agency. I note that this is a new agency that should protect 17 million people working in other countries, including Croatia and Croatian citizens working in EU countries and preventing black-based work. Obviously, the government and what it may not want to do because this agency would bring more than 50m euros in budgets to Croatia, 150 jobs, not to mention the reputation of Croatia that it would have because again, it is one of the very important agencies that protects citizens of other countries that are working in the EU. I don't see why the government gave up, except because it's incompetent and obviously it's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130306	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130307	Thank you very much. Dear Mrsic, we are the only country, listen to this good colleague, Bauk and Suker, we are the only country in the EU that does not have the European Agency's headquarters on its territory. The only country in the EU that has no European agency headquarters on its territory. How many members are we, a member state? How long has it been? For nearly six years we have been in the EU, we are the only member state that has no agency headquarters in its territory. [[Intruding Brkić: A colleague of Šuker and my colleague, Bauk, I would like to ask you nicely not to disturb my colleague Maras.]] What's he saying? Are we acting like we're fighting for our own? That we fought for something or not? We should absolutely immediately run for this agency and do whatever is in our power to have such an agency in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130308	I thank my colleague Maras. Next replica, respected colleague Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130309	Comrade Maras, you pulled my tongue. The first thing about the board seems to me that you didn't read the report well, so I'm going to deliver it to you as well as a series of materials from that period, from that period that needs to be read, and you probably need to read what's not in this very report that we've been doing. Secondly, no one on this side of the assembly in HDZ is the European People's Party in front of Croatian interests. You've been a minister for four years. As for the activities of the Parliament and the activities of the Government, I think you are aware of where administrative and human capacities are concentrated in the Croatian state, whether in the Parliament or in the ministries and government. Secondly, you have had enough opportunities for 4 years as Minister of Entrepreneurship to prove yourself about what you are now talking about, to do everything that should have been done, which was not unfortunately taken to make Croatian entrepreneurs, especially medium and small today in a much, much more competitive position. So let's just have a little bit of a mirror next to us sometime.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130310	I thank my fellow Milosevic. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130311	Thank you very much. My colleague Milosevic, the fact is that, we were in a position, we were doing what we could, let's say he stayed behind me, if there was another year, we'd have the most modern congress centre behind the Velesim, this government had been doing it for four years, now almost 4 when Oreshkovic and Plenkovic, almost 3 and a few years, failed to finish, but this building is staring empty, and now we've entered the Croatian National Library, that it's being redecorating there, we had a beautiful center that just needed to know what had not been done. If the HDZ were Croatia in the first place compared to the Epp in this case, when European elections, when certain interests are seen, the signatures for the exchange of Tajani would be deposited, in Brussels in the European Parliament and he would know what HDZ thinks of it. This is what the rotten grandmother of lan said, it doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130312	Thank you, colleague Maras. The next replica, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130313	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you said in your statement that Croatia has joined the EU, but today's people still don't understand what the EU is. But if you take into account that our people leave in large numbers each year, right in the EU countries, you get the impression that they still understand what the EU is and what it is, and what it understands even more is the situation in their own country, which is why they do not agree and which is why they are actually moving out. Therefore, I want to ask you, do people, in fact, really not know what the EU is, or do they know what the EU is and how it is there and how it is at home, and in the condition for which it is responsible, so who? Well, the Croatian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130314	Thank you for your response, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130315	Thank you very much. They see the EU ala HDZ as we see every day in Croatia, political trade, non-transparentity, lovemaking, less and less quality of life, i.e. freedom in the Republic of Croatia, etc. And they see the EU, as it should be in some other countries, unfortunately, Croatia, such as Ireland, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, etc. And normally, by choosing between the EU and HDZ, which we now see, today in part, unfortunately in Croatia and the EU, as it should be, more and more chooses to leave Croatia, it is our job to finally change this EU, but HDZ, and to have EU rights in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130316	Thank you, colleague Maras. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130317	Dear Representative Maras, you said what makes the EU, or, for example, the European Commission, not important to increase wages or pensions in Croatia. Well, I'll tell you why, because the sacred cow of the EU is the return of the loan. And we each year give about 5 billion euros to repay the loan. And the Croatian budget says that payments from the budget are done in a certain order and then they say priority, so the first thing money has to give is credit payments and then everything else. And of course, when you give 5 billion euros or more every year, it means more than $35 billion to pay off the loan, and of course you're going to be short on money for wages and pensions, so that's a normal thing. You can't have money for everyone, and if foreign creditors are in first place, it's clear which place our workers and pensioners are in, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130318	Thank you, colleague Pernar, for the answer of my colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130319	Comrade Pernar, but let us do what others want, let's say what we want and how we will fight for our people and why we don't do what I just said. Which is why, from the EU, legislation does not come that the average pension must be 60% of the average salary, it can, it can be proposed, it can be pushed, that's what we should be doing. What someone else wants, honestly, I don't care. What our people want is the most important thing to me. And on that side, you have to act and stand up, and on that side you have to represent people, not in a way that we don't mind, because if you don't mind, if you go down the road, no one will ever appreciate you. And that's something we must finally understand, we've been in some communities for a long time, where they had more than we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130320	Thank you, colleague Maras. Next debate, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130321	Thank you very much, Vice President. Our President of the Committee on European Affairs, initially very comprehensively briefed the Committee on the work of the Committee, and this committee was actually created on the basis of that National Committee for the Monitoring of Accession Negotiations. It was then that a constructive work really could produce results. When there is political agreement on the priorities of this country and when people sitting on the board and politicians are responsible, then we really draw good and respectable results and we never diverge through stupid self-loving statements or populist flossules. I must admit that this is how it has continued to work on this committee and now, but under the chairmanship of Mr Milosevic. However, as counterpart Stier said in his statement on behalf of HDZ, there are still elements and space for improving the Committee's work. The Committee itself, in order to work in quality, must certainly have much stronger analytical support in its work, because we are working on topics that are extremely demanding and complex and de facto depend exclusively on the analysis that comes from the government. As in any European Parliament, any Member State and so on in Brussels and Strasbourg, there are services of Parliament, which are currently dealing with analysis, to prepare for a quality debate in the interests of the citizens for which they are there. Therefore, to strengthen the board with such additional capacity, I am sure it is in the interest of the Committee itself, the Parliament and the country and I am sure that it will further reduce the number of infertile debates. And when we talk about the status of the Parliament in the perception of citizens, I also think we could start, if from nothing else, from here. So, from the empowerment of the Committee of Assembly, perhaps starting with the Committee on European Affairs, so that in full sense, you can give your opinion on the topics that are coming to us, and they come to us all the time, the position of the Republic of Croatia to defend in Brussels, then we de facto perform from the position of the Government, we get the papers from it, the introductions are the Government, and we don't have any separate mechanisms through which we can check everything that the Government has served us. That is something the Assembly should have as an institution, otherwise it all depends on the individual representative and his available capacity or time. As far as the presidency itself is concerned, we face a great challenge. So, the EU presidency. We have not had a single session to discuss priorities, at least the political priorities of the Croatian EU presidency, until this moment, and which is not a mistake of the board. I think that's inadmissible. I think it's inadmissible the way the government treats this committee because it simply ignores it at times when we're very close to our chairmanship. At this point, we still don't know what to put focus on in the political sense of our presidency. The presidency could, as well as many things that are behind us, go into the wind, into empty, and here we will be just to manage meetings where some of our other interests will satisfy. Therefore, I think it would be good if the president also asked the government to hold a thematic meeting on the presidency, particularly on the political priorities of the Republic of Croatia,.../incomprehensible/... the chairmanship and that they are not presented to us so broadly, in general that you can't take him by the head or by the tail. So we should be presented exactly what Croatia wants, from the presidency, for ourselves, and how we will measure the success of such work. Without it, I say, it will all be a beautiful tourism, hosting guests, who will satisfy their interests, and we will still, unfortunately, look for each other. He was mentioned in today's debate and Mr. Tajani. I have to look back at him. So, the gentleman is the EU's president of parliament and has appeared at the meeting as an Italian politician. For what he has said, there is not a single standoff in any debate or any EU document in parliament. So he didn't have a mandate for something like that. He spoke on his own behalf, that is, in the capacity of an Italian politician, said a number of fascist ideological flossules, to which we responded sharply and showed again that we can make an agreement on important issues. But what I have to admit is disappointing, that's his apology. He apologized for hurting us. Which hurt our feelings, but he didn't withdraw his statement. It actually came down to saying, you know, I'm sorry I hurt you, but I'm still staying at my statement for my internal political reasons. And that's why the Socialists and Democrats Club in the EU is still insisting on his resignation and initiating the procedure, and I am sorry that the IPP Club, including our representatives, or HDZ representatives, has not joined such an action, but has de facto left the battlefield halfway. I think it would be much more appropriate to give a strong and clear message from Croatia to anyone who tries to touch Croatian territory that it will not go away without expecting such people for their further international careers, but absolutely no support from Croatian MPs, regardless of which party they come from. Friendships are good, friendships should be developed, friendships many things can be resolved, but when it comes to national interests, then those friendships cannot be above them, or everyone has to ask, and what kind of friendships they are if someone reaches for what is most sacred to my people and to the citizens of Croatia. It is said, therefore, that we must go to the EU with our own positions, that we must fight hard for them, that we must build our position in the decision-making and decision-making process in the EU, you cannot gain any better respect than in the clear national interests for which you fight unequivocally and unequivocally. This was such a situation, we should have gone together, so all of the EU's representatives from Croatia all the way to the end to insist that the Tajani withdraws their statement or to move away from that place, but, well, halfway along the way, some have given up and I think it's a bad message that we sent to the Croatian public as well. Otherwise, as for our committee, to return, I also think it would be a good idea to have additional thematic meetings on important issues because very often, once we have a session, we cannot discuss the details that should be discussed in some policy, so perhaps a continuing debate on certain topics, such as, say, the future of Europe because we said that we do not want Europe at more speed, that is fine, but we did not show what kind of Europe we want and give some guidance to the political government for what kind of Europe needs to be advocated in the talks at the highest level. Therefore, some topics are very complex and require continued work and given that we have worked very well on this committee, I think we should continue to do so, other than those technical things, other than those operational things that come to our committee daily, to put a little more emphasis on strategic things and try to contribute a little more to that policy making in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130322	I thank my colleague Klisovic. Replica, dear colleague Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130323	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Klisovic, and for the warnings. As far as preparation and future chairmanship are concerned, they are ongoing, don't worry, everything will be on time and we will all be involved, including you, especially in this parliamentary section concerning the presidency in the first 6 months of 2020. What we agree on, which is that strategic national interests are common to us here in this Chamber, and I am absolutely certain of that, regardless of our differences, that we will fight together when it comes to strategic national interests in the EU. So far we've been thinking about our sessions, so we've been doing and we've been listening to each other, the answer to the white book has been unanimously adopted, and so we're going to continue and you're free to attach any thematic session at any time, and I'm going to respect it, and we're sure we're going to convene the thematic sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130324	I thank my fellow Milosevic, my colleague Klisovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130325	Thank you very much, Vice President. For national interests we will always fight and there should be no doubt. As far as the presidency is concerned, I expected to be honest with the government's initiative, that the government itself would understand that this is its parliament and come with proposals of political priority, which would then be discussed in our committee. So what is the added value of such a debate? So that you have, then, all the coalition in power and the opposition united around certain priorities or that these priorities are being questioned and that it is understood that it may not be the best focus of our presidency to put on such a thing. The support of the Council for Priorities that the government thinks, I hope that the thought of establishing during the presidency is certainly welcome. The worst thing would be if the government came to us with 5 to 12 priorities on the table and expected us to just support it without some substantial debate or possibility of affecting their own formulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130326	I thank my colleague Klisovic for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130327	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So we should ask ourselves, in the light of this report, what is HDZ policy within the EU. For those citizens who do not know or are less interested, it is important to note that the HDZ in Brussels is a member of a group called the European People's Party, which is currently the ruling party, but some call it the mainstream and that within that group there is therefore Mr Tajani, who was their candidate for the President of the European Parliament, who has become, who came here to Zagreb and who said that he would have lived in Croatia for HDZ and that Mr Tajani declares that Istria and Dalmatia are Italian countries. Do you gentlemen from HDZ know what the Italian occupation of Croatia and Slovenia has brought to the people here? Do you know that the Italians have imprisoned 70 thousand Croats in concentration camps? Do you know that the Italians organized Chetnik troops on Croatian territory and that the headquarters of the Chetnik troops were occupied in Split and Zadar? That it was they who encouraged the Chetniks in Knin and in Lika who committed countless crimes against the civilian population and, among other things, founded a camp in Kosovo in Croatia, Kosovo, which bears the name of Serbian Jasenovac. Do you know that these Italians, forced Ante Pavelic to hand them Istria and Dalmatia to the Roman Treaties, and that their plan was to finish the 2nd World War where they thought Hitler would defeat the Croats even more territory than they originally took? Do you know that in Istria there is a village of Lipa, one of the three villages in Europe in which residents were killed all the way to the last one, meaning a number of zeros, and that this crime was committed by Italian fascists and that this village still stands as a terrible monument to these crimes and that you, therefore, blind by healthy eyes, deaf by healthy ears, support such a single character, therefore, a man who supports fascism as his representative in the European Parliament. And that you are now looking forward to Mr. Tajani's apology under the table in secret, that you continue to support that policy, because you're supposed to be to him now, supposedly, he's all forgiven now. Within the same European People's Party, within which HDZ is located, there is a party of Aleksandar Vukic, a man whose government has allowed the rehabilitation of Drazen Mihajlovic, whose government allows the establishment of a museum of Chetniks in Rakno Gora, whose government is in Serbia's schools to lead to the honour of Momcila Djujic, a war criminal whose government in Republika Srpska allows the establishment of Ratko Mladic's kindergarten, who has never apologized for his statements that the Serbian city, which, therefore, wants to cut off Republika Srpska from BIH, is, among other things, that the current plan of that government is the secession of part of Kosovo, which creates a state in Serbia, where citizens are day and where mob killings are daily, where virtually mobs are part of state institutions. And that such a party supports HDZ and even paints with them, they drink champagne together. So we can essentially conclude that this HDZ policy is just a continuation of politics and World War II where the Italians support the Chetniks and the Croatian government only comes down to it and we can't do anything about it, such is the dictatorship from Germany. So it is completely contrary to all Croatian national interests of a healthy, healthy mind to support Tajani and there is nothing to support Vukic or call him in Croatia at all. Gentlemen of HDZ who do not know history, the Chetnik programme publicly states that the great Serbia is to Senj, Karlovac and Virovitica and that there is no room for any Croats in such a large Serbia, I quote, for any Croat, for any Albanian, for any Bosniak, Muslim. It is a classical racist, fascist programme that the current government in Serbia has not only not given up but has again rehabilitated it. You come here amongst other things and you sell us a story about how you fight pulsism and who's a populist no. 1st in Europe at least according to some kind of official attitude? Victor Orban. And what political group is he in? In the political group of the European People's Party, i.e. Andrej Plenkovic. When will Mr. Plenkovic allegedly fight populism, will he fight against Mr. Orban? He's not going to, but he's going to give it to the INA, and he's going to give it to some kind of deal under the table. Although we all know that in Hungary, for example, the state of the media is such that 30 leading media, all 30 have the same cover every morning and that there is no difference in opinion and that all the media is under state control and that all the funds coming from the EU and European funds are shared in the family of the Hungarian president, i.e. the prime minister. These are questions that the Croatian public expects to answer, and these are questions where we are rightly concerned whether we will lose even our territory in the future because this is all we have already shared. We've divided the companies, we've divided the infrastructure, we've given up any independence, any reputation, and now we're still with those who don't want us to have a good HDZ co-operation. In this light, of course, this unfortunate departure of the BiH ambassador to Banja Luka and all that is happening, the policy of enmity towards official Sarajevo and in favour of Milorad Dodik, etc. I would like to ask in the end that Mr Milosevic, who is a member of the EU today is an ally of the Republic of Croatia, answers me. Give me the name of that ally, here's that we know who we can rely on, which country is friendly to us if it even exists. Sometimes Franjo Tudjman used to say that at least he was a friend of ours. Whether they are at least our other friends, although they are not EU members if no one else is already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130328	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130329	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I came here today with no clothes, no shirt, no tie, no shoes. And the reason why I came is not to give a speech like every other day, but to point to one aspect of European affairs that will come to the heads of our citizens for this report on our European affairs. In fact, you probably all know that the European Court of Justice has brought down the law on credit default granted by foreign unauthorized creditors, or credit cooperatives, more or less from Austria, which did so without the approval of the CNB. And what does that law mean for our citizens? The law actually shows the EU's contempt for our legislation. The European Court simply says what you Croats will like to pass some laws to protect your citizens from foreign creditors. Well, you can't make such a law. And resultingly, what's going on? It happens that it is essential that all claims for the integrity of these credit agreements that the citizens have raised under this Law on Vulnerabilities will be dropped. And if you start from the assumption that there are only a thousand such lawsuits, that is, a thousand such families, you understand that it will be millions of expenses. In fact, the European Court of Justice which violated the basic principle on which the sovereign state rests, which is that it chooses its own representatives, determines its own Constitution and laws. We are no longer deciding our laws in the EU today. Our laws for the EU are not worth anything. And not only do they not recognize our laws as in this case, but we get new laws on the daily basis from Brussels, so on. European directives that we must implement in our legislation. And two-thirds of all the laws that come here on the table come from Brussels. However, unlike Brussels, we cannot send from Zagreb to Brussels laws that Brussels should adopt. So the directives are one-way. They come from Brussels to Zagreb, not from Zagreb to Brussels. Once in Yugoslavia, in order for a law to apply to all republics, i.e. at the level of the entire Yugoslavia, all republics first had to adopt it in their own legislation. However, in Brussels, or the EU, it works in a way that first some legislation is passed in Brussels, and then all the republics, or Member States, must adopt it, or translate it into their own legislation. With the loss of sovereignty, the citizens were convinced of the following, we were talking, like, uh, Mr. Stier, for example. Give up some of your freedoms, independence, individuality, and in return we will give you something good, here, citizens, who supported the EU, who had loans in these RBAs from Austria, which without the approval of the CNB in Croatia, some of these citizens gave up their country's sovereignty, voted in favour of joining the EU. And today, what is happening to them, is that today the EU is going to take off their underpants and actually give these foreign creditors to complete them and ultimately to defuse them. I'm sorry that the government, which is run from Brussels, means, which is puppet and servant, is not able to understand this enormous problem for our citizens. And on this occasion, I would like to say that I support tomorrow's protest in front of the Supreme Court, which aims to warn of the disastrous situation of debtors in Croatia, which has not improved by entering the EU, but as in the case of RBA cooperatives, it has even deteriorated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130330	I thank my colleague Pernar. End word on behalf of the applicant. Dear colleague Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130331	Thank you, Vice President. So I want to say a few things. First of all, it's not acceptable for me to defetism. Defetism does not need anyone in Croatia today, we need optimism, of course, based on some facts, plans and goals. So, defetism doesn't need our children who we want to stay in Croatia and I don't need any debate today that spreads defetism here. Whether he agrees or disagrees on Croatia's EU membership itself. Only membership, I personally, see as a great and powerful tool that Croatia today has. I hate to actually talk about EU funds, so I'm not going to talk about it today, but I'm going to say a little example that has somehow escaped over the past few years. Croatia was in the longest recession within the EU. We came out of recession, not because of the then left government and its procedures, but thanks exclusively to the entry into EU membership and the growth of exports of products and services, primarily medium and small entrepreneurs in Croatia. I would even say, despite the current efforts of the government of Zoran Milanovic. A friend of Bunjac mentioned friends. Well, I've traveled a lot over the past two years as head of the European Affairs Committee. Croatia has many friends. However, we must understand in Croatia that as in life, friends come and go, in political life, there are primarily interests. Joint interests with some countries, some not. And these interests change over time. And as in life, you have as strong and more powerful as you are in yourself and safer, you have more friends. This is how we should view our future position in the EU. You mentioned Tajani, I don't think there's anyone in this assembly at all, no matter what our otherwise differences exist, that we haven't condemned his statements as completely unacceptable. As far as Serbia, HDZ and the HDZ government are concerned, the entire parliamentary majority that it is good for Croatia to have the whole area so-called. The Western Balkans have a European perspective. We think it is important for Croatia, I think it is important for our security, including our economic future, not only from the position of tourism, but also from the position of tourism. Especially when we talk about that security. Serbia on that path, for God's sake, will have to do a lot, yes. And that's what we'll all agree on in this assembly. We may have some stronger expressions, someone less severe, but we will all agree that for Croatia's future and for our security and for our economy, it is good that all countries have a perspective and that, in time, with an individual approach, they will eventually enter the EU, and I hope, most of them and NATO alliances. I think a small shift in the right direction, a good step, regardless of the really high price, so change the name of its own country from Macedonia to northern Macedonia, is the ultimate price that any political party or political leadership can pay. However, this small shift in that space and a step closer to Macedonia towards the NATO Alliance, and the EU, I think, is important to our entire area. Let me go back to Serbia a little bit, so that road has just begun. I joined Croatian politics only at the very end of Croatia's EU accession negotiations, there is one in this assembly, such as my colleague Stier is much more invited to talk about the road. This trip was really painful and HDZ invested huge political capital, then I was on the other side, I will say, barricades, I was on the side of entrepreneurs at the time, I watched it, but from a pretty close point of view from the position of the Croatian Employers' Association, that road was really hard, thorny, long and HDZ paid, some times and a pretty big political price. With firm conviction that Croatia's EU membership guarantees a safer future for us and our children. The same time, I would say, given that I am talking to these European politicians and not only in Brussels, but across Member States, it is even harder and longer, a more challenging road ahead of Serbia. Especially with the leadership he's got today. And yes, Serbia's path to the EU will pass through Vukovar and Skabrnja. There's no dilemma about it. In the end, just let me have one more sentence, and that is no matter how many times we can disagree or agree on how Brussels works, in order for it to work better, otherwise, I am the last person who will ever defend any bureaucracy, I will not defend or think of defending even Brussels bureaucracy. But what is not good and what is wrong, fundamentally wrong, the things that are in our domain, the topics depend exclusively on us, this Parliament and Croatian governments, putting a burden on someone in Brussels, it is not a good way. We need to have arguments, we need to deal with facts, and we need our public who is looking at and listening here and expecting all of us answers about our future, the future of our children, to be able to properly inform, which times and educate. Finally, I will just say that, given the challenges facing each Member State, the whole of Europe, it is obvious that they are migrant, therefore external migration, security, defence, technological, demographic, economic, social, nor the richest Germany outside the EU will be easier than they will face all the challenges facing each Member State and the Union as a whole for the next 10, 20, 50 years and HDZ is and will continue to fight for Croatian national interests within the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130332	I thank my esteemed colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. We have one replica, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130333	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is fellow Milosevic, today there has been criticism at the expense of the EU-based directives. But Croatia participates in the adoption of these directives and regulations, so Croatia's representative must vote on it and Croatia's position is determined among other things by the meetings of the committee you chair. So I would like to ask you whether those who criticise these regulations and those directives come to the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs and contribute to the needs of the Republic of Croatia. What should our representatives in this Brussels say? What do they have to agree to and what not? So as the Croatian Parliament, we participate in defining which position is Croatia and then Croatia participates in the adoption of these European directives. Are those MPs coming to the board meeting?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130334	I thank my esteemed colleague Stier. The answer of fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130335	Thank you, Vice President. Well, unfortunately not, Comrade Stier. I must say today I have been trying to last here for several hours not to call anyone, but now that you have said not only not to come, not to participate, but even when they are in our guests, which is on average when the Croatian Parliament is sitting once a month, a Commissioner of the European Commission comes. You know what the interest is? Neglect. So it's easy to lift a bat around here, criticize, talk nonsense, when I have to say it like that. So I respect anyone who has an argument, a different attitude from us on this side, you're welcome, no matter who took advantage of it, here and there seems to me once a colleague of Pernar, you're all welcome to the board meeting especially when there are commissioners, ask and listen. But then just that time he was also a colleague of Pernar, he should listen and the answer on the other hand is not enough just to say, he should and listen, of course we won't agree but it doesn't matter, we're talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130336	I thank my dear fellow Milosevic for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, we're closing the debate. I would like to thank the President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, for the reasons and answers and for submitting the report on the work of the Committee. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-22-0.u130337	The report on the work of the Committee on European Affairs for the period from 28 October 2016 to 31 December 2017 is the applicant of the Committee on European Affairs, the debate is closed, so I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for the period from 28 October 2016 to 31 December 2017 is hereby adopted, please vote. I find that most of the votes 97 for, 1 abstention and 2 against, the report in the text of the applicants has been accepted. We are now going to discuss a respected colleague, Vlaha Orepic, who speaks as an independent representative, please.
