ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148175	Now we're going to move on to a position on behalf of the clubs. And the first club of MPs will be that of IDS, PGS and RI in the name of which the respected representative Emil Daus will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148176	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. She started a new school year. For some classes and a new educational model, so-called Schools for life, and all of course as part of the education system reform that has been announced for years. Not only is it announced, but through the media and other PR channels information is placed on how reform is thoroughly prepared and how its implementation of the entire education system will be better, more modern, more efficient and adapted to today's and future needs in society and tomorrow on the labour market. Assuming that the intention and aim of implementing educational reform are positive and correct because I believe that we all aim to live with a view to the future and to educate young people for the future and not to go into the very changes and newspapers in the education system today, I must react in front of our club representatives to some of the situations that are happening on the ground, which is due to the unpreparedness and disorganization of the responsible. It's already stuck in the first step. Confusedness and disorganization in the purchase of textbooks and work notebooks. As a result, some textbooks and notebooks, work notebooks, are still missing after 20 days of teaching. If part of the responsibility could have been on the part of the workbooks themselves, only the state should have taken care of the textbooks. The pills say it'll be good if they get to New Year's Eve. They expect them more cautiously at the end of the school year. And the first lesson children have learned at the School of Life is not to trust the institutions of the state. Not even when they're wearing gifts. I mean free textbooks. Because after all the pompous announcements, explanations and assurances of quality implementation of educational reform, the feeling remains again that this is also a typical example of reform in the Croatian way. Although I think that the right to reform in this case does not exist because real and full reforms have worked out every detail and in the process of implementation it goes when everything is ready for it to be implemented in the least painful and most effective way. It's still about too important a subject. The system of education for our children where the state must not allow for unseriousness. And the situation on the ground shows that you let her do it. I have two more things to mention before the end. These are the inequality of working conditions and equipment and the inequality of teaching content in such a small country with so few children. We are the first to respect and respect diversity. After all, for some time in Istria, the county has been conducting its traditional teaching with the aim of learning and preserving the value of its homeland. It is all of course as an additional teaching content, but the basic teaching content must be the same throughout the country. In addition to making the system cheaper, it would be easier to coordinate the same system in walking, and at the end of the education process, they would know exactly what we are getting. However, in order to know what you will get, you must first know exactly what you want. And what's equally important, if not more importantly, is the unequal working conditions. No matter what 6 Istrian cities in the Croatian top 15 in youth education and what most schools are reconstructed or some new ones made, we must be responsible for children throughout the country and where less developed environments are. The old buildings, the weariness of the facilities, somewhere below the basic minimum, the unequipped or only partial equipment of the teaching cabinets, if any, are a picture of the number of schools in the country. For quality and full reform, it was necessary to make the basic preconditions first, regardless of how much they cost because the real reforms cost as much as any real investment, but also like any real investment and reform rights returned invested. But obviously we're out of it. Our responsible institutions failed to provide all textbooks in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148177	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of IDS, PGS, and LRI on behalf of whom will speak the respected representative Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148179	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the EU waste disposal directive, the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to build waste management centres and to repair all open dumps. Istra also respected this obligation by building the Kastijun county waste management centre and closing and resuscitating former open waste dumps in almost all local self-government units in its area, all in accordance with acts prescribed by the State itself of the Waste Management Act, the municipal waste management regulation and the waste management plan in the Republic of Croatia. We in Istria as disciplined citizens who respect the laws and regulations, established the Kastion company for the purpose of establishing a whole and sustainable system of processing that implies at the beginning of the cycle of selecting and recycling the collected waste from municipal societies and at the end of the cycle, the takeover of a final product produced by mechanical-biological waste treatment. However, the entire waste treatment and recycling system and the creation of the waste market has not yet been established. Although the state authorities themselves have prescribed mechanical and biological waste management technology, these same state bodies have not established a market for secondary raw materials and not only plastics, paper, glass, but also large waste, which has become a growing problem and have not offered a concrete, long-term and acceptable solution for the disposal of waste fuel. We therefore call but also expect from the Ministry of Environmental Protection to take urgent and effective measures, all in order to establish a market for secondary raw materials and fuel disposal from waste. We also expect from the Environmental Protection Fund the realization agreed, by an agreement confirmed, multiple times by the state promised, and now unsustainable financial assistance, to address the recorded structural shortcomings in the construction plant that cause the spread of unpleasant smells from Kastion, legitimate concern of locals and the extraordinary situation in the middle of the tourist season. Istria County, cities and municipalities cannot afford another tourist season without establishing a quality, efficient, environmentally-acceptable waste management system because the consequences for Istrian tourism and thus for the Croatian economy would be fatal. In order to address this serious problem, the Istrian County is ready to take over its part of its obligations and responsibilities and the same level and willingness and responsibility we expect from the state body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148181	The second is Mr. Daus in front of the IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148182	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I am reporting today on behalf of the club to point out something that, if previously not seen enough and predicted possible consequences, could soon negatively affect the quality of life and standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is a proposal for new measures in the so-called I must immediately say that we in the IDS have always been in favour of discharging entrepreneurs and creating environments that will stimulate wage growth, but we are also always in favour of accessing everything systematically and planning in the long term because it is the only way to create a secure business environment, and safety is the prerequisite of every investment in the economy, as well as any planning, additional employment and salary increase. And when you plan to take something or reduce it somewhere, you need to think about where it will be able to come back from, and everything so that the current standard of citizens can be maintained and possibly improved. It is about the fact that the said discharge pays the mind to be carried out in a way that is up to the age of 25 for young employees. Life does not pay income tax, and for those until the 30th to pay 50% of the total. We know that income tax is the largest part of cities and municipalities and the smaller part of the county, according to some estimates it is estimated to be an estimated amount of about 500 million kuna and I am now asking whether it is thought enough to question the realisation of capital projects in some areas, whether it is about kindergartens, schools, homelands for older people, roads, whether it is enough to consider that citizens in their municipalities and cities are funding additional facilities and activities for particularly sensitive groups of society as well as over-standards in kindergartens, schools, but also emergency aid, fire, as well as other services and institutions where the state fails to do so by means of the state budget, I don't think it't think enough and that it's not being systematically considered because it would not be systematically happening to destabilize the everyday life of citizens, and create inequality in society, such a system would require an unequalsolution. Is this a solution to the return of those state-owned assets within the borders of construction areas, cities and municipalities, so that they can put it into function and further run the economy or allow municipalities and cities to have other sources of funding such as 2% of VAT, so that you can see how much more can be done with that money when responsibility is direct and operationally faster than the state level, then this kind of intervention of the state into the local budget will not create destabilisation and destroy the standard of citizens. We at the IDS Club think that these are solutions, and that it is high time to do so, that this country finally begins to decentralise at that operational rather than just symbolic level, to finally stop most of the tax reforms being brought to harm local and regional administrations and self-government, but also to the state to take over its share of responsibility. Start making bold and responsible decisions, citizens expect it from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148184	Now we're going to take a stand on behalf of the clubs, so the first one will be the IDS, PGS and RI club on behalf of the respected representative Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148185	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The 30th Competence Centre has been reported for a competition from the Ministry of Economy in which around 786 million kunas of grants for research and development of new products have been reserved for Croatia in terms of strengthening the competitiveness of the domestic economy, creating new jobs and increasing exports. The competition was opened in 2016, and given the importance, the objectives and the entrepreneurs who are trying to reach the incentives are very worrying that even three years later, no kuna from the competition has been awarded, and there is no indication that it will be soon, although under the conditions of the competition, the first money should be distributed at the beginning of 2018. Furthermore, after all further clarifications, the addition of documentation, the evidence of financial capacity that their notifiers sent to the ministry multiple times earlier this month has arrived another in a series of requests for further clarifications, additions and evidence. Companions and colleagues in these three years have been put into great effort by all the partners in the projects, significant material resources from which, apart from legal and financial capacity, great patience was obviously expected. The epilogue is that partners give up because of the slowness of state bureaucracy, that experts from the Centre of Competence go abroad, that we do not meet the goals that we set ourselves. Instead of using reserved European money, we are exposed to the risk of paying the fines and the loss of the financial reward for well-used funds that are not small. At the very end, I would like to point out, dear colleagues and colleagues, that it is a direct investment in science and innovation, based on the development of the economy, that it is a significant monetary amount, and the ministry has not done its job. So I call on the ministry to help develop the economy faster and more efficiently because this kind of inaction drives it to stagnation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148186	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148187	We're going to be taking a stand on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the first gentleman, I don't know this question, is the first Mr. Giovanni Sponza to speak the position of Club IDS, PGS and LRI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148188	Dear Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues last week have pointed to the ineffectiveness of the state body, and this is about the non-use of EU funds where we lose significant amounts of money. Today I point to another situation, about 80 projects are approved as part of the cross-border programme INTERREG Italy-Croatia, which includes 100 Croatian partners. Co-financing of over EUR 200 million has also been authorised for those projects. In that project, the Ministry of Regional Development is a control body of the first level, which means that all Croatian partners to the Ministry send reports for spent funds at accounting times, and reports the Ministry evaluates and sends leading partners to report to the EU or to approve the payment of grants spent by partners by specific project activities. For the first programming period, the partners sent their reports, and the Ministry of Regional Development, which was to be evaluated, did not do so. So again, due to the inaction of the state body, the deadline has been breached. And what do we have for the aftermath? That Croatian partners have been informed by leading partners that they will be excluded from funding for the first programming period until the ministry does its part of the job. That Croatian partners are now forced to raise loans to ensure further liquidity and can implement all project activities, that due to the inaction of the state body the burden is transferred to the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties. I'm just asking a few questions, given what's been said. Has the EU approved an extension of the deadline? Will the ministry be able to process all requests by the new deadline? And can we expect the ministry to be late again with the evaluation of applications for the following periods? Dear colleagues and colleagues and this example in no way do I want to reduce any effort, no importance, no value of the projects that have been agreed and implemented so far. But I will repeat, it is our duty and the obligation of state bodies to do everything to make as much use of EU funds as possible. Last time I spoke about EU funds for the centre of competence worth EUR 200 million. Today I pointed out the problem of INTERREG project worth EUR 200 million. My colleagues and colleagues are talking about projects and 3 billion kuna grants, which suggests that one responsible should be monitored and implemented, which is a state body, does not seem or behave responsibly. The rich and serious and responsible states that you think would easily miss three billion kunas, I don't think, which is why I point to these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u148189	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149638	And now we move on to the first item of the agenda, that is: - Proposed law on compensation of workers of the company “Plobest d.d.”, first reading, P.Z. No. 642 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environment and Nature and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. Now, I would like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. With us, Environment and Energy Minister Tomislav Coric is respected. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149639	Thank you very much, Mr. President Jandrokovic. Honorable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. Let me explain to you in the next ten to fifteen minutes the proposal for a law on the compensation of workers of the company “Plobest d.d.”. This exposure will indeed be counterproportional to the length of the waiting of former workers “Plobest d.d.” to compensation based on long-term exposure to asbestos. In the area of RH asbestos has been widely used since World War II, and primarily in the asbestos cement industry in the construction of the carriage materials of asbestos thread and in shipbuilding and construction. Since the early 1950s in Croatia, up to 60 thousand tons of asbestos have been processed annually and used in production. The problem of asbestos in the Republic of Croatia was highlighted in 1961 when the first cases of asbestos were described. In view of the potential threat of asbestos disease in professional exposure, workers are less or more organised under periodic health control. Based on the dynamics of knowledge of the adverse impact of asbestos on health, a number of international organisations and institutions have proposed constant reductions in the permitted level of asbestos in the workplace until the ban on the use of asbestos in the manufacture and use of asbestos-containing products. The specificities of asbestos exposure are contained in the fact that signs of disease as well as the health effects of workers on asbestos jobs generally occur significantly later and up to 20 years after inhaling asbestos particles. Exposure to asbestos can cause numerous lung and pleuro conditions such as asbestos, pleura thickening, small airway disease and other malignancies. At the 72nd session held on 4 June 1986, the International Labour Organisation adopted the Convention on Safety in the Use of asbestos, which provides for national laws or regulations to lay down the measures to be taken to prevent and control workers from being exposed to health due to the professional exposure to asbestos and that national laws or other regulations lay down the necessary measures, including appropriate sanctions to ensure the effective application and compliance with the provisions of this Convention. The Republic of Croatia has agreed to amend legislation that regulates maximum concentration in 1993, by adopting a Regulation on maximum levels of harmful substances in the atmosphere of working rooms and spaces and biologically limited values. In 1999, EU countries accepted the obligation to implement a series of measures to stop the use of asbestos, and the EU limited the use and transport of asbestos-containing products by its legislation. By signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU as of 1 January 2002, the Republic of Croatia has assumed the obligation to comply with its legislation with EU legislation, including legislation relating to the production, transport and use of asbestos-containing products. The asbestos problem is regulated with several different regulations in the Republic of Croatia. In order to take care of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos during work in the Republic of Croatia, a package of laws was adopted in early August 2007 and this is the Law on terms of obtaining the right to retirement due to the professional exposure of asbestos, the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers of professional asbestos and the Law on the compensation of workers of professional asbestos. The law on conditions for the acquisition of age pension rights of workers professionally exposed to asbestos enables workers to acquire the right to an age pension under favourable conditions from so-called. General conditions laid down by the Pension Insurance Act. With the addition of the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to age pension of professionally exposed asbestos from January 2010, the category of workers who suffered from asbestos disease during their work was established by a solution to the recognition of a professional disease by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and allowed the exercise of age pension rights under more favourable conditions, with an increase in pension by 26%. The Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos has made a commitment to pay off the initial demands of asbestos workers. The law on compulsory health supervision of workers of professionally exposed asbestos provides a way of monitoring the health status of workers exposed to asbestos, the process of diagnosing professional diseases caused by asbestos, and the bodies responsible for monitoring the health status and conducting diagnostic procedures in the event of suspicion of a professional disease. Later in July 2011, the Law on the compensation of the company's workers, Salonit d.d., was adopted in bankruptcy, in the bankruptcy of Vranjic, which was granted the right to compensation with 170 workers found in a working relationship in Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy, Vranjic, on 14 February 2006, who lost their jobs because of the ban on asbestos. However, we must stress that there remains a problem with 7 former Salonite workers who have met the conditions, but who have failed to submit claims for compensation because they died in the meantime. Short on Plobest. The basic activity of Plobest d.d. and Plobest d.d. in bankruptcy, it was produced by asbestos products. Here it should be pointed out that in this way Plobest d.d., i.e. workers d.d., Plobesta d.d. have probably been most directly exposed to asbestos in the context of production in the Republic of Croatia. In October 1999, a bankruptcy procedure was opened against a company which ended in January 2005 and eventually was deleted from the register. Since the above-mentioned package of laws on the care of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos during work in the Republic of Croatia, the issue of compensation for workers who had been exposed to the adverse effects of asbestos on health in the long term has not been resolved, this law proposes to damage 510 workers who were employed by Plobest d.d. in the period from 8 October 1991 to 21 October 2002. and achieved at least 5 years of professional asbestos exposure, and all according to the view that disease cannot occur unless the worker has been professionally exposed to asbestos for at least 5 years, accepted at the 3rd meeting on asbestos exposure and similar fibres held in 1988 in Zagreb. As reference dates, they took Independence Day, October 8, 1991 and October 21, 2002, the day before the establishment of Novi Plobest d.o.o. which wasn't registered to work with asbestos. As on 8 October 1991, the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision on the termination of all national law bindings on the basis of which, together with the other republics and provinces, the former SFRY was established, the real relations were reached by that date, so by 8 October 1991, they must be regulated in the same way for all of them, and this is the relevant date in the recognition of the rights in question. Workers of the company Plobest d.d. and Plobest d.d. In the event that the conditions are met, i.e. their successors, it is proposed to pay all that compensation in a period of 3 years in such a way that by the end of 2019 the amount of 73,000 kuna is paid, up to the end of 2020 and by the end of 2021 the amount of 73,000 kuna on behalf of the compensation for the multi-annual exposure of asbestos, i.e. the total amount of 219 thousand kuna per worker. The amount of compensation per worker shall be equal to the amount of compensation of the company’s employees, Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy, Vranjic for losing his job to ban asbestos. The obligation to provide compensation and payment obligation under this law is assumed by the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank you for your patience and attention. I believe that by adopting this Law on the compensation of workers of the company Plobest d.d. to be corrected by a long-standing injustice against these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149640	I thank the minister. We've got 10 replicas, first mate Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149641	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, we see only those who have been Plobesto's workers since October 8, 1991, and those who have worked before, and they have worked in the same company and have been in contact with asbestos. I expect you'll accept that in this first reading so that in the second reading you can take that restriction down, and you'd be asked one question that's important about this too, it's about the Environment Fund. You were familiar with the parliamentary question six months ago in the case of... We see what's going on in that very important segment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have done nothing, and here it is no longer the question of Mr. Ponos, director of the Environment Agency, but the question of your resignation. You were warned six months ago, and you didn't have the decency to answer the parliamentary question. I'm asking you, are you going to resign because of what's going on at the Environment Fund?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149642	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149643	Dear Mr. Bull, thank you very much for your questions. So, as regards the first question, it is the date of October 8, as we stated in 1991, because the Republic of Croatia, as well as all other countries, came from the former SFRY and interrupted all its state-owned relations with the former state and in this context a series of Croatian laws, are in fact all obligations taken over from that moment on October 8, 1991. I understand your concern for our citizens and citizens who have worked in this society before and in some others, however, it is simply not possible to do so on the basis of legal gain. As far as your second question is concerned, the insinuations you listed are simply not justified and that will be all I'm going to say at this point regarding the key topic of our today's exposure. on the subject. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149644	Let's go to another replica, colleague Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149645	Dear Minister. We reiterate that the issue of Plobest from Plobest began to be resolved through the Environment Protection Committee as chaired by the President of the Living Wall. It was a question of whether it would have been resolved at all if it hadn't been solved then. On the other hand, we have a problem with Vranjica workers from Salonita who still means the families of the seven deceased workers are not compensated for what you mentioned because they are not submitted at the time of their application. Are you going to handle this at least they're too late to report it? Also, the victims of asbestos fibers are located in both Oilic and Brodosplit. Are you going to damage these workers and all other workers by the same standards and whether these workers and their families will receive those damages? Here's a thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149646	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149647	Thank you, Your Honor, for your questions. So let me first of all refer to this first part of your exposure, really the problem of compensation from Vranjica workers is not resolved, you listed seven people who are not compensated and we will try to approach the solution in the next period and the problem. As regards the discussions or discussions on this topic on the Committee on the Environment, I am therefore aware that it has actually been initiated on that committee, but the initiative to resolve this problem has been followed by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, not the Assembly Committee. As for the moment of exposure of other workers in alternative asbestos industries, I believe that the existing legislative framework is a foothold for a solution. not lex specialis and as in the case of Salonita [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the Lobest case. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149648	Time's up. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149649	Thank you. Dear Minister, I've been asking you a question about the workers for about five months now about what my colleague Bulj was saying that they were doing before '91. year, you say most of our laws are such that they refer only to a modern Croatian state, but in your answer to my representative's question where I ask you why workers who have worked and less than 5 years are not foreseen, you answer that according to the attitude accepted at the 3rd working meeting on asbestos exposure and similar fibres held in Zagreb in 1988, the occurrence of the disease cannot occur unless the worker is exposed for 5 years. Well, I guess something has changed in medicine since '88, you're referring to one decision that was made at a workers' meeting in Zagreb in '88, and for all those people who worked during that period, you don't want to respect them, you don't want to give them compensation under this law. That's where you showed one pure inconsistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149650	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149651	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya, for your question, but I would not agree with you. So this attitude in 1988 is not a worker's position but a profession's view on the matter. And the waist then made it clear that it was precisely the 5th annual exposure to asbestos and asbestos fibers that could lead to this type of disease or damage. That's one moment. The fact that it happened then, so before 1991, what you're alluding doesn't mean that even then our legal relations with the people who worked in any society can be based in '88, '74. Or '53. A year. Therefore, once again, the Republic of Croatia is taking over the legal gain or assumes obligations by all types since 8 October 1991 and that is also the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149652	Fourth in line, Comrade Orepić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149653	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, this proposal could be better and different, more comprehensive, etc., but the protection of workers in the workplace should be imperative for all of us as well as for their physical health. I fully support this compensation initiative because it points to one direction in which we should all go, towards a solidarity society. The exposure to asbestos was fatal to many of our citizens, so I fully understand the essence of this compensation proposal. I want to take advantage of the opportunity and point out, regardless of the party's belongings, this may be an example in which we as a society should go, and this is a solidarity society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149654	Answer, please. No answer, okay. Then it's time for the fifth, Comrade Babic Ante, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149655	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm glad you've been thinking about these people, grateful to all 510 workers who will be covered by this law. You have also seen from the replicas of colleagues, distinguished colleagues from the opposition, that this reference period is actually problematic. It wouldn't be good if we made an even greater injustice like that. First is reading, I think we should think about those things. I don't know how many other people would be included in these 510 so we can correct that injustice so something like what happened to Salonita Vranjic doesn't happen to us, and we actually need to tell the truth here. It happened for the simple reason that one part of these people didn't apply in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149656	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149657	Thank you very much, Mr. Babic, for your comment first of all, but also for supporting the bill. So, we were really thinking about the conditions of this law, and above all, we went after the profession in the context of the length of the exposure, and on the other hand, for the opinion of the profession, and on the other hand, first of all, for the legal gain of the Republic of Croatia. I am sure that no proposal for a law will satisfy all stakeholders in society, probably not be satisfied with this either, but I think that by including these 510 people and their future compensation, we have done the least possible wrong for those who will eventually remain unsatisfactory. As for Salonite, we are aware of the fact that there are also a number of workers who, due to these or those circumstances, did not eventually apply to the law or to the time of the law, and that is why Besides this fact that it's not settled that we're going to try to solve it. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149658	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149659	Thank you very much. Mr. Ministers have already told their colleagues about this reference date, but there is another illogicality related to it. So, I think it's unfair that the workers who were in the period from 8.10.1991. until 2002. exposed to asbestos, but they worked less than 5 years. in that period, but cumulatively longer than 5 years. that the same will not be achieved under this law by the right to compensation, means not only that we cut off the date, although people worked before that date, but even those who worked in the company after '91. They have cumulatively 5 years, but not during this period, I can't make any damage. And one more thing with which I must warn here, unfortunately in the City of Zagreb, 18 schools and kindergartens still have parts of asbestos, most often in asbestos boards embedded inside them, is something that is terrible and that I think the City of Zagreb must be recovered urgently, unfortunately this is not happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149660	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149661	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras, for your remark or defacto and the questions you asked through that remark. Thus, calculating dates or attempts to be flexible simply cannot be done primarily because of this, once again, what the Republic of Croatia is all obligations and by international and other contracts takes over starting with the date 8.10.1991. As for the issues of roofs in the City of Zagreb, this is a question for the local self-government unit and the City Assembly of Zagreb, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149662	Comrade Bačić Branko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149663	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I congratulate you on proposing such a law that really corrects the injustice against all employees of Plobest against the legal solutions that are in 2011. enabled compensation for all or almost all workers, residents from Vranjica. I am pleased to hear that in answer to one question you have already said that the remaining seven workers who were not included in the compensation under the Law on the compensation of Salonite workers in the coming time will try to solve it, I think it would be good for that injustice to correct whether by amending that law or by some new legal solution, it remains on you, so I am glad that you have confirmed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149664	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149665	Thank you very much, Mr. Bačić, and I am pleased that, like most MPs, you support this bill, that the legal solutions from earlier periods have not been fair to all workers, in this particular case of Salonita, and in the next period we will analyse the legal framework and try to find a solution for these people as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149666	Now it's up to your colleague, Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149667	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, so you were talking about asbestos, I will ask you one question concerning the City of Zagreb, and as far as asbestos is concerned, it is a scrap of waste after which the mayor of Bandic gave up after the citizens of the Subsidents, Vrapča, you were not a minister at the time, so there were large protests in which I participated, but by changing this GUP, the scrapie of waste was re-opticated, the question has been raised among the other of the protesters whether in this scrap of construction waste will be crushed and asbestos, given that it was intended in the immediate vicinity of houses and open-minded type, what do you think of this project of construction waste in the urban area and close to houses, and will those scrapers be crushed and asbestos?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149668	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149669	Thank you very much, Mr. Sladolev, for your question, although it is not directly related to the subject. So these scraps aren't meant for the recovery of asbestos as material, that's the answer to the last part of your question. As regards their accommodation close to populated areas, units of local self-government as you know are responsible for waste management on, within their administrative lines and in this context and position, and ultimately their work must meet the conditions of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149670	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149671	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, two very short questions, it is one thing to know that asbestos is banned even though it is prohibited to import into the Republic of Russia and do you know that the Republic of Croatia needs to submit a detailed report in connection with Convention 162. International organisation of work that talks about taking care of asbestos. So, two very short questions, do you know in which amount asbestos is now imported into the Republic of Croatia even though it is prohibited and did you send a report to the International Labour Organization based on Convention 162? As far as Plobest's workers are concerned, I think you're doing wrong because you're hiding behind regulations, behind interpretations, but I think all those who have been exposed to asbestos should be compensated regardless. when the Republic of Croatia was created. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149672	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149673	Mr. Mrsić thank you for your question, and let me only briefly refer to hiding behind the rules, so this is the first time that such a regulation in the Republic of Croatia is passed and that a historical injustice is corrected against the workers of Plobesta d.d. and Plobesta d.d. In bankruptcy, I'd be glad it was settled at the time of your term of office, but it wasn't. As for the imports of asbestos into the Republic of Croatia, you know for yourself that this type of statistics is in charge of the Ministry of Economy, I don't have that information. As for our obligations to the International Labour Organization, I am familiar with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149674	And the last replica, dear colleague of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149675	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Minister, we are always pleased that the minister is with us when there is one topic in this area, I must admit that it is very rare, I expected that it might be yesterday because it was the topic of the Climate Change Act for which I appreciate that it is extremely important for Rh but what it is, there it is. We've been actually discussing the date all along, so I have a very simple question. The date is being discussed, I had the opportunity to hear that the majority of the ruling party is talking about the fact that it will be May 30th, some date that will be left, on October 8th, and I wonder if in this context you will change the law and still tie it to May 30th and not October 8, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149676	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149677	Ma'am. Mr. Taritash, thank you for your observations, but also on the matter, here's my failure yesterday, although it may not be a good enough excuse for the fact that the Council of Ministers of Energy was held in Brussels the day before yesterday and yesterday morning I attended the European Commission's Presidency. As far as this other observation of yours is concerned, indeed about those dates you're talking about and moving the date, I believe the Legislative Committee is in charge, I suppose, yes, certainly not the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, we are here to follow the acquis and to act accordingly, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149678	Okay. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? Comrade Maras, on behalf of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149679	Thank you very much. At its 45th session held on 5 June 2019, colleagues, the Working Committee, the pension system and the social partnership of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on compensation for the workers of the company Plobest d.d., P.Z. No. 642. The Committee discussed that act as a home working body and pointed out the problem of Plobest d.d. in the opening statement by the proposing representative. and the production of asbestos products and that asbestos problems are regulated by several different specific rules and in order to provide for workers who were exposed to asbestos during work in the Republic of Croatia, the 2007 Law on the Conditions for Getting Old Pensions, the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers of professionally exposed asbestos and the Law on the compensation of workers of professionally exposed asbestos. Since the above-mentioned package of laws on the care of workers who were exposed to asbestos during work in the Republic of Croatia has not found a solution to the issue of compensation of workers exposed to asbestos in the long term, this proposal will deprive 510 workers in the period 8 October '91. until 21 October 2002, who were employed in the company due to the multi-year asbestos exposure. As the start of the reference period, a date for the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia was set on 8 October '91. A year. Workers of the company Plobest and Plobest d.d. the amount of the compensation will be paid in the bankruptcy period of 3 years in such a way that by the end of 2019 the amount of 73 000, 2020 and 2021 will also be paid as well. For example, compensation due to the multi-annual exposure total of 219 000 kuna per worker if the worker spent 5 years working in the companies concerned. In the debate, board members and I see that this is also the case in these replicas when proposing the law, supported the adoption of this law, but they suggested that the applicant consider the start of a reference period of 8. Ten. In 1991, as well as the length of 5 years of asbestos exposure. Since the company had done business before Independence Day, the former workers had been exposed to asbestos for more than 10 years, and they proposed by law have no right to compensation nor those who were in a working relationship of 8. Ten. 1991 to 2002, but less than 5 years. Also, an opinion has been given to deeming all workers working for 5 years in the company asbestos board Plobest d.d. without reference period. So, it was one of the fundamental remarks on the representatives of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership, and after the debate was held, the Committee unanimously voted 8 votes "for", decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion, that the proposal for a Law on the compensation of Plobest d.d., P.Z. No. 642, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149680	All right, now we're opening a debate and the first is the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, Honored counterparts of Grmoja and colleagues of Bulj after him, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149681	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. So what I did about five months ago. asked as a parliamentary question and to what I did not get to say one concrete answer, this is a question of compensation for all workers without this reference period or without taking this date on 8 October, it does not make any sense, especially if it is taken into account that the Minister himself called in response that '88. concluded that only those workers who have worked for 5 years, here's a lot of doctors in the Parliament, I think that medicine has changed a lot since '88, so I should examine it and I think I'm going to damage all the workers, not only depending on this date when they worked, it means to defuse the workers who worked before this date but also workers who worked less than 5 years because we all know that we can't say that if someone worked I don't know, 4 years and 11 months, that he has no consequences and the one who worked for 5 years and more, that he has the consequences of having contact with asbestos. It doesn't make any sense, it should deprive the workers and most of the remarks that went by the workers towards us is that here in the Croatian Parliament we ask the Minister to change this until the second reading, if that is not the case, then of course we will go with the amendments. So MOST as a political option stands firm with the workers and asks for this to change until the second reading regardless of these arguments that do not stand and the minister himself cannot do so. Anyway, here's a colleague of mine said we'll be changing these national holidays soon. It cannot be taken as some single reference point. Anyone who had any contact with asbestos would have to be compensated. And here it will be our request. And the other thing I would like to touch in the law itself is therefore said at the end where the assessment of the funds is necessary for the implementation of the law that the obligation to provide compensation and the obligation to pay on the basis of the bill to assume the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. We're all aware of what's going on in the fund, there's an incarceration of personnel going on, there's a conflict of interest going on, I'd say huge debts to the fund itself, and we've also had a situation where an employee of the Mislav Kotarac Fund informed both the Prime Minister and the Minister of conflict of interest in the fund. But not only Mislav Kotarac, because we can justify the minister so we can say why he would react to everything sent by an employee, he may not have taken it seriously but he was more than 5 months ago, so Minister Coric himself, with a representative question from one representative, the president of the club of MPs, means my parliamentary question has been notified of everything. And when his colleague Bulj told him now, he said it was insinuations and pranks. Mr. Coric here is a parliamentary question sent to you by the President of the Parliament where he says: "The foundation of Article 140. I would like to refer the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to Mr Tomislav Ćorić, Minister of Environment and Energy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a representative issue," this is the 1.4.2019 year. "What will you do about doubting the conflict of interest and abuse of funds of the Environmental Protection Fund, energy efficiency as well as about the treatment and threats of the director of Dubravko Pogos Fund towards employees and, specifically, to the labour council representative Mislav Kotarac, what has Mr Kotarac also reported to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic?" So a specific question with specific names, it's all clear, it's not about any innuendo. And I think my colleague Bulj has asked a good question, and Mr. Posh's resignation is being announced today. I think that here all MPs, the public and the media should ask the question of the resignation of Minister Tomislav Ćoric. And if this isn't an insinuation, I'm handing you this parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149682	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149683	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. The workers of Plobest, of course, of course, also said that we can't set one date and someone was working before October 18, maybe by the exact date of October 18th, he finished his working life on October 17th, it's discrimination against people living in that space. So we can't make this law anti-discrimination, and I think the doctors who are here will agree. Because if someone worked until October 17, 1991, that's how we discriminate against our citizens. So I expect you to change that by the second reading of the minister. Of course I would point out here that it's time for the Ministry of Environment to protect the environment. As I warned you not in this case, it is similar with the workers of the Salonite here but in the case where I warned you also endanger health in the area, for example. The Black Mountains located in the hinterland of Zadar, i.e. You all see it when you take the highway, Black Hill where the European Court ruled that it is dangerous waste and no building material and now Croatia will have to pay the fine. I ask the minister, who will be responsible for the damages that we could pay our workers and these before 18 October and the workers from the Salonita before 18 October 1991 for the damages that Croatia will have to pay by virtue of the European Court ruling in the case of the Black Hill. So that's where people live, but yesterday I said it's a small place, that's, people, a very small number of people, so nobody cares about those people. And we have so many cases. So I ask you ministers in the case of the Black Mountains Croatia will have to pay damages based on the European Court's verdict, who is responsible for this? Who gives that responsibility. And by the way, here's the end of the story. That's why I came out because you said I was the one who was trying to trick you into insinuating. I asked you a specific question because yet the implementing body and the body that is very important, the Environmental Protection Fund, which should worry about protecting human health, protecting the environment, is that there are no harmful projects and endangering our environment. I asked you a question that five months ago, a parliamentary representative, in this case the president of the Nikola Grmoi Club, asked you a question in the case of the Environment Fund, Mr. Ponos and his situation in the case of this case, which has now come out, you've met but 5 months you haven't answered, met the prime minister. And now your colleague Grumoja has also given you a parliamentary question. Yesterday, and in business, we discussed it yesterday, business, the Rules of Procedure have the weight of the law, and business is set to respond within 30. So you're meeting the ministers. You didn't do anything. And here it's not just about the Director of the Environment Fund, it's about your responsibility, and you can't tell an agent or anyone else to insinuate. Here's a representative question that your colleague Grumo asked you, he introduced you to the problem at the Environment Fund, and he met the prime minister, so you didn't do anything, and a very important body. Even in this law, it's a very important body. As they deal with conflict of interest, fostering, primary matters, and not dealing with the things the law has set for them, or their role, and the most important role is to preserve the environment, human health. Therefore, once again I ask you, your responsibility and minimum responsibility both towards Parliament and the majority who chose you because you are familiar with the inaction in a very important portfolio you should resign. It's political hygiene, you know, and you didn't want to answer that parliamentary question for five months. And I repeat, let the President of the Parliament confirm if the Rules of Procedure have a weight, this is confirmed by the Constitutional Court, by the weight of the law. So you are demeaning this House, so you have demeaned the Croatian Parliament. Do not allow the executive power to belittle MPs regardless of whether they are from the opposition or position. The Rules of Procedure have the power of law either it is pointless this Assembly or we will boast members of the Government who do not wish to respond to the MPs allow this House to turn into what turns into what is not his role. We are the legislative authority, the government is the executive government, from the Parliament comes the government. I think that you, as Parliament president, should respond to this, not only to warn the minister of breaking the law because of non-response of questions, very important issues. And once again, I ask the ministers, you trick, you insinuate that I have insinuated you, and that I have mocked you. I didn't trick you, you're responsible for a case that happens in your portfolio where you're responsible, and it's not just enough to resign from the Director's office, but you should resign, and that would be for hygiene, for a number of reasons. For the first reason, you don't respect this House, it's less important, and the second thing is that you're familiar with what was going on in the Environment Fund, and you didn't do anything about it, because of what you did, you have to step down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149684	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149685	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I understand my colleague, Grmoja and Bulja, in their demands for criticism and the resignation of Minister Ćorić, because he knew five months about what his colleague Bulj said, they did hurt Article 232 and gave up a little of the topic. Although I say once again I understand that they are appealing to you for the protection of the Parliament and that fellow Coric steps down because he knew five months of this case that they had warned him, I still ask you to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149686	Thank you, colleague Maras. This was one of the better performances of yours, excellent, and you will earn a fine reminder because you deliberately violated the Rules of Procedure. You didn't give a good argument, you made fun of all of us sitting here. Thank you very much. Now a colleague called Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149687	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a ten-minute break to discuss and support the adoption of such a law allowing the compensation of 510 employees of the company's former employees, Plobest and Plobest d.d., in bankruptcy. That is what I would like to say when I listen to criticism coming that as chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, I held several thematic sessions at which I asked that this particular issue be put on the agenda of the Government, whose chairman was Mr. Zoran Milanovic. I must say that the resolute ministries and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare refused on several occasions our proposal to discuss this. And it didn't occur to them to come to a systematic solution to such a problem as it was made with the proposal of this minister and the proposal of this government. What was then said at our thematic sessions, which is that, in addition to the solution relating to employees and workers of “Plobest” to correct injustice against employees of the company “Salonit d.d.” in bankruptcy which was then passed by laws which were not the same at the time of the HDZ government, along the way be told, which were not fully compensated because, through the procedure of compensation of employees, it was not until the end of a clear formulation of whether they were referring to those who at the time the law was passed were not alive so that their widows could not be compensated or those who, after the request had died before the realisation itself, had already asked to be resolved in the reply to the Minister. In order to solve this problem that is not by any law until the end, I suggest we take a break so that we can consult within the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149688	Okay. The apartment is approved by 10:30, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149689	Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, the break is over, so let's get back to work and now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Tomislav Coric, will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149690	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, academic Rainer. So let me briefly just refer to Mr. Bulj and Mr. Grumoje's presentation of representatives of the Assembly Club. Mr Bulj, you, or your colleague in your presentation, questioned the date or time from which the former employees of Plobest d.d. were compensated. i.e. Plobest d.d. in bankruptcy, I will repeat once again, such a time treatment or date 8.10.1991. as a rule, the legal term or legal date in respect of which the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under different contracts begin, and in this context, that time limit is, as such, chosen for this law. As far as your allegations concerning the black hill are concerned, you have also referred to that moment even though it is not the subject of our today's conversation here in the context of the law being presented, just let the European Court of Justice in no way financially penalized the Republic of Croatia, that is one moment you should bear in mind, the other is the fact that the cost that lies in the area of the Black Mountain by several bodies or, above all, the basis of expertise from the Mining Geological Faculty has been declared mineral raw material and, in this context, the Republic has treated it as such and is still being treated. The further solution to this case will depend first and foremost on actions based on these judgments on the one hand, and on the other hand also on the opinions of the relevant bodies on the subject. As regards your referencing to my actions or not, and in the context of Mr. Grumoje's letter of 1 April this year, Mr. Grumoja referred the question to the Ministry on 1 April this year, this letter was received on 3 April 2019, based on this letter, was requested by Mr. Ponoš, Director of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, who delivered his statement on 11 April 2019, on the basis of this letter on 3 May 2019. The Ministry of Environmental Protection addressed a proposal for a response to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, on this issue, the Ministry of Environment and Energy has taken all the necessary actions. I would no longer refer since, as I said at the very beginning, our present subject of the Law on the compensation of workers Plobest d.d. i.e. Plobesta d.d. In bankruptcy, I'd go back on the subject, I believe it's a law that corrects a decades-old injustice against these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149691	Thank you very much. Here comes the replica, absolutely the first, respected representative of the Bulj and before the minister started speaking, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149692	Thank you very much. Ministers, as far as the law is concerned, he has positive solutions for workers who have suffered asbestos and, of course, who have worked for more than 5 years, but the fact that he lived in the area before 11 October and that workers worked on October 18, '91, so we... In the first reading, you see the possibility that there are no restrictions for workers who have previously worked, it is a obligation for our citizens, and I believe that this would solve the trial until the second reading, if we do not give the amendment on behalf of the Most Club, and as far as the issue is concerned, a business article. 142. The ministry is obliged to answer the parliamentary representative's question within 30 days, the Rules of Procedure have the power of law and I do not think it is enough for the Director to resign from the Environment Fund, he did so today, but you are responsible for eating until today's representative who asked the question, who warned you, did not get an answer. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You should. Resigned, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149693	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak, please welcome I've already given my colleague my word, and then here's when she's done. [[/Intruder: Have you already given a word to her?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149694	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers with Associates, we have before us a proposal for a Law on the Compensation of Workers of Plobest d.d. In GLAS, we appreciate every effort that is trying to help our citizens, we appreciate every effort that is trying to solve certain injustices, and in this sense we will first read and support this law for the simple reason that it is good to begin to solve it. Likewise, we absolutely do not want to participate in any debate, in any way where it tries to discuss who did no more. This government or it rules. Who should no longer have done, this government or its government. The time has come to get rid of it. Likewise, the legal proposals should not be viewed in a way that they are carved into stone, so we have now carved into stone and there is no way to change it and that is how it should be. The two topics that have been opened about this law are the topic which is the starting point and which is the starting date and whether it should continue, whether it is possible and something that needs to be discussed between the first and second readings and thus further efforts by the ministry to see if it is really possible to extend that deadline. And the second topic is the five-year limit, or work of five years. How did some other countries handle it? Whether or not there's a possibility, it's some kind of effort that needs to be made between the first and second readings, really, by the Resort Ministry, that in the second reading, if possible, we get an improvement of this law. Asbesto is a serious subject. Asbesto is a serious topic of all countries. Otherwise, I read this in the context of the law we had yesterday, yesterday we will have for the first time Croatia will have a law that will regulate climate change. In addition, there is a strategy in the public debate and it would be good to have this strategy brought forward as soon as possible because, according to the latest information I saw on the EU website yesterday, only two countries have not yet adopted the strategy on climate change, one of them is Croatia and it would be good to have it resolved there. But I'll be back on the asbestos theme. When we discuss asbestos... I'll let my colleagues get together, I don't mind you talking, but you're distracting me a little bit, so here, even though I can concentrate perfectly, you're distracting me a little bit. All right. When it comes to asbestos, asbestos should be thought in three steps. One step is where asbestos was produced, another step is the way asbestos is installed and the third step is the way asbestos is taken care of. The first step is asbestos, which in front of... I'm not that strict. The first step is that asbestos produced in factories where it really is the result of workers working with it. You must know that the biggest swing in the construction industry, or especially related to construction in Croatia, was in the 1970s and 80s and 90s of the last century, or better said in the 80s there since 1971 and beyond, when people had a need, especially when it came to areas by the sea between the two tourist seasons, they did something. Between these two tourist seasons, something was made to make it the fastest, cheapest, and there was really asbestos as building material used on really large quantities, and this is the consequence today that you have in a series of family homes still having asbestos used on the roofs, that we still have asbestos used in sewers and that is the warning that our citizens and that they take care of it and change it. But what's much bigger is when you have asbestos on the facilities of public procurement. There was also mentioned by colleagues, City of Zagreb, where asbestos is at kindergartens and schools, it is something that should be taken into account and it is a project that should really be done as quickly as possible, i.e. really not let that happen. And the third thing that has to do with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which has to do with the state level, which is when asbestos becomes waste. It's something we need to take care of. It's something to really control because the next threat of asbestos is at that point. So it's a good thing we don't really experience people as potatoes. It's good that through this law we're trying to get rid of it, it's good that we have this law, it's good that we have that effort, and what I said at the outset, we expect a part of it to be solved between the two readings. In his last sentence when the minister spoke about the law there, he mentioned in his last sentence that all options or damages to workers would go through the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency. The last two days have been full of mouths to everyone and are also full of mouths and media of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. I'm not happy about it, I have to admit that I'm sad about it for the simple reason that this fund should be filled with the media in the way the fund works. What did the fund do for our citizens? How much money from the fund went to household appliances, to buy cars, to energy efficiency of family homes, that's what this fund should talk about. To be fair to the end, stories with the Energy Efficiency Fund and environmental protection and problems that have not been in the fund since yesterday. In another government there was another director of the Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund in front of the ministry, in which at that time, a large forest was created for the fund, a terrible lot of cars came. I worked at that ministry back then, and of course, as I always have maybe a little too long language I said, and there are two things why these big cars came here. One thing, then, was, if you remember correctly, the first Turkish soap opera whose main character was Shecherezada. I said either she came to visit Shecherezad at the Ministry or she's gonna arrest someone. Unfortunately, this was different and someone was arrested. So that story with the fund isn't yesterday, but, and that's why I'm sad about it all together. It is the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. It's not a financial institution. The fund manager can't get out and say I have 500 million in the fund, I have a billion, and that's the minister's responsibility. Responsibilities of inaction. That all the money that was in the fund was supposed to be spent. That money was supposed to feel our citizens, that money was supposed to feel our citizens on projects. I'm not looking at the minister's responsibility, of course I'm looking at the director who showed himself what he's like, he tells you, every word he says shows what he's like, let him talk, and everyone will show up. So, the inaction that didn't remove the fund manager, except for that characteristic trait that everyone, who we heard, was treating the fund as a financial institution that collects money. The fund is something that our citizens need to see benefit. So, at this moment in the fund, the money spent on the energy efficiency of family homes where we cannot withdraw funds related to the EU, that the fund did not do what it did and said, I will conduct public procurement for tanks for separate collection of waste, but had a method to which, the municipalities and cities would do so, and the fund would co-finance. Those who, between you or your fellow parliamentary representatives who are chiefs and mayors, know what the problem is and who have it. So that's the fund's problem. Of course, there's no magic wand to solve, but it's something to take care of, and it needs to be solved. A sin of indemnity is a serious sin. It's not the fund's purpose to raise money, and I don't know interest, it's the fund's purpose to work. To make citizens feel what they're making of that money, which is their benefit and what they can do. And I'm going back to that sentence and that's actually how you react to climate change. To give citizens subsidies, to really have home appliances that are much more energy-efficient, to drive cars without being, to keep Croatia from being a cemetery of cars that are no longer driving in the EU, but of course the fund will at this time cause a big debate and a good debate and to finally shed light on what the problem is, to finally return to the topic of law. We are absolutely sure that it is good that this law has come, that we should have it in two readings and that the ministry hears the remarks that have been shown on the boards, and we also speak from this pay phone. And what we all have to remember behind this is living people, behind this is living fate, behind this is families that have a lasting consequence because someone has done their job fairly and responsibly, and by chance he's doing a job at a factory where he has consequences for asbestos. And so, people aren't potatoes, so don't let us just push people out of a basket in a basket. And beyond that, there are human fates, families stand, and it's good that it is and it's good that the state in this way shows empathy and says that, you lost your health not because it was your decision but because you had a chance to work and there were no 100 factories in which you can work, there were several and the state solves it this way. That I can better and expect the ministry to make one more effort between the first and second readings and see if this is what we're discussing can be incorporated into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149695	Thank you very much. Now the break was requested by the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149696	Thank you, Vice President. I am looking for a break after an incredible statement by the Minister of Environmental Protection that he had taken everything he had to take as minister on April 1st and that 3.5 if I had caught the date correctly, he had sent a response to my representative's question about the scandal at the Environmental Protection Fund, where I also warned the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister that there were irregularities there, but that there were threats from the Director of the Environmental Protection Fund to the employee, or the employee of the Mislav Kotarc Fund. If what the minister said is true, it would mean that the government of the Republic of Croatia, or the prime minister of the government, has kept an answer to my parliamentary question so as not to endanger the stability of the coalition with the Croatian People's Party, with the HNS showing how this commercial majority works. I call on the entire public and the media who are now monitoring this Croatian Parliament's reassurance to ask Prime Minister Plenkovic an urgent question, I don't know how this courage of Minister Coric puts the prime minister in these problems as he has now done, but I think it has decided that it is more important to save his own skin. Here, I'm looking for a break to discuss within our club what we could now hear from Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149697	Of course I'll take a break. I'll see you again in 11 and 1 minute. It's 10.52 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149698	All right, we're going to continue the club debate. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.53 HOURS]] The committee's reporters are already... All right, well, Mr Miranda Mrsic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry there is no minister, but apparently the minister made a mistake when he admitted today that in the government it lasted until May 5th and here, which the government agreed on a lot of things about this report and on the other hand I'm sorry that we spent most of the discussion on the Mosquito and environmental protection, so in the part that is related to the... but what I would like to stress here is that the issue of this asbestos in Croatia is something that is a very big problem, we see only the tip of the ice, and that the things that have been happening in the past will long feel in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although asbestos is completely banned in the EU and other countries, Pandora's box of accumulated problems is just opening up. Legal, economic and medical prices of intensive asbestos production in the '70s and 80s last century are fees with a delay. Namely, the development of lung diseases that causes asbestos most often occurs after 30 years and more of the first contact with asbestos dust, so it is just the beginning of the 3rd millennium time when it will come to the collection of asbestos exposure. According to U.S. Center for Disease Control, over 100,000 Americans will die in the next 10 years due to past year's asbestos exposure. Over 400,000 deaths are expected in Europe over the next 30 years due to mesothelioma and lung cancer. Scientists estimate that the total number of human victims will soon be around 10 million if asbestos production is not banned in all countries. The epidemic of asbestos mortality is followed by many judicial processes, damage claims, the establishment of asbestos associations, company bankruptcy and insurance companies, and we are not far from it. Croatia has been exposed to asbestos for many years, and just to point out what the problem is, not only the exposure to asbestos fibers but the inhalation of asbestos dust is, it can also be seen from what is now happening in America after the collapse of the Twins. By destroying these buildings, the surrounding area was contaminated with several dozen tons of asbestos dust expelled from the installation and construction of buildings. Doctors of the medical center... And... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those in charge of this case have discovered a large number of respiratory disorders associated with the inhalation of asbestos dust in firefighters and rescuers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's probably the first symptoms, the beginning of slow but progressive development of asbestos and lung cancer. Unfortunately, among the examples of inappropriate production and storage of asbestos are plants, plant Salonite and Plobest what has been happening in Croatia for years. In the last 10 years of asbestos and lung cancer, about 400 workers of the factory were ill, and Salonite and Plobest were closed in Plots. I'd like to quote these to my colleague, Jadranka Tocilj, from the medical hospital Split's lung department, who says very clearly. Many young people from 12-25 years old from Split, Solin, Sinj, Klis, Brač, Hvar, the Neretva Valley has lung damage and signs of pulmonary disease. We think that's the reason he's exposed to the asbestos dust he's spreading... Instead of clean sea air, residents of the Split area and the Neretvan Valley, breathe asbestos dust, and instead of closing, isolation and rehabilitation, Croatia continues to import asbestos from Russia and that is also worrying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite the fact that in 2006, by joining the EU, during EU accession, we banned asbestos imports, it is still being imported, most often from Ukraine and Russia. According to some data, after entering the EU, we introduced more than 100 tonnes of asbestos products, which is a brake for roofs, pipes and various other materials. The final seal of what is happening in Croatia is the fact that our services have not been able to prevent even importing 75 kilograms so-called. Blue asbestos, infamous and for decades it has been considered to be the most toxic existing mineral in nature, not that imports are not prevented, but neatly declared and decorated, and the documentation available to the media also contains data that no consignment is required for the permission of the competent services. Here's the information we heard from the minister, so the environment minister said he has no idea how much asbestos was imported into the Republic of Croatia, which is devastating for the Minister of Environmental Protection, and it's also taxed for the Republic of Croatia because it's obvious that asbestos continues to enter the Republic. When this law was passed in government, then Prime Minister Plenkovic said, I quote, it is a law that can be said to change the lives of workers, both cynical and unworthy. If they spent 5 years in the workplace, 510 former Plobest workers from Plobest should receive 219.000,00 kn for being exposed to asbestos and that is the salary for their dying, that is the proposal of the Law on the compensation of Plobest Workers. The law seeks to address the problem created by the adoption of the Law on the Compensation of Workers of Salonita Vranjic in 2010 which did not cover these workers and that is something the HDZ owes these workers and that is something that is good that has been done there. However, the problem was not resolved until the end because the reference date for the compensation of workers was set on 21 October 2002, so the day before the opening of Novi Plobest and the day when the new Croatian state was recognised in the world. What was the basic question was the date when the Croatian country was created relevant for assessing whether someone had the right to compensation or not. The amount will be paid to workers if they worked in the company for 5 years. in the period from 8.10.1991. until 21. 10.2002. Are the dates that you can determine if someone got asbestos for breathing dust or if it's something that I don't understand why the ministry went that way. The apology that this is legally impossible because of the sequence and not the sequence I note that the Republic of Croatia is a legal, legal and legal follow-up of the former Socialist Republic of Croatia and that it is obliged to take care of the workers who have been exposed to asbestos. To appeal to the 1988 document is a little cynical is it obvious that this document justifies the law itself, here I am, if they don't have colleagues from the ministry, I will give them an article written by our doctor. Zavalić and Ana Bogadi Share from the Institute of Medical Research, Criteria for the recognition of professional asbestos of pulmonary parenchym and pleura. It reads very clearly here and it says that whoever is exposed to asbestos for at least 6 months, who is breathing dust, has a high risk of the development of asbestos and then the resulting mesothelioma of which there is no cure, of which is dying and there is, there is what I wonder what the ministry is going to do this way. This bill has caused a huge avalanche of dissatisfaction and indignation among many people, workers who worked in Plots, members of the family of former employees, and a panel company not covered by this proposal. Arbitrally putting on a date is medically wrong, immorally, something that will lead to a return that some people who have the right to do so, and the Republic owes it to all those who are exposed to asbestos to be defiled. I'm also asking questions here and other workers, so workers who work in shipyards, who were also exposed to asbestos. And again, the exposure to asbestos, the sighing of asbestos dust in a large percentage after 15 or 20 years. may lead to development of asbestos, lung and mesothelioma. The indignation seen in Ploča after this law was passed, more people contacted me because in the Government of Zoran Milanovic we prepared a comprehensive law on asbestos that remained in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, nor did Minister Šikic, nor Minister Ćorić, nor did Minister Pavić remember to refer to this bill and that we get finally one law on asbestos that would solve and the issue of resolving asbestos that is now around us. What this law does not solve is those workers who were working before the beginning of the '90s, but apparently this law suggests that they were working at the wrong time, that they were working in another country and what I am personally doing, and I hope that Minister Coric will accept it too is going to compensate all workers because this is how it turns out that one country is a mother and another mother. This law also makes an injustice against asbestos workers who spent their working life in a company that later came from Plobest and who, depending on the degree and those they managed to experience, received 30 to 90 thousand kuna. We have a situation with this law that someone who's been missing for a few months until these famous five years, someone for a few weeks, and someone who won't get their promised or legally anticipated compensation. You can imagine how these people feel. There are still a lot of questions, I hope that the legislator will refer to this very good article because what are the criteria that judge that exactly 510 people will be compensated for being exposed to asbestos, which are criteria, which are the conditions for someone getting compensation and someone not getting it. Very vaguely from this bill. Again, the waist speaks very clearly, the exposure of asbestos dust, the fibers of asbestos leads you to have a great chance even if you smoke along with it, you have a great chance of getting lung cancer and mesothelioma pleura. This law is a compensation to those who are on the road for which there is no return. When you get mesothelioma, then no therapy, no radiation can help you, nor can you prevent it anymore because you breathed asbestos powder or microfibre asbestos. And then it is fair by this law that all those in Croatia who are neither guilty nor in debt work in places where there has been asbestos. And this is a warning for us to get out of Croatia completely asbestos, to resuscitate it and to find funds for the state and the Environmental Protection Fund to completely remove asbestos from Croatia and to be a Croatian country without asbestos. Asbesto's got a lot on us. The question that he's not even in this assembly, that I'm not talking about schools, kindergartens, that I'm not talking about asbestos roofs, pipes, there's a lot of things about us that we haven't done anything about, and this is a warning because breathing dust and microfibres of asbestos is a safe way to die. And I hope Minister Coric will listen to this proposal that all workers will receive compensation regardless of when they worked and at what time, and here I will give the minister this article to have... It's 1995. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149700	Thank you. Now, in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mrs. Juričev Martinchev, and then I assume Mr. Bacic, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149701	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues of this Proposal for a Law on the Compensation of Workers of Plobest d.d. In the first reading, the HDZ Club will support. It is commendable that this law will enable 510 workers to be compensated for their years of asbestos exposure, which from 8 October 1991 to 21 October 2002 were employed by the company Plobest d.d. and Plobest d.d. in bankruptcy due to years of asbestos exposure. The basic activity of Plobest d.d. has been production of asbestos products, and the asbestos problem has been regulated by several different specific regulations. In order to take care of workers who were professionally exposed to asbestos during work in the Republic of Croatia in early August 2007, a package of laws was passed. Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, then the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos and the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. These laws addressed issues for the exercise of age pension rights under favourable conditions, health supervision and diagnostics, and the right to compensation of workers suffering from occupational illness due to asbestos exposure. By supplementing the Law on the Conditions for Getting Old Retirement of Workers Professionally Exposured to asbestos since January 2010, a category of workers who have suffered from asbestos disease during their work and the disease has been established by a solution to recognise the professional disease of HZZO has also been enabled to exercise the right to age pension under favourable conditions and thus increased pension by 26%. Since that law on the care of workers working in the Republic of Croatia has not addressed the issue of compensation for workers who have been exposed to harmful activities in the long term, it is precisely this law that has been proposed. As a start of the reference period, the date of declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia on 8 October 1991 was set at the end of 21 October 2002 and the day before the opening of Novi Plobest d.o.o. which isn't registered to work with asbestos. Workers of the company Plobest d.d. and Plobest d.d. The amount of the compensation will be paid in a routing manner, in a three-year manner, by the end of 2019, to pay an amount of 73,000 kuna, also in 2020 again 73,000 kuna and by the end of 2021, the same amount due to the multi-year exposure of asbestos or the total amount per worker would be 219,000 kuna if the worker had spent 5 years in the companies concerned or his successor. At least 5 years spent working or exposure to asbestos is the time of exposure during time, for possible occurrence of the disease. The obligation to provide the funds for the payment of the compensation as well as the payment obligation shall be assumed by the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund. We can freely say that this law continued to provide workers who during work in the Republic of Croatia were professionally exposed to asbestos. Under the professional exposure of asbestos, direct exposure is considered due to the operation of asbestos products as well as indirect exposure due to the work of a person who used the same material in its production. The asbestos was used mostly from the late '70s to the early '90s. It was popular as construction material used by almost all construction companies, whether used to cover roofs, whether as a good thermal insulator or often when making facades or installing a pipe into a water system. Asbestos were on ships and firefighters dressed in asbestos suits to protect themselves from fires, etc. Asbesto was for a while a delicacy of material, even Vasco Lipovac used asbestos on the molds because the asbestos leaves could bend over the curved surface of the ball and make famous sculptures. So it's not people's fault that they dealt with asbestos, it's the wrong countries of the economy that allowed them to use it. Unfortunately, then, there was no public warning of asbestos damage caused by lung cancer and a series of other respiratory diseases. The specificities of asbestos exposure are contained in the fact that the signs of disease as a consequence of the health of asbestos workers generally occur significantly later, 10 to 20 years after inhaling asbestos particles. The negative effects of asbestos on health were well - known to the ancient Egyptians who wrapped Pharaoh’s mummies in asbestos because of the longevity and old Romans whose recommendation was never to buy slaves who worked with asbestos with reason that they often died young. Since 14 February 2006, it is completely prohibited to put on the market or use asbestos fibers and then problems are being solved for workers professionally exposed to asbestos. Here we can withdraw the parallel with the Law on the Compensation of Workers of the company Salonit d. d. in bankruptcy from Vranjic voted in this High House in July 2011. This bill addressed problems related to the compensation of workers who, as a result of the ban on the use of asbestos, were left without a job. As a result of the ban on working with asbestos fibers, it became necessary to find a solution for 170 company workers to pay the corresponding compensation. The government of the Republic of Croatia, modelling EU Member States using asbestos in the technological process, has damaged workers who have lost their jobs since 14 February 2006 when the work and use of asbestos fibers has been completely banned in Croatia. Workers found working relationship of the company Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy from 14 February 2006, it was paid for the compensation of the flat-rate fee during 2 years, until the end of 2011, for each worker of 109 500 kuna, by the end of June 2012, 54 750 and by the end of 2012 54 750 kuna. On behalf of job compensation, the total amount that each worker then received was 219 000 kuna. For all of these reasons, this law considers the HDZ Club to be extremely important and valuable and will therefore support this proposal for a law on compensation for the workers of Plobest d.d. company, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149702	We're moving on to the next club of SDP representatives, Mr. Arsen Bauk will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149703	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected ministers with their associates. In the first reading, the SDP representative club will support this bill, we support its intention and basic intensity, which is to deprive workers who have been long-term exposed to asbestos. It is quite ungrateful to talk about such a law and to make alternative proposals because it might be an impression that we are also opposed to the basic intention, so I would like to point out once again that we support the fundamental intention of this law. The law is relatively short, there are only 7 articles of which two transitional ones remain open 2 to 3 issues which should be further discussed until the second reading, I hope that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will also get an explanation for the possible rejection of certain proposals. First, in Art. 2 paragraph 1 is about who has the right. Therefore, it is said that the right is recognised to the worker who was in a working relationship with Plobest from 8 October 1991 to 21 October 2002 and who, for at least 5 years in the same companies, worked on asbestos or his successor. So the worker, he wasn't exposed to the heir, he was talking about who he was going to get. Therefore, as regards the proposal itself, it is evident in the assessment of the state of reference of the applicant to the harmfulness of asbestos and I would not now want to enter into discussions that are occasionally and conveniently guided by the state holidays by the date as such, I would probably be content with any date because I am not inclined to interpret that the exposure to asbestos and its harmfulness was less before 8 October '91. And that's why those who worked before in Plobest should be exempt from the right to compensation. So I suggest that the right to compensation is not defined by dates, but by expanding the circle of those who have the right to compensation, whatever the date, whatever the duration of their working relationship. Article 3 discusses the amount of compensation, so it is somewhere less than 30 thousand euros, 219 thousand kuna in three wars, and I don't think it's the most just one. So someone who worked six years from which he worked a year and a half before '91, and four and a half years after October 8 has no right to be compensated for what it says, which is not the most just thing, and on the other hand, you're either setting a limit or you're going to get a full amount or you're not going to get anything that isn't fair either, if not for those people who miss a day, two or five, or who have been working in the wrong dates, so they've been working since '90. '95. For example, they have four years after this date. I therefore call on the promoter to find a compromise solution to pay one part of this full sum and workers who have worked less or who have worked in the wrong dates. Now let the ministry find the best way to establish a fair relationship between workers' rights. Of course, the fact is that then we can talk about it not being exposed to asbestos for ten years and six years anyway, so there's some kind of more just solution to that than you suggested. And this solution you've suggested is certainly more just than no one gets anything. So this is a proposal for one improvement. Since you stated in the very explanation that around 510 workers are working, then it is quite certain that the state bodies already have a list of those workers, so I do not see the need to ask once more of the rights recognition funds if the state bodies already have their list. Article 2 states that the worker will apply for compensation to the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, or I suppose it can be submitted by the successor in this regard, so that I would suggest that it be clarified in Article 2, but I do not think that the application should be submitted at all. If you have a list of 510 people then you know who these people are, then you should write them solutions, and the one who doesn't get a solution, and he thinks he's got the right to prove it, or he'll ask for it, so the procedure will determine whether there's a right. So I would suggest to the Proposer or that the numbers that are spoken of, which is 510 a little bit round, so let him say about 500 because if it says exactly 510 then it is already clear from the reasons that the state authorities know about which workers he is working with and there is no need for them to further prove something else now, ask etc. This may be some that are not listed here, so it will prove that they belong to this group, or maybe this number is so indicative, and even if it is framed, so put it on. As far as the amount of compensation is concerned, of course, it depends on the possibilities of the State. If the law states that the implementation of this law will require 37 million and 230 thousand kuna for 2019, if it says so, it is twice as much in three years, or this is the total amount, but it is obvious that the promoters know how much it will cost, so that this amount, which is planned for that purpose and planned by further clarification of Articles 2 and 3 of this law, is more justly distributed and then someone gets less and perhaps more based on some criteria. This is just a criterion because you've worked for five years and worked since '91. until 2002. If the increase or expansion of that time period was a major blow to the budget, it would not cost 30 million but 60 million or 80 million, then it would be an argument. It may be an argument for the debate, but if the argument is just that, as the president would say earlier, it can breathe asbestos, and now it can't breathe asbestos, then it's not a good enough argument. So here we're talking about health and social criteria and for the people who worked downstairs, they worked before October 8, '91. as it says, either 30 May and 26.6., whatever date is taken. I therefore propose to the Ministry that by the second reading consider the remarks and proposals I made on behalf of the club, and of course the club will support this law in its first reading. In its explanation and assessment of the situation, the applicant has therefore made a very detailed assessment of the situation and explained why the law should be passed. It is also a fact that at this point we also have the law on conditions for obtaining the right of age pension of workers of professionally exposed asbestos since 2007 and the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers of professional asbestos from 2007 and the Law on the compensation of workers of professional asbestos from 2007, and we have 2011. Law on the compensation of the company’s workers, Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy from Vranjica where, therefore, the right to compensation for 170 workers found in working relationship in Salonita d.d. In bankruptcy, Vranjic. However, it is likely that the criteria that have been applied to these workers are not exactly in line with these, perhaps they are, should also be seen and seen whether these criteria are more appropriate for this law or not. So let me conclude, we hope that in the second reading of this illogicality, we will be able to support it in another reading, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149704	Thank you. Now, we move on to individual debates, it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149705	Thank you very much. This Law on the compensation of workers of Plobest, I believe that in this first one, it is a good thing that two readings are going on, that in this first reading, all the suggestions that we are going to make, I believe, because of the workers, because of the compensation of those people who deserve it, that the government will accept that. that the ministry will accept if simply these people have the right to do so, is this what they have actually experienced in working with asbestos of various diseases, meaning what the work with asbestos brings. So I think that all the proposals that are here, they were quite constructive of all colleagues and representation clubs, I believe, is here, so the key to what we said and at first the problem is time i.e. When the workers' compensation starts, it's October 18, '91. And that's where you bring in a number of questionnaires, and here's an example of what if a man doesn't have 5 years. '94. late or '95. that he's 4 years old. And nine months, so we brought in this man who may have been at a workplace where he's more at risk of asbestos and asbestos disease, so I think the triba categorizes both those who were less time and less of a working age within those 5 years. Because, simply, people have put their health at risk with this action and working with asbestos. So that's, that's two key problems, the date of the start of the damage, so that's where we discriminate against people who used to work, so it can happen that man worked until '91. on this date on 18.11. that he worked 36. and 4 years. was working until this date, so the whole working life man had spent in, worked until '94. In, say, working at Plobest and at the moment we got what we got, we got a man at 40. which will not be compensated if no condition meets, nor this 5 years, nor this date which is '91. Marked as a term of compensation. I think that this tribal would also deprive those people of the same nature if a man worked 40 years, and in the Republic of Croatia for four years, 11 months and 29 days, we brought this man into such a difficult situation, unfair, discriminatory, yet this worker created good, new value, he was a worker, so I think that the government should consider, however, that the categorization of compensation is within these 5 years. who have been working since the Republic of Croatia, but also since the date that is good, but these are all our citizens, no matter what time and period they have done, and they and their families deserve it, that man is still 40 years old. worked in that place. I've been called by a man from Kliss, says he worked until 2002, an example I speak in Salonita, we know that the Law on Salonita is. Reimbursement of Salonite workers received in 2011 and that he was not, for example, compensated if he was in 2002. After 20 years of internships approached the second company, only those who were on the company list by 2006 were compensated when they went bankrupt. Therefore, we must consider both this case and the irregularity. The injustices caused by the Law on, in the Salonita, the compensation of the workers of Salonite in Vranjic is given by the salt pool by a lot of workers and behind, of course, by the Dalmatian Zagora, who have the consequences of working in Salonita, similar to in Plobest, of course the Salonite was resolved by that law, however, there is clearly discrimination. Which is why this happened, that triba check that the man who worked until 2002, went to another company, so he worked only in the RH 12. beyond that framework, meaning the trial should also move towards amendments to the Salonite Act at the Vranjic factory. For what? Because of what if this is credible and true, the man has introduced himself and I believe, I have no reason not to believe him, the man is from Kliss, so he has a Salonite employee who worked, and they're not compensated, they weren't on the list when she went bankrupt in 2006. And he didn't exercise his right because he went away a few years ago to work at another company. So, we have different problems, we have, we have to reduce absolute discrimination, amounting to 37 million kuna per year, examples of Plobest and these 200, 30 thousand Euros, let's say that they get compensation, I don't see any reason not to get any of these people from the group that meet even these conditions, let's say in the Salonite, and they won't get it right. The law, of course, is that we support it and, of course, we're going to give some amendments but believing in the second reading that you're going to find a categorization model, it won't take much correction inside of this because we just have to avoid discrimination here. I know that the Environment Fund has as much resources as it does but we certainly can't do injustice, we have to do everything here to do that in this law of compensation for workers who are working with asbestos, increased the number of diseases at a large level, we need to know not only that workers are at risk in these companies but also people who were around these companies, that there are a lot of people who have been in contact with a working relationship but have had the impression that they have suffered from asbestos and that we should now be able to tell them that they're just bounds of people who were working before 8 October 1991, I think that there's been discrimination against these people and this huge, huge discrimination, I don't think that we can say that Croatia has assumed obligations from that date before, so these are the same people who worked until that time and after. Therefore, I think that here we must be obliged to these people who have done these difficult jobs, in difficult conditions, and therefore once again, I would ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of us MPs and, above all, the government which is the most relevant government, which has proposed the law, to find the opportunity to rejuvenate all people by the next reading because I don't believe that the man who worked and four years, who didn't deserve, that he wasn't threatened, might have worked in a more difficult place. Closer to touching, greater contact with asbestos than someone who's been 10 years old, for example, not fashion I'm doing it now... There are people who are more professional and competent, but I know because we've had a certain number of people working in the Cetina area, too, in Salonita, like this Law on Plobest, so the subject is the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that this law is going to correct that injustice against these people but if we do, if this law is passed and it is going in 2 readings, that it should go in this direction that every worker should exercise that right regardless of the date, of course the amount cannot be the same after years, there must be some criteria, but also before that date when this compensation is set, to achieve the right and those within 5 years, that they too have been eligible but here, I can check and I will give you the name of the man to you, that you refer to both the fund and in some way to get rid of the people who are relevant because the examples in the Salonita company worked until 2006 and they weren't on the list when it was bankruptcy, they worked for 20 years and they didn't exercise that right, whether we should go to the amendments of the Law on the Salonita, on the compensation of the workers of the company of Saloniti Vranjic, so that they were also to align this and to make them in the shortest way that they can make their lives, so that they can't be settled, that they can't be settled, and that they can't be made by the people, that they can make them, and that they can't change in their lives, and that they can't they can't they can't be changed. And those who worked before their own RH in Plobest, to exercise the right and those who are later and also in Salonita and other companies, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149706	Two replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr Miranda Mrssic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149707	Comrade Bulj, you are absolutely right that this is discrimination by date, that when you were employed, then you get compensation, if you were in the former Yugoslavia, you don't get it, and if you're in the newer Croatia, then you get it, and that's something that's bad, and HDZ is doing the same thing it did in 2010 with that law on the compensation of workers in Salonita. However, instead of this law, it was necessary to pass a law on asbestos that should compensate all those who were exposed to asbestos in their work process, so it is also workers in shipyards, some other workers who worked in places where they were exposed to dust inhalation and microwave asbestos. From what the waist says, six months. Staying in such an environment is a great chance that after 15 or 20 years you get lung cancer and mesothelioma and that's what needs to be said all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149708	Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149709	First, I agree with you that there should be no compensation because the same workers worked from October 8, 1991 until and after. So that's where we restrict and discriminate against people who worked both before and after, I don't think there should be discrimination because they were in the same conditions, in the same workplace, on the same surface, so these people should be compensated. Of course, it would be best if it were a single law and I at this point would just not be like you now objecting to HDZ, SDP or not matter which party but should think together how to reduce this discrimination or completely annul it if possible, if it is impossible to categorize and these up to 5 years and those before this date. Therefore, all workers who have created this good, who have been threatened, should be compensated and of course should do so best legislatively that all those who have been in other companies and outside of Salonita, Plobesto who have worked with asbestos, have the influence to... We should exercise our right but we should discuss it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149710	Thank you. Mr. Martin Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149711	October 8th is a very important date for contemporary Croatian history and Croatian people. You've repeated it several times on October 18th, I think it is, it's the day of October 8th so that we don't confuse the general public so you can change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149712	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149713	I, a colleague of mine, would not bid here as much as possible, but for me, it's 30.5 examples, but it's about people, it's about people who worked both before and after those dates. We are talking about our people, our citizens, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the political Croats. I won't count you here even when the legislative framework was, but we're talking about the same people who worked in the same area either in the plates, or in Vranjic at Solin, any company. I'm not talking here, you're mentioning yourself here and stressing these dates very significant, and here is not a date debate. There's no discussion here about dates, there's a debate about a man, here every law must be in the interest of a man, and there's some legislation that cancels a man. This parliament is a people's home, not laws that undo man and discriminate against man. All Croats, i.e. I am talking about Croatians and all political Croats regardless of which political party, nation, they do not deserve to be discriminated against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149714	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasa Djujic, next individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues fully agree with the discussion of representatives of the SDP Club and I support that part and I say, once again here I will repeat that any law that is passed to correct any injustice is not good if it creates some new injustices, and this date limit in any case creates a new injustice and it is not good. And I'm not going to talk at all now about the absurdities that come from these dates and these 3.4 days that could lead to someone having the right or not being entitled to this compensation. In any case, it is not good, and I want to point out and I support the story that these dates and dates are completely removed from this law and that further consideration is given to enlargement as they are, and fellow Bulj has spoken to other employees, or all those who have been exposed to asbestos. And I want to use this debate to point out another problem. So it's taking care of asbestos waste. So, the state has been co-financed for a long, long time to handle asbestos waste that has a lot in households in Croatia. So, from the roofs, from the coverings, for example in the Gorski Kotar, even the whole sides of the walls of houses are covered with lasonite plates that protect against heat, moisture, etc. And there's still a lot of that in households. In 2016, the Environment Fund stopped co-financed the management of asbestos waste, so those people who in the household would change the roof and decided to store that asbestos roof with some waste collectors before they were, the state paid the cost of that care, and then since 2016, the fund has suspended it due to lack of funds and we had this situation for, say, 2.3 years that the state no longer financed it. As of this year, the state has dealt with it in a way that she said, the fund said that citizens must have the right, only citizens, so not businesses dealing with the building for free to store it with waste collectors, and that local units are obliged to settle the cost of the disposal. Which I also don't think is right. Therefore, the state should finance this as it has been so far, it should not burden cities and municipalities with these financial expenditures, but on the other hand, the state should come up with funding to help citizens remove roofs. So, many citizens don't have the money to remove such roofs, and in my opinion, a program that was the same a few years ago was good, the state should come back again, which is that the state co-finances the replacement of the roofs of asbestos with an example of a chip, and that's what we need to meet with. So I appeal once again here and I draw attention to this problem and think about that solution because there are a huge number of houses, here in Primorje, from which I come there is a large, large, although many, much less than before, but still at least a third of the roofs in some coastal places are covered by asbestos and there should be a strategic solution to how to solve this problem because it still threatens the safety and life of our citizens. And here's why I'm appealing to you to think about it and think about this care and construction firms, but also to relieve the units of local self-government because I'm not even sure they're all paying because they don't have the means to pay for it, and then what happens is that we find ourselves in the nature of illegal dumps of a bunch of asbestos panels that then threaten both water streams and other things. It's mostly not good. This is the way to go back to that model before 2016, and should be considered in the future, the overall solution to these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149716	The first line has Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149717	Thank you. Dear counterpart Djujic, in front of the party Let's change Croatia I can say that I fully support this proposal because we are ready from our party to support any proposal that makes sense and is in the interest of citizens. Especially your request to return practice by 2016, because a lot of people, how he will take the roof off asbestos if there is nothing to cover again. Therefore, it remains, this returns to the local community, the local community has no money but really needs to return the practice that the state takes care of itself, finance, pay the costs of transport, download and make up for what has been taken down. And I ask you if there's money in the Environmental Protection Fund, so there's boast that 500 million is a monopoly firm, hunts to the roof, they argue about it, and people won't help, now they stop saying there's no money. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149718	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149719	I think this money has to be for it and it's exactly my debate, about the fund I'm not going on about his business, we're watching all these days what's going on out there, but these are things that have to be brought into control, and I'm going to answer a line like that in your style. When the SDP comes to power with its partners in the second year, then we will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149720	Okay. Mr. Arsen Bauk has asked for a replica and is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149721	I share your concern about the disposal of asbestos waste, but I would return to the first part of your debate and it concerns new injustices or the removal of the old ones. So the fact is that all the workers to whom this law applies and which apply to the Salonite Act were already exposed to one injustice at the outset because they were exposed to the effects of particles which were not known at that time which caused certain diseases which were deadly. As far as this law is concerned, then it is certainly necessary to install these criteria for Plobest also for the law concerning the salon. For example, about 45 workers left the Salonite in 2005 and they did not receive compensation because they were related to those found in 2006 and 27 of them had already died, most of them from lung cancer. So here are the representatives of the ministry to take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149722	Thank you. Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149723	I fully agree with you, colleague Bauk, and it should be pointed out once again that this compensation is only a minimal satisfaction for these people because health has no price and no compensation for financial people will bring back health but it is still necessary to be careful in this law that no new injustices are created. And here's why I once again appeal to the ministry gentlemen to give up this date limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149724	Mr. Gordan Marasa has a third line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149725	Thank you very much. In your debate, you said correctly that it is impossible for municipalities and small units of local self-government to solve the problems of the disposal of asbestos panels and then the question arises, and there are representatives of the ministry responsible for the environment, where 2 billion kunas go, where we see it. So if such emergency problems aren't solved, what's the money going on? So it's a very non-transparent area that serves as a bunch of pigs for political prey after the election. So HNS did not accidentally get that, the citizens are aware that the HNS is able to monetize its 5.6 votes in the Croatian Parliament. He didn't accidentally get that fund. If there's no 2 billion to get rid of it, then what are they spending their money on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149726	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149727	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras is asking myself that, and the more until 2016, it was fully funded from the fund. Then how was the money? And then in 2016 there was no money at all, so 2, 3 years there was no co-financing of waste management, that kind of dangerous and then it was done in a way that since this year it was transferred to local self-government units. So there's money and there's got to be money because it was three years ago and nothing dramatic changed that they've now collected some expenses. So it's a good question where that money goes and what that money goes to after 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149728	The last line is Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149729	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Djujic, I also share your concerns and agree with these replicas that went before me. It's not just the Primorje-Gorski County that has a big problem with asbestos plates, I can say that in Dalmatia, especially in the hinterland, it's also a big problem that very many houses have just such a roof and that it's a thing even worse it's usually houses where pensioners live, old people who really don't have the ability to finance a replacement, a change of roof. And so the question really is how much this kind of thing costs, and is it just an obligation for the state to replace a roof for people who need to be replaced or is the obligation of the state to provide health incentives and quality conditions for the life of their population. The right to health is a constitutional category and must not be ignored as such. If money is mismanaged in funds, it is a big problem, especially if citizens and their health suffer afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149730	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149731	Well, that's exactly what my appeal was, so most of those roofs are located right on houses where people are in poor financial and material condition and it's the state that has to solve it because people when they put it on didn't know it was harmful. And today they live in these conditions that violate their health and you said very well that's the constitutional category and that's why and it's the state's task and you need to seriously think about how to solve this problem and give yourself a real deadline and tell people we're going to solve it for so many and so many years and it costs so much and so much. And I think that's possible, and that's why I'm drawing attention to this problem that's starting to get serious about it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149732	Thank you. The next personal or individual debate is Mr Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry there's no minister, but here, the Secretary of State will tell him what we've been trying to do here all along and point out that they're wrong and that one law that works well does then injustice to other people. And the people who worked in Plobest, who worked in conditions of exposure to asbestos, who won't receive compensation, remain a bitter taste in their mouths. I will read a letter that I received from a man who worked at Plobest who writes: “In a systematic examination from 1980 to 1990, he did 10 lung scans for me. In 1989, I was found to suffer from asbestos, and since then, I've been sent to controls every three months. The lab found me suffering from asbestos and in 2002, I was found to have lung fibrosis and now I'm suspected of having mesothelioma. I retired from disability for a professional illness in January 1990, is that man entitled to compensation? According to you, because he retired, and he couldn't have changed his lungs and everything else, he won't get any damage because he didn't go into a disability pension on October 8, '91. Is that fair, moral, and just? And that's what we've been telling you all along. The other problem you have in this bill of law is that period of 5 years. I will only refer to myself, I left the minister this one good article which was published in the archive for the hygiene of work and toxicology, criteria for the recognition of professional asbestos and pulmonary parenchyma and pleura, which is a prerequisite for developing lung and mesothelioma cancers. Therefore, a positive working history of at least 6 months has proven intensive exposure to asbestos or asbestos exposure for longer than 6 months, 5g. It's not mentioned here, when we're talking about 5 years old. Then we're talking about that these are workers who are exposed to lower levels of asbestos in the air than people who worked in Salonita, in Plobest, who worked in shipyards, so the rest of them were less exposed to asbestos, and that's where they need those 5 years. So someone who's been missing for a month if he hasn't worked in, around, so he hasn't worked on jobs that he's been exposed to high asbestos levels, you won't give him any damage, although it's clear that it's only enough 6 months that you're there to make it after 15 or 20 years. get lung fibrosis, lung cancer, mesothelioma lungs and die. I'm trying to show you that, I don't know why you're wrong about something, I don't know what your idea of leadership was that you put a date instead of saying very clearly that, no matter what they did, they have the right to compensation, because this is health benefits, this is our debt to them because they've done nothing to them, so no one has warned them, or anyone else could have pointed out to them at that time when they were working in those environments, because in Europe in the '70s and the '80s asbestos was in a very wide application and that asbestos was applied everywhere. And it's not just the Republic of Croatia that is depriving its workers, that is depriving all countries in Europe and all the countries they have at the moment of the asbestos problem. And I'm afraid that the Republic of Croatia will come back to the wallpaper of the International Labour Organisation because according to the Convention on the Management of asbestos, so that's 162 on security in the use of asbestos, there are very clear requirements of the International Labour Organisation for the Republic of Croatia and how much information I have not provided all the necessary information that we should have under that convention that we have ratified here in HS and that's what we as a state should do. It is clear that my colleagues from HDZ will try to relativize this discussion in a way that you were well, you had power, what you didn't solve, so we went the way to solve because we went through the problem of asbestos and one roof law, it was called the law on asbestos that should be solved, and what fellow Djujic said, taking care of asbestos on roofs, on house facades, solving the issue of damage to workers and Plobest and Vranjica, but also shipyards and all, there are still jobs where people have worked exposed asbestos for years, and that is the debt of the Republic to them. Not to mention that at the moment as we sit here, asbestos is probably imported into the Republic of Croatia, somewhere along some of the routes asbestos has arrived in the Republic of Croatia, although since 2006 it has been a complete ban on the import of asbestos. And that roof law was also meant to be resolved, but there is obviously a legal hole that this product still enters the Republic of Croatia. According to some analyses, over 100 tons of asbestos entered after 2013. in the Republic of Croatia. Before 2006, about 5,000 tons of asbestos had entered the Republic of Croatia and I am sorry that the Ministry of Protection and the environment that should be very concerned about this because this is deadly waste, asbestos is a deadly thing, it kills people, and it should be very clearly monitored and prevented, the excuse to follow it to the Ministry's defeat. If anyone needs to worry about it, it's the Ministry of Protection and the Environment. The statement that we will deal with these problems is false, we will not solve problems, we are closing only one injustice that opened in 2010 because if we do not change this date that we are telling you all the time that this law should not be a date and that this law should also be converted into a law on the compensation of workers who were exposed to high asbestos concentrations and thus we will deprive workers in Plobest and shipbuilding workers and Croatia will finally show that they care for those who are neither guilty nor liable in their work process by earning bloody wages, breathed asbestos. And that's the message of my discussion, let's not correct one injustice with other injustices, I think that in the second reading we should find another solution and simply remove these dates because they're arbitrary and, as I said, I'm asking the Secretary of State and Minister, based on what I read at first, is that man entitled to compensation or not? According to this law, there is no reason why he retired from January 1st 1990 and now has mesothelioma lungs, noting that mesothelioma lungs that it is a tumor that is a highly malignant, when discovered, whatever is done at this time modern medicine, there is no solution for this type of tumor and there is a direct link between the inhalation of asbestos and the occurrence of mesothelioma pleura, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149734	Mr. Ante Babic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149735	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic, I am saddened by the fact that you are in fact demeaning the fact that you are in the making of this law or working group in which doctors participated or were at least guided by this medical documentation of people who have suffered from asbestos. So they don't know and you know. That's what you're actually telling them in your debate right now, but also in the name of the club. I don't think the citizens have forgotten the fact that you were the Minister from 2001 to 2016 and you also knew that this convention was passed in '86. accepted in '91. in the Republic of Croatia, since '93. It's been working on that legislation for years. I think at the very least that what you just said is not correct because you know what to do, how to do it and how much it costs and you've had enough time to do it, and unfortunately you haven't done it, and as far as asbestos and its imports are concerned, if you know about illegal activities, you have to report them to the DORH or the police, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149736	Answer, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149737	Well, I'm sorry, fellow Babic, that instead of saying that these people in Plobest need to be compensated, I've read a very clear letter from a man who is not entitled to compensation under this law and by all other criteria just because there is a date in the law. And I have appealed that we are not going back to who did what we were doing, I can say again that in the Government of Zoran Milanovic we left at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System of the Law on asbestos that experts worked on but also members of the asbestos association and that this law is Minister Šikić and then Ćorić pa Pavić obviously stayed somewhere in the drawers and they did not see it because they would see that what is now done is not good but that they should go with another solution. I was just quoting about the doctor's profession, just quoting the article of Mrs. Zavalić published in a professional magazine.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149738	... Mr. Martin Baricevic, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149739	Dear fellow Mrsic, you have read us a letter from an asbestos patient, and it was obvious to you that in our congregation, as well as the general public, you may have been able to do so, but because of asbestos, we mainly have examples that we have miles of asbestos pipes in local water lines and that we have no human beings. I'm here to say that the beginning of this problem is to solve these things, that this is the beginning and that probably our society won't have the money for all things, and we need to be aware of that. I also think it's not just an asbestos issue, we have examples, for example. Lužina dumps in Zaton Obrovačka, the municipality of Jesenica, where to this day tens of thousands of people suffer from irresponsible behaviour of the wider community.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149740	Thank you, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149741	My colleague, I did not offer empathy, I offered and read a letter from the man who sent it to me when this law saw the light of day. And it is certain that this letter should be pictured and thought that we are not doing injustice and we want to correct wrong some others by doing wrong again to some thirds. And as far as asbestos itself is concerned, it has everywhere and needs to be removed, primarily from schools and kindergartens, but also from all the buildings where this asbestos is located, especially there is a lot of it on the roofs and for that it needs to be found and the means because asbestos kills and that is the problem and that is what this law did not give an answer to how to solve this problem in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149742	Mr. Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149743	My colleague Mrsic, me as well as you and my colleague Bauk from the SDP and all together, I think it is good that this issue is resolved. I didn't understand from your debate at any point that you said this was to be rejected by this law and that nothing is good here but we all point together to a new injustice that is being created and that's this date. So, it can't be a date to be a limit to this, but obviously HDZ is only important to them are only dates important, so here from the discussion of colleagues I see that from 14.10.2016. There's no more responsibility, so it's only the ministers who were responsible until 14.10.2016, so that's where they set dates, and now instead of saying this is good, it's not good, let's go straight to the end, when you make a constructive proposal, the main answer is justice for some new injustice, you were the minister you could have done it, it's the wrong way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149744	Thank you very much. Mr. Mrsic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149745	Yes, I still don't understand why the legislator set such a date. It would be clear to me that he set the criteria that anyone who has the right, who has no right, is here talking about 510 Plobest employees, and that there are no criteria by which the criteria are chosen, according to the 510, is spoken of as 5 years. The exposure to asbestos, why 5 years ago, I have quoted it very clearly that 6 months of exposure to high asbestos levels is enough to develop asbestos, lung fibrosis, lung cancer and mesothelioma and we are trying to point out a position that will do another version of this law to understand and to understand the message that it does not do injustice and that it can correct this injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149746	And finally, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149747	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Mr. Mrs. Mrs., you said about exposure, I didn't get it right, that still asbestos as a dangerous deadly thing was entering the Republic of Croatia despite the ban on the law. Is this about illegal imports or some different imports, a smuggling that the state does not care about again. And as for criticism that members of a former government shouldn't talk about things they know a lot about, it's exactly an attempt to cover up or to silence such people who probably know most about certain areas in the assembly, and that's why you're the only ones talking about these topics that you know, surely we who have an interest in the country going on, will support you in what you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149748	Thank you, too. Mr. Mrsic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149749	Obviously, there are gaps in the law in the import of asbestos, and the Ministry of Economy obviously, and then the Ministry of Environmental Protection doesn't care enough about it because asbestos goes under other declarations and under, therefore, hidden declarations for some other thing, and clearly there's no control of it the way it was. The media wrote a lot about it both in 2012 and in 2013 and in '14. And '15. etc. that asbestos enters the Republic of Croatia and that asbestos imports are not required for the permits that should be and that is the problem that is seen, we should be a country that has an absolute ban on asbestos imports, and obviously we are not because under some other declarations, asbestos imports are imported and here is my message from this booth that both the Ministry and the State Inspectorate and all others are working on that asbestos is no longer imported into the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149750	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras who will have a personal discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149751	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, at the very beginning of the debate I have to say that this is a much more important topic than, for example, the topic that has caught up with the media today, it's about one thing, I would say to the lax evening organized yesterday by the ruling coalition in a Zagreb restaurant with fine wines and nice trays on the tables, they were discussing how they would still be trading... Well, I wasn't there, Mr. Babic, but I know it was nice wine, I wasn't, but I know that the gentlemen of the ruling coalition love fine wines and love the trays to have the best bits of meat or portions that... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149752	Go on the subject, please, dinner was very modest, and the wines were very ordinary, go on, because I was present, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149753	How for whom, for you, Mr. Radin and these ordinary wines are unreachable for most citizens...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149754	Please theme asbestos.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149755	...so, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149756	Please don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149757	...for you ordinary, and for the citizens unreachable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149758	What? Shall we talk about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149759	Here, let's go with the subject. So this is a much more important topic than yesterday's ruling coalition dinner and I would say what we citizens expect to correct the injustices that are visible in the Republic of Croatia at every turn. One of these injustices is that even if the people who have worked in these companies and have been poisoning themselves for years, they get final compensation, but if we're already making a proposal then let it be fully correct, then let it be a proposal that will enable everyone who is really threatened to get compensation and be placed in the way that the debate was here. So it's 5. It is certainly too long a deadline, and this one, I would say, a complete injustice is that people who worked before 8.10 to catch the whole period, meaning since the factory started working in the '50s, the '60s, and that all those who worked before the establishment of our homeland to ultimately have the right to receive compensation, so there could be a legislator calling on many terms, as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, means to me, here are the few terms that are the source of our sovereignty, one of these terms is certainly before the creation and the start of the factory, which is the term of establishing the foundation of state sovereignty in the period of World War II expressed against the declaration of NDH '41. in the decisions of the Earth Antifascist Council of National Liberation of Croatia, which means that our country, our country, springs from the Constitution of that date and we could appeal to that date and we could cover the period of '43. further when in Croatia the anti-fascist movement founded the foundations of the Republic of Croatia on which we today have our own country. So on this side, it could be called for several terms that would allow the entire business period of the factory to be covered then and unfortunately the unfortunate negative exposure of our fellow citizens during this period to harmful substances many of which died unfortunately, and their families would have the right to receive compensation. Why do such exceptions and their pain in some way deepen? I call on my ministry colleagues to delete at all the dates they put in, to include everyone, or to set a start date for a factory that was about 50 years old, and so far, to include everyone who worked there. On the other hand, I agree completely with my colleague Mrsic, and I think it's five years too long. There's someone here who said it was called for a 1988 study and I think it's more relevant what my colleague Mrssic said and that if someone's been exposed for a long time, and I think it can be subdued by six months that eventually they can get compensation. The other thing that I wanted to say here, which I personally am deeply concerned about, is that the problem of asbestos tablets or asbestos, especially in contact with children, is that we have not solved not only throughout Croatia. I will be the prominent city of Zagreb where 18 objects mean kindergarten or school, elementary or secondary still have parts of asbestos, most often in its roofs. So it's going so slowly to rebuild and instead of throwing ourselves into the city of Zagreb in terms of best friends and money on a variety of things, we should concentrate on what's particularly important. So looking at the priorities, I think we'll all agree that she's getting rid of the school, she's going to spin something that's most important, which should have been done a long time ago. So on this side, I will only mention kindergartens that are still in trouble, and these are for example Children's kindergarten Ivana Brlić Mažuranić in Dubrava or the area facility of kindergartens in Remetinco on the street of Vice Vukova, gardens of Gajnica, Prečko, Zvončić in Voltino settlement, and the area facility of Apple in Čulinac and also Kolibri in Vorovac. Which is why we don't solve these problems and those kindergartens have long since been removed from the agenda as far as asbestos panels are concerned, not that it has some dynamics or that projects run through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund have been waiting, rather than for the city to solve it for a long time. I think it's much, much more important than many of the projects that are being imposed in this city and where the money goes, and we don't know at the end of the day whether it's a real cost of what it's supposed to be or not. I can also mention several other basic schools such as Dobriša Cesarić in Borongaj, Matka Laginje in the city center in Laginjska street, Silvio Strahimir Kranjčević in Bogisic Street, Savski Gaj and Ksaver SAndor Djaalski on Kaptol, Jure Kaštelan on Kruga and Bukovac Elementary School on Bukovec, so there are also primary schools where children are going today, and there are still built-in asbestos boards in these facilities and children are objectively threatened. So we can say that the janitors have educated and are careful that these panels are not rotting, etc., but objectively children are at risk. And then when you see the city of Zagreb throw away city power with money, instead of getting rid of this moment without talking about other needs that we have in the education system in the city of Zagreb where there is almost nothing. Children in schools don't even have the most basic hygiene needs, and then the question arises, and I'm going back to the beginning of my debate, which is what people at dinner with fine wines and good food talked about yesterday. Did they discuss whether the chips were necessary only to keep Andrej Plenkovic in power for another year, to starve the GUP of the City of Zagreb in the City Assembly and Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic to enable business around Zagreb's Manhattan, or to need to solve these problems that are life-giving, and now I've listed a dozen facilities in the city of Zagreb, schools that should be adapted and asbestos removed from them. And then the question arises and it may seem a little strange to someone here, but simply when you feel that kind of revolt because of the behavior of the ruling coalition, you have to reason that way. Because I wish all those cameras from the Capitol were in front of those schools yesterday, not waiting for the statements of the individuals that were then going out to explain that everything was great in the coalition and that we'd last another year. Because it's not all great in any area, unfortunately for our society. Corruption, crime rules everywhere, non-transparentity, and all spring from a corrupt way of ruling the current coalition, which is supported by those who have deceived their voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149760	Thank you, too. As you saw as soon as you mentioned asbestos, I let you speak. Mr. Sasa Djujic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149761	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you have now mentioned 18 public buildings in the city of Zagreb, mainly schools and kindergartens that are still covered with asbestos today. In my debate, I was talking about private houses, people who don't have the money to replace that part, and that's the problem they're talking about a little bit. So if public buildings still exist that are covered with asbestos, how can we expect to solve the problems of households of people who can barely handle the end? Therefore, it is important to approach this problem responsibly and planically and to give deadlines and the state must find the means to remedy all these things. And when it comes to the city of Zagreb there certainly has the means that these issues could have been resolved, and that the city of Zagreb could have co-financed just as well the citizens who still have asbestos-covered facilities in their area, let's say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149762	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149763	Thank you very much. So, fellow Djujic, when we see that for two monuments, or not us, but Mayor Bandic, we are ready to single out 60 million kunas for what could have been solved and to build a few new objects and kindergartens and children would not have a small risk associated with asbestos, then you understand what the priorities are. And when you support this with the fact that in the city of Zagreb these monuments are built by the best-connected companies, then everything is clear and clear to you the nature of the coalition that is in power both in the city of Zagreb and at the level of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm sorry that, so I think some colleagues support it in a way that's less resistance and God's allowed it to last as long as possible. But fortunately it will last until next year at the 9th month, because then there must be regular parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149764	Second replica, Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149765	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, I don't like to make an attribute with no one's name, but somehow in our neighborhood they speak for you in such a way that you... And now tell you what it is, you'd better be told by the gentleman who participated in last night's dinner that you were talking about in an individual debate after this debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what you were saying in your debate actually prompted me to think about how to characterize you, so, no cholera, no sanguine, no talking about the subject. You say that people are important to you, or the law for which it is then passed, then you talk about roofs in kindergartens and school buildings in the city of Zagreb. In fact, you're a typical example of cyclopenics, so you can't really know what you want in your individual discussions. Today we are talking about a law that is important for Plobest workers, less about roofs in kindergartens and school buildings in the city of Zagreb or all of Croatia. That's why it would be good for you to set yourself up and read the 2011 debate you were talking about... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149766	Thank you very much. Time. Thank you. Time. Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149767	Thank you very much. Mr. Radin needed your interpretation, so your colleague Babic invited you to interpret the citizens of Croatia for what he meant to say, so we are waiting for you to come forward. Although often in his discussions when it is not used in such terms, people do not understand what they are saying. But that's a minor problem and that's his problem. But the bigger problem is the nature that shows when someone criticises, then they go to insult and disdain their associates. The problem is your sir is that 75% of the citizens think who I am, you'll see it very soon. And then, as a man would say, you will wonder why they do not recognize the genius of HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic and have not supported you to a greater extent. But it will come soon, I look forward to it. And trust me, those people are looking forward to you getting out of control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149768	Thank you very much. I think 100% of citizens think the same way you and I do, don't you? Mr. Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149769	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr Maras, as we all know one of the underdeveloped if not the most developed area in the Republic of Croatia, it is not to say the richest, so it is quite logical to finance the construction and maintenance of various facilities in this city. But raising and spending money and raising monuments to the dead, and at the same time neglecting living, especially children, is certainly not the smartest policy. By creating and building fountains in which water rings which should probably suggest the happiness and satisfaction of the citizens of Zagreb, surely they cannot share those who live and work, especially when it comes to children under asbestos roofs. I think it is also necessary from this place to send a message and a call to the city administration and the mayor of Zagreb to address this issue, is it part of his promises to work on improving the citizens of this city?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149770	Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149771	Thank you very much, Mr. Klisovic, for recognising this problem as opposed to fellow Babics who are irrelevant to whether children go to schools with asbestos plates, who only cares that we have this corrupt framework in the Republic of Croatia for another year, which is the Bandic-Plenkovic coalition. And thank God we have a Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that says next year at the 9th month there will be elections and that we will say goodbye to that team, no. It is the only happiness in this entire accident that we have here where total insensitivity for children, beware, the man here warns me that I point out examples of Zagreb kindergartens, schools, he doesn't care about children at all, he doesn't care if children go asbestos panels as long as the filla coalition with chips. So, he's got more important chips and Bandic than kids who go to school. And while there are such advocates, let us not be surprised that corruption flourishes in Croatia and what the Government is ruling in this way by the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149772	Time, time. Mr. Ivo Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149773	Thank you. The Party Change Croatia firmly supports the compensation of all workers of Plobest, but not only of these but of all who worked and are still alive. On the other hand, the removal of asbestos panels from public private houses everywhere in Croatia and the return of what was until 2016. Money, there's money in the Environmental Protection Agency, and do you think of a colleague Maras, you've been in politics for a long time sounds naive to me that they'll solve it when out of 10 there managers 9 are from HNS, that's turned out to be, but to them it's not disputed. So they deal with themselves, you understand. So, first of all, the agency needs to be cleaned off of the contaminated political clientelem in order to clean away asbestos from everything that is infected in Croatia. Do you really think this team is interested in this project to save people from pollution, to pay them compensation, or are they making deals for each other, and to please their private interests?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149774	Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149775	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, please do not mention the problems of people or those who have houses and roofs with asbestos plates because it is not music for his ears. He does not want to hear about people's problems here during the debate because HDZ is not used to it, to hear about the problems of citizens, children in Zagreb, etc. And a man might be excited and resent you for mentioning it. Well, we're not here to upset him, we're not here to warn about the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In his opinion, MPs are only here to support Plenkovic for a year. Of course, I am Caricating and normally that this must not be so and that I agree with you that people should be allowed this replacement because people cannot do it themselves and I hope that we will be able to do it next year because trust me HDZ and the coalition with Bandic they are more concerned about how cold the wine was yesterday in a restaurant than whether these roofs will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149776	Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149777	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is my colleague Maras, of course, that I will agree with you that asbestos should not be at any kindergarten, not at any school in the Republic of Croatia, and of course the City of Zagreb, given the fiscal capacity it has been able to handle it on its own. But Croatia is not only the City of Zagreb, Croatia is another 554 units of local self-government, which the vast majority unfortunately cannot solve because of the weak, weak fiscal capacity they have, and will unfortunately be able to solve even less next year because the government announces a significant reduction in the incomes of local self-government units. It's worth about 800 to a billion kuna. So I suggest that the state through the fund, through the competent ministry, secure funds towards the fiscal capacity with which the units of local self-government have, some help to solve this problem, and of course we also have the City of Zagreb and local units that I am sure can handle on their own, but that should be a legal obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149778	Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149779	Thank you very much, Mr. Radin. I must warn you, first of all, that you have sinned against the instruction of Ante Babić, which is that you must not talk about people's problems unless it is strictly written in the legal proposal what you should talk about. So it's the lesson of Ante Babić not to talk about these problems where thousands and thousands of our citizens are threatened and I warn you because of him don't say it at least in his presence. This one, so of course I agree with you, and I have to caricate again. Of course I agree with you, thousands and thousands of houses in Croatia should be renovated and unfortunately most units of local self-government do not have financial capacity for this. They need money from the fund, money from the state budget to do it. I think it's the interest of our fellow citizens and we can fight for it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149780	And finally, Mr. Stephen Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149781	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's colleague Maras, first of all, I agree with you that all the workers who worked with asbestos should be compensated regardless of the date because if they did, it means that they were equally affected by this asbestos. But what I would look back on, and maybe I'll do what you say is wrong again to go through this debate we've heard through a couple of debates of individual parliamentary representatives, changing the shelters that are covered by asbestos means that at public institutions and private houses, and that's not the problem just as you said the town of Čakovec, pardon Zagreb, in Čakovec, thank God we don't have a problem at public institutions, but we have a big problem with the private houses of many family houses where people don't have the funds to solve it, and unfortunately there are no more such competitions opened, so here I appeal to the fund to open a new such competition because we really see through the debate that there is The need to welcome our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149782	Thank you. Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149783	Thank you very much. You can see how good it is for us to talk in the Croatian Parliament and when we mention asbestos and the compensation of people who worked at the factory exposed to the substances that we get to other problems. And that's why it's good parliamentaryism that we can talk here, that people hear what problems are, and not that in the style of our fellow member Ante Babic's appeal, we close in one circle and we only talk about what he would like to hear who is currently in power. So we're here to talk about people's problems and to insist that these problems be solved. And I'll bet you that we'll all agree in this assembly that this program will open up in the fund, and here's Mr. Secretary of State will probably transfer it to the new head of the fund when they've resolved this from the CNS and next year it opens up and that this problem finally comes down, and we'll do what should be an ad act, to finish it. And that's why here in this debate, there's no topic that concerns It's not too high. Try to understand. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] A colleague of Babic and you of HDZ. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149784	Thank you, you'll have more opportunities... I don't know if you do, I don't think you do, do you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You'll have more opportunities to replicate. You'll see because now Mr. Ante Babic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149785	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the respected state ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Environmental Protection brought the proposal of this law to HS in the first reading in order to actually correct the injustice done to people who were employees of Plobest in Plobest, which is very good and I think extremely, extremely high quality made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But, Madam Secretary of State, I must warn you of one fact that even before you in one time from 2011 to 2016 there was one Ministry of crafts and middle entrepreneurship and they worked hard for you, they had a lot of programs related to asbestos roofs in the City of Zagreb and in the Republic of Croatia for schools and kindergartens in order to remove them, or as such, replace them because they were carcinogenic because they then thought very much about these things. However, the bill adopted today shows to a good degree the concern of the government that did not cause this asbestos-related handicap for its citizens, but wants to materially damage them even though their health cannot be restored because it has been irrevocably destroyed. I'm glad that the minister in his investment actually looked back on the genealogy of all the events related to asbestos from the '50s to the '90s, which unfortunately in the former state, and after that we couldn't avoid because it was also used in construction, we said in the roofs, construction of houses, plumbing, water pipes and so on. However, the minister also said in his presentation and mentioned only the asbestos-related convention and said that it was imposed on national legislation to regulate it in their own way by laws adopted in this HS and should be said that it started in 1993 with legislation, and today, in fact, health insurance laws, then the Law on the compensation of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos, but also the Law on the Remembrance of the Rights of Age Pensions of Workers Professionally Exposures adopted in HS, and these workers actually exercise the right to have their pensions increased by 26%. So when we talk about pensions, especially pensions on special regulations, we need to remember these things, so they are related to workers affected by asbestos. Some respected colleagues, opposition colleagues in HS often know when we talk about these pensions special, special regulations to say very ugly things, actually those things that aren't true, forgetting these facts about workers affected by asbestos. So I wouldn't want to have the double standards we heard here today. I made an effort so I pulled a phonogram from 2011, when the SDP was actually talking about another law, actually similar to the law that was related to the company Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy from Vranjica and when they said that in no case should it be paid through the Environmental Protection Fund but that funds should be found otherwise from the state budget without burdening the fund itself. Then, too, they wanted to mock one good intention or try to demean one good intention to pass such a law. Same thing, we saw, they do today. In fact, this good bill in the first reading could support certain facts with their concrete proposals. True, there was only something about dates that burdened them, but I believe until the second reading that the ministry will also consider these things and answer them in a second reading. I would also like to stress that under more favourable and special conditions for obtaining the pension of asbestos workers, 862 pensions are paid, and they are actually on average around 3 450 kn, so 26% increased, which I find extremely good, correct and fair. I say, health can be difficult to compensate for, but materially, it could have been compensated. With this proposal, 510 workers will be paid in 3 wars, with this first war due to begin in 2019, so in the amount of 219 thousand kuna and I suppose that is the reason to get to the second reading as soon as possible so that this amount can be paid. Whether it is enough or not, of course, that it is not, that it could always be more, that economic opportunities are better, it is certain that the government would also consider greater compensation. Unfortunately, such a situation is as I think it is through a working group, as well as with the interested public in the Republic of Croatia who could actually react to this law achieved an optimal solution or as far as the Croatian budget itself is concerned. That this bill is good and the Committee on Labour and Pensions and the Committee on Environmental Protection has actually unanimously supported this law, so it is as good as it is. Reading the comments of the committee itself, they were not as many today at this plenary session, which does not mean that perhaps some of their colleagues and their examples are not such that they cannot be respected. This intention is certainly noble and good and solid, and given that I love it, when, given the HDZ and its fundamental principle of solidarity, it is passed by such laws that have one social sensitivity, in fact, to correct something that is possible to correct precisely because of the citizens themselves because they were directly exposed to asbestos, it would not be good what we heard or received some e-mails, but they were unverified that this bill would actually cover and those people who worked on administrative jobs to obtain compensation, and that those who actually participated directly in the work with asbestos would not get it, it certainly would not be good and should avoid it. As I come from the electoral unit where actually working with asbestos was a practice both in Solin and Vranjic and here in Ploča, I also mentioned that law in 2011. and I am obliged to mention something about Salonita Vranjic d.d. In bankruptcy, the Minister spoke of 7 cases which did not apply on time under this law, and their compensation could not be paid off, but I think there is another part of the people who were then fired by their own free will, and as such could not participate in the legal satisfaction of the same law because, I say, they were fired and requested as such could not be submitted. So, you should actually think about this thing, you should revise this law that we then passed on the compensation of the company’s employees, Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy, Vranjic, and correct that injustice against people because I don't think it's about any bigger money. You're on your way to this job as a ministry, the intention is good, it would be good if we didn't finish this job halfway, but to finish it. I believe that both the working group and what we talked about today in the first reading will take a good look, if there is a foundation, and the possibility of the law covering those workers we talked about today, I say, where there are grounds, I think we'll do one good thing for all of them in the Republic and that we'll be covered by asbestos, and the asbestos itself and the use of asbestos will come to an end in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149786	Thank you, too. You have three replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149787	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, my colleague Babic, I am pleased that you have come forward, and in your debate you mentioned the problems that objects have with asbestos panels, I believe that you yourself are aware of this problem and that you are not sorry that you spent a few seconds of your debate to point out this. What is my question to you, tell me how you would solve a problem related to a date or why you think that someone who worked before the date stated in the law has no right to compensation or his family or how you think that the type of illness that someone has been over will unfortunately remain unrefunded and in some ways people will have a stomach bitterness or feeling that the state has ignored them. What and how do you think this problem should be solved?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149788	Grandma, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149789	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Maras, you took advantage of what we were actually talking about on the Labour and Pension System Committee because I noticed actually that date that I was having problems with and on the board itself, I was actually wondering why that date and what was actually going to happen to those people who worked for many years and not covered by this date? The heads of the ministry then told us that they would think about these things and that they would actually do one analysis that would show why that date and how many people had actually been compensated before, and we know that they had been compensated by one other law or decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149790	The second line has Mr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149791	Thank you very much. Fellow Babić, the law is necessary, but the law should be both clear and unequivocal in order to remove any misunderstandings, in this context several doubts and suggestions, Art. 1st century 1st century says who's right. The question is, is there a right to anyone who worked from 1985 to 1994, so 4 years old? during this period, and 5 g. Before that, it's not clear, I think you'd be right, but it doesn't say so. St. 2rd period of 3rd month, I think it's too short because many have lost their paperwork and need a little more, so I suggest 6 months for submission of applications, and it says in section 3 that evidence is needed. I think it is necessary to write down what evidence is, for example, whether the evidence is two witnesses and certified statements in a public notebook or not. And there's a lot of talk here about justice, the question is, is it fair that someone who's worked for 5 years? and 25 years old. They get the same fee, and I ask that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149792	Answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149793	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Maric, here you are, in particular, in the matter of the law itself, which the ministry should actually consider until the second reading. I agree with that, this law would not be allowed to make a greater injustice, which would be tragic under the very law. I didn't want to talk about individual cases in my individual debate about what some colleagues used today, and I got a few letters, let's just say one lady whose total job experience was 35 years, and actually with asbestos she worked 27 years. And she, for example, has no right to compensation. I believe that these are isolated cases, but they should also be considered as such because I think such individuals deserve attention, attention and compensation, especially what, here and what Mrsic said, is suffering from lung cancer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149794	Mr. Djujic has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149795	Comrade Babic, here's my replica for you and these colleagues of Maras and colleagues of Maric that I agree with both of you. So you didn't answer, so I'm interested here's a concrete answer, what do you personally think of this date limit as Ante Babic? So, you've now called upon the ministry gentlemen who said they'd run some sort of analysis, that they'd consider, that they'd see. I'm interested in your personal opinion. Do you consider this a date limit to the right to compensation fine or not? And I'm not going to talk about individual names either, but if one person is suspended for some right, it's not a good law to me. If one is the only person no matter what his name is, and that's exactly the question that's being asked, is it people who did '85? Or '80s. Because of some date block, they don't have the right to compensation and why that exact date, why not someone else. Here's your personal opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149796	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149797	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. When I was reading this law in my first reading, in fact, through the e-Consultations of Citizens, it was actually responsible that it was a reference time since the founding of the Republic of Croatia. That fact of pain, that grief, I think that those employees who worked, were directly affected by asbestos, which can be proven as such, I don't know what kind of analysis is, I really don't know, that should be taken into account until the second reading, think very well because I say, maybe it's not so many people that it's not possible, but again, it's the last professions and working groups and ministries, which I'll support as credible and professionally explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149798	Thank you very much. We will now return to the debate on the point we have not finished yet, we have two more individual discussions, the first will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149800	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here, I want to say something on the subject of the Law on the Reimbursement of Plobest Workers in the First Reading, and we thought it would be safer and somewhat faster today, but here's an interesting topic that's been implemented throughout the morning and it's certainly been pleasant to listen to all the debates that went to the fact that this law should be passed, of course, and that the ministry listens to what the parliamentary MPs are saying, that it should add this final bill and that certain remarks should be respected, and that it will probably be because the story of asbestos we heard already, not only in this modern Republic, but probably draws roots in that former state of Yugoslavia, when everyone who now knows everything about asbestos, then were like doctors or as some politicians, members of some parties before, forgot to tell workers that this material that it is also of cancerous action and that at the moment we could hear it all because of the matter can be heard. However, we have one fact on the ground, which is that many houses have a cover exactly of such material, but that many water pipes are also made of such material and we have thoughts that say one is not good, others say is not carcinogenic, it can still be in function. And of course, we've come to today, and there's been a lot of government in this new country that started dealing with these issues somewhere in the middle of 2000. the adoption of laws, as well as the closure of those companies that made products or made asbestos products. Of course, we heard from some former ministers that they had saved everything, absolutely everything, the law that should have completely solved the whole problem, but simply the law remained in the drawer, remained in the drawer, failed to come to the debate, and simply they have better solutions today because they are in opposition and know exactly what they should do because when they were ministers they simply didn't think of it well enough and, of course, they were forgotten, as well as many other issues, and that's why we are discussing here in this way. Let's just remember, I don't know, the Law on Protected Rents, and then one minister or minister said and we had this law, but we stayed in the drawer, so we left it to some next government. So the RBA Savings Act or many infrastructure projects, from the Peljega Bridge, the Ciovo Bridge, the LNG Bridge, were all talking about it, someone did it anyway, brought the necessary documents and something was going on. Let's remember how the shipbuilding issue was solved, and they told us they solved it in 2012, all of it, but this government paid 4.5 billion guarantees to some, let's put it this way, so that the story will roll again. I'm not going to talk about, I don't know, Agrokor, about public finances, about the state in which they were left, about debts, about public debt, about waste, about water services, so they've dealt with everything and left everything to some next government to bring to an end, and of course this government of Andrej Plenkovic has come to an end, who obviously has to sort of reconcile it all, figure out that everyone would be happy, of course, except the opposition. And when we look at everything that's been going on, we've come to this, I say, a law that needs to be solved, at this point, by a certain 510 workers. Should there be more? We heard today that, that there are illogicalities about the selected dates although the proposer by me logically chose them, it is 8.10, Independence Day, the day that we broke off all sorts of ties with the former state, but there is a illogicality if someone had actually done it before and that such a date in some way, to make it impossible for him to use what right he had, which is to protect, to get compensation for his, as we heard, health benefits because it should really be slightly different to formulate that there really is no doubt about whether these dates were 21.10.2002 when a new society occurred, means New Plobes which was not registered for working with asbestos and the date 8.10. He worked in that company, and he really needs to work it out. As should those 7 Salonites who also remained unsolved after the 2011 law was passed. What I want to say is what is basic means that we should not be in some way unhappy with it, I say when we speak by the opposition that this government wants to offer solutions that make sense and that solve a whole problem. That we should not experience it in this way as we have experienced it today on the side of the opposition because we want to give people what they belong to and have some criteria for it. Not all the laws have always given everyone the same. And it's possible for this law to be unsatisfactory, but to be as few as possible or not at all if we can do it until the second reading. In my view, it's some basic message of this part regarding the very Law on the compensation of Plobest company workers, because these people were obviously working and perhaps in ignorance then in that country because I don't know what would be the reason for you to know something that was carcinogenic and to let people deal with it and end up bringing their health into trouble, and obviously that was the case. And everyone says it was cool in that country or I don't know what. In a new country, we speak differently. I guess that's a question of our own. So I'm going to ask the Ministry once again to listen to what we had from the MPs and to respect these remarks to the greatest extent, but also to try to find a solution for the seven people who said from that other law where the workers of the Salonite were left without that possibility, and it's possible that they might be able to solve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149801	Thank you very much. This would lead us to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149802	Proposal for a Law on the compensation of workers of the company Plobest d.d., first reading, P.Z. 642. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the compensation of workers of the company Plobest d.d. is hereby adopted. and second, any observations and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 118 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149803	Dear fellow MPs and MPs are moving on to the debate on points 2 to 62 from the agenda for today's debate. At the beginning of today’s session, we decided to hold a united discussion on those points. By all points of the agenda, the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Museums, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 716 and Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Sports Inspection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 743 and they become an integral part of the proposal, these draft laws. The Legislative Committee has tabled amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on administrative inspection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 708, Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on humanitarian aid, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 712, Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 731, Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 735 and the SDP Club on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, P.Z. 694. The debate was conducted by the home working bodies. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Management Darko Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149804	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I welcome you both... and distinguished MPs and MPs. So, as you said, it's a 61-law package that's here today in front of you, and it's about harmonisation means the State Administration System Act that went into effect 18. Seven. In 2019, after which, on the same day, the Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore concluded that it had committed the Ministry of Administration as chief coordinator, and it is bound to this package of 61 laws. Two basic reform packages are problems under the State Administration System Act. The first is decentralisation and rationalisation, and the second is depoliticalisation or professionalisation. I'll try to explain what this is about. As regards the Office of the State Administration, the Law provides for the abolition of public administration offices and for all the meanings of the transactions done by these public administration offices other than administrative inspection, sports inspections, control of the legality of general acts and administrative oversight are entrusted to the counties. On the other hand, this law provides for the removal of ministerial assistants as officials, so 96 ministerial assistants stop being officials and are named as management directors. In this package I will not, of course, read all these laws that are in the package, can only mention that in this package that is before you there are 15 laws that are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, 5 laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft, 5 laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture, 4 laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, 4 also in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, 4 also of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, 3 Ministry of Croatian Defence, 3 Ministry of Agriculture, 3 Ministry of Science and Education, 2 Ministry of Finance, 2 Ministry of Tourism and 1 MUP, external affairs, construction and spatial arrangements, work and pension systems, health and protection of the environment and energy, and 3 laws in the jurisdiction of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing and 2 in the jurisdiction of the Central State Sport Office. So, according to this conclusion of the Government of 18.7.2019, we have fulfilled that task that we have received, all the laws covered by this conclusion are referred to the procedure in accordance with the deadlines set out in the conclusion, which means that this is the responsibility that we have carried out within the legal time limit. Two things I'd like to stress here, so first of all, to clarify this situation around the Office of State Administration or their abolition, I've said all the jobs other than the ones I've listed, will be taken over by the county. This brings about 200 new procedures from the economy, social activities, general administration, property legal relations, and for comparisons only with these new 200 jobs, the counties have so far had almost 3 times fewer jobs in their scope. In addition to the tasks entrusted, the counties are also taking over officials and tenants, from them 2508 to 25.9., meaning 517 officials and subsistents have declared that they will accept the severance as provided for in that Law on the System of State Administration. However, we still have 3 working days in which an additional number can possibly be declared to accept the severance or to retire. Since you know that the counties themselves have about 2200 employees and tenants, and if they were to be kept on this number that I mentioned, that means that the counties will be taken over somewhere around 2,000 employees and tenants, and that in the total, they would have meant somewhere around 4200 employees and tenants who will be taken over, means not only those jobs that have been done by the counties, but all these entrusted jobs as provided for by the System Act and all of these laws that you are going to discuss today, or decide when the time to vote comes. What the state is on its part, meaning through the Ministry of Administration, has done to ensure that the means are provided so that the entire system can function. So, we've been going through all the county in these last months, so all the administration offices, we've talked to their leaders, we've determined their property, so we've been listing everything about the Office of State Administration or all the property, all the funds that will be taken over means the county itself. On the other hand, the second part of this reform that I mentioned concerns depolitisation, we're talking about 96 assistants, namely, the Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries that has so far had 3 levels of officials, so with ministers, state secretaries, they were ministerial assistants. This reform, through the adoption of this legislative package, creates preconditions, means that the tendering for the new future directors of the administration is being launched. Namely, in the conclusion of 18.7.2019. which I have already mentioned several times, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed all the ministries and all the bodies of the state administration concerned, that by 14.10. means amending all its acts, regulations, regulations and all that is necessary to amend in order to be able to discuss competitions for the new future directors of the administration by the first day of New 2020. So here I am trying not to enter the elements of any of these laws that you have in the package today, and it's about 61 laws, in short to show where this reform is going to be, or what it's all about, so I'm sure there will also be different questions in the debate, and here I and my associates who are present here today and who will help me answer all the questions, we will try to answer all your questions. What I still have to say is here at the end of my opening presentation, it means that we also accept these four amendments to the Legislative Committee, and we will be clear about all others when the time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149805	Thank you very much. We have a longer list of replicas, almost all present in the hall have come forward, but the absolute advantage of course has the respected representative Petrov, then Bulj because they also rose before the secretary of state started speaking, so here's a colleague of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149806	The Honorable Chairman, you will know why I called before Mr. Secretary of State started exhibiting, it should not be funny to you, but you should ask yourself, since you are part of the ruling majority, which is why today on the most important law, which at least so presents as the most important law of the Ministry of Administration, there is no minister. There you go, Mr. Secretary, so you can see it's not funny, you shouldn't laugh before the time. Dear Secretary, perhaps you should be the minister, here I do not know, so you represent something as the most important law of the Ministry of Administration, there is no minister, and what we see from your published website of the Ministry of Administration, he is with some bus touring the Republic of Croatia, is this an indication that you know that what you have told us is unfortunately a lot of false, but I will say a lot more during your presentation, but please give me an answer why there is no minister today, would you perhaps be a minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149807	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149808	Thank you. So, given that I was in charge of the entire package of laws, and since you know the minister relatively recently appointed to his post, we agreed that I would defend this package of laws, and the minister is carrying out his daily duties. So the minister was first in the cabinet session, then the minister is carrying out his other obligations, so it is not necessary for me at least that the minister must be present at all the laws. On the other hand, the most important law we had was the moment we passed the State Administration System Act. So what we're presenting today is just actually harmonising all these laws regarding the system of state administration. It is technical harmonisation if you have carefully examined all these 61 laws that have come, so it is purely technical harmonisation with the State Administration System Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149809	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149810	Thank you. This isn't technical harmonisation. This is a follow-up. You, at this point in time, are shutting down the assistant ministers at this time, and you name four years as directors. Now at the end of the term? It's a clean and classic entanglement at an indefinite time to keep working on those positions and that the next government has no possibility of being changed. That's the first one. Secondly, it is only a shame that here is not a minister who rides by bus to the Republic of Croatia while you are in the afternoon to blur out the Pharaoh system that you want to make out of the counties that are gravers of the regional development of Croatia, mainly my Split-Dalmatia, and yours also from where you come from secretary counties is no better. I was expecting an act here on the abolition of counties that function exclusively artificially and exclusively for party infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149811	Thank you. The Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149812	Well, here's just one comment about the afternoon, I'm sorry to have to say, but you're responsible for being in the afternoon. We've been here since 8:30 this morning waiting to get a chance to take that out and get a chance in the morning. I apologize if I can finish, I've listened very carefully. So as far as the minister is concerned, I just explained to you what's going on with the minister. So the minister was in the government meeting, not riding any bus, and on the bus this afternoon at 4:30, so he was in the government meeting and meeting all his obligations. Secondly, as far as Article 74 is concerned, if you have read the Law on Civil Servants correctly, then you could see that people are named for four years, it is not about any infatuation and that there are ways to resolve these people. So one of the ways is also paragraph 4, after the removal or modification of the structural unit or the state body it manages. So anyone new who comes can just do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149813	Thank you. A fellow Bull who was injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149814	The Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Chairman of the 238th Parliament, has been injured because of the untrueness of those who represent the law, here are the buses of your today's notice. All over Croatia, a red bus minister walks with him. You once made us have to block the pay phone at the important Agriculture Act, so don't try us again. And it's not our responsibility for us here today at this hour to discuss but only the President of the Parliament. [[Intruder Reiner: Your time is up, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149815	You're out of time. Of course, there's no injured Rules of Procedure here because I'm going to tell you again something I've said more than once, so I'm going to say it again. No chairman is here to assess whether anything is true or false. If we did that, I'm afraid a lot of things would look different. It is not our role, so often some say something that others think is a lie and vice versa and it is not in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, no injured Rules of Procedure, I will not give you any punishment for this, but do not abuse the Rules of Procedure please. The next replica is the respected representative and vice president of this High House Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149816	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So I personally regret that there is no agreement in Croatia, in fact, who are the people who by changing the "authority" to say stay and who is leaving. And on this example of your first election presentation instead of the assistants of future management directors, I can only assume with a 95 per cent signification level that probably exactly 95% of current assistants will become or remain directors. Because that law was, that a set of laws was followed or regulations with a way of choosing them, so which was absolutely excluded from any of the political influences I'm going to say then we could talk about depoliticalizing the public administration which was a good step. And in the end, you'll know for yourself when it's over that the minister will choose his closest associates. As for the second part, even though I still have seven seconds, you'll have a few problems. You will have problems with 20% of the county's original income spent on employees, and in the end although this is a reform, it will probably remain the same number of civil servants only at the second level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149817	Thank you. The Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149818	Thank you. Here I would just remind you that depoliticalization of the state administration was a condition of pre-accession negotiations, and then the government did it. You remember in 2012, you brought back the assistant ministers or 2011, no matter now, I may have made a mistake in the year. So you've returned the ministerial assistants and we're doing it again to reduce the number of government officials by 96 and I think it's quite enough four years, so with this article that I've quoted earlier, that appropriate professional people rather than any political people are elected to these places, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149819	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze. ... Comrade Bull, let's not go from the bench. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149820	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sure you've known IDS since '93. but I have to conclude that this package of laws again lacks fiscal decentralisation which will cause additional costs to the counties and therefore will have to cover all the costs arising from this obligation and this will greatly reduce the possibility of investing in development projects, so I ask you because I believe and expect you to have inputs because today we are talking about more than 60 and some laws, why is there no amount of funds to be paid to the county? Why is the dynamics of the payment of funds not indicated and when will fiscal decentralisation finally be carried out for the counties to receive adequate income for carrying out entrusted tasks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149821	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149822	Thank you very much. Therefore, the transfer of funds will be provided in the rebalancing of the state budget, or in the 2020 budget, I apologize to the sub-group of the 363 budget to assist within the general budget. So the county funds will be secured within the Department of Administration's item and the county will receive enough funds to make the system work. So there's no word he won't. All issues will be regulated by special agreements as you know it because the minister is personally along with the State Secretary of Romec, visited all the counties and arranged with the offices of the state administration and with the mayors dynamics and the way it will be done. In addition, the rebalance of the state budget will provide 150 million kuna for the payments of these severances that I mentioned in the previous presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149823	The next replica is the respected representative of Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149824	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, of these laws we have read, I could tell you that there is no rationalization, no decentralisation. It's too short a time, so I'll say more in an individual debate, but I'd just like to say, rationalization doesn't have to be done by the very fact that the counties are being taken over by state officials from the state administration office and by the fact that a small number of them are being paid off by huge severances. There is no rationalisation, not even if it is considered that civil servants from the state administration office will be taken over as county officials, which will have higher salaries than they have so far if it is true and I think it is true. And secondly, as far as we're concerned in the city administration, I can say, according to a proposal for an amendment. 6th and 7th, the competent authority of the state administration will receive out of all 555 units of local self-government general acts on the supervision of legality, and the question arises when this surveillance will be carried out and, instead of the 15 days so far, the deadline for making the suspension decision is 60 days, so you know, you were mayor, for example. Let's say the decisions on the communal contribution, how complicated the work will be and, in fact, instead of decentralisation all these jobs, we return them to Zagreb again, there is no decentralisation. I'm also interested, here I have more time so the Law on Roads, along with the statistical framework, that is, the categorization of the mountain-mounted area, the town of Lepoglava is sorted with a height of 548 m and the municipality of Štrigova with 341 is not [[You've gone a little too far with the weather...]] I'm sorry, I saw wrong. [[Not that there's no time, but you've long gone by.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149825	Dear Secretary of State at the Department of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149826	Thank you. So the current price of the system is 350 million kuna, that's how much the whole system costs. After this reform, so all the parameters we analyzed and all our estimates say that the system will cost somewhere between 310 and 320 million kuna. You didn't listen when I was talking about this severance act and the number of people who are going to leave the system. It's a cost that's going to be smaller. On the other hand, as far as the county pays, you're right, so there are different counties, different basics and different coefficients but they're not in all counties the way you think they are. So, we've calculated all the averages per county, and we've included in this calculation the departure of 500 people from the system. By now, up to 25. The 9th reported 517 people, we still have three working days left, so let's wait and we'll give you a final report when those 3 working days pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149827	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149828	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, you said that one of the objectives of these sets of laws is to depolitise or professionalise the work of the state administration or the system of state administration. So tell me how that fits with the fact that one of the changes we're discussing today is in art. In 94 changes and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, in the current law, the list of voters in local elections concluded other professional persons and this is the head of the state administration's office, and according to a new bill of law, it will be done by a mayor who is not a professional, or who is not in that system, but is a political person, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149829	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149830	As far as the law is concerned, you know that so far it's been done by the head of the state administration's office, and that analogy means that since we're leaving all these jobs that I've listed, that we're leaving except for the 4 that I said we're not giving up, we've made it possible for the mayor to do what he's been doing so far, the head of state administration's office. But to demystify fully that procedure, it means that it's a list that APIS delivers to the county, and which the mayor only makes his parade credible for the election. So I wouldn't have mysteriousd that famous register at all because there were a lot of questions on the boards about it. So, nothing else we've done is all that's left in the old, old solution except what he's been doing means the head of the state administration's office, it's now done by the mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149831	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149832	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, these amendments to the law, you say we should decentralize, depolitize the savings. Analysing those savings we had so far through the abolition of agencies such as advisory services, the Croatian Agricultural Land Agency then told me from the ministry that I can't calculate how much savings there will be, but there will be savings. I'd like to hear from you how much savings there will be here even though you've partially responded, and it's crucial that when you transfer all these jobs, you don't follow them and the money because you're still going to go from the state budget. We have a negative experience of county taking over the construction office when we only got funding for their salaries in the first year, so it wouldn't happen again, I would also recommend to my mayor that they don't sign this agreement until you define how long you'll get the funds for the salaries of the taken over employees and you have to change the pay regulations because the county can spend until 20% of the original income for wages, and you didn't say that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149833	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149834	Well, I think I was precise enough when I said that the total savings would be between 30 million and 40 million kuna. So instead of 350, the system will cost between 310 and 320, assuming 500 people go out of it. So, on the other hand, I said exactly how much there will be and how the budget will be provided and how they will be paid. So, what happened with the building permits offices will not happen because you will have meaning in the 2020 budget and in the 2021 and 2022 projections the planned funds that will be paid to the counties, and of course when the next budget period comes that means determining in the next budget period how much these funds will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149835	The next one is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149836	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State you said that one of the conditions of Croatia's accession to the EU was that we didn't have these three levels of government that you said or ministerial assistants and that the former SDP government returned them to the assistant ministers that you are now evicting from the system. But you have to say exactly why we are, in 2012, our government introduced ministerial assistants instead of state secretaries and we had them, and then this government started this mandate, so let's give you a call for a debate, don't throw it away, I mean you have a chance to come forward, and then you say, I know what's true, and what's not unlike those incursions of yours. So, we had ministerial assistants, we didn't have State Secretarys, and then at the beginning of this term, you introduced State Secretarys and announced that you would remove the assistant ministers and it took you three years. So now you're evicting 3 levels of government officials that this government has introduced and it took her 3 years to remember how you're going to introduce them now a year before the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149837	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, let's not leave the bench, please. Let's not go from the bench, please, colleague Schuker, colleague Djujic, please. Please, both of you, don't. Comrade Shuker, colleague Djujic, please don't make me give you a warning. The Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149838	Thank you. So I was very precise in the opening statement, I said that this was a condition for Croatia's entry into the EU and nothing else. It's a condition. After the government has met that condition so you are, the fact is here it is confirmed by my colleague Bauk in 2011 I made a mistake and apologized not in 2012, so you re-introduced the assistant ministers, but you forgot in your presentation that you had introduced the deputies as well. So when you get the total number of all officials you'll see that the number of officials after this reform means that when you remove 96 assistants falls on some 70s and some people, unlike 140 and something that was in the system before. So that's all I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149839	Dear Representative Arsen Bauk wants a break, probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149840	Dear Mr. Vice President, given that the 2011 debate developed, so in order to remind Mr. Shuker and Mr. Djujic once again, I think that Mr. Djujic and I do not have to remind him and to further consult on these 60 SDP laws, the club is looking for a break with the following explanation. So what the secretary of state said about the conditions for EU accession has shown history that it was not a condition because we changed it in 2011, and yet we joined the EU. So they took us in obviously without it. Secondly, we have expressed the view that the appointment of assistants to official posts, that this is the way to repolitisation is done, and that is what we remain. In order to see how serious we were at that position, you will remember that before the government was formed, before the government was put to the vote, we changed the State Administration System Act and abolished the directors of the administration and appointed or provided helpers, and when we are able to do that again. Here's how there wouldn't be a dilemma about what would happen if it did, right, when it could happen. It is also true that we have abolished the possibility of several state secretaries by the ministries and have prescribed that the minister has one deputy, so at that level, we have reduced the number of government officials by about 50, and on the third level, so we have defined the assistant ministers of the management organisations within the ministry as officials, as in general and always managed by one person, we have not increased the number of employees because this job is only one person still working, but we have made it clear that they do not remain in the service after the term of office, but that if the government solves them, they have 6+6 and continue their lives as they have lived before. For this reason, I ask that you approve, and you don't have to grant a break, and the debate can continue if you insist, you can end the replicas now, and then pause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149841	Thank you very much. No, no, we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure, I'll always stick to the Rules of Procedure, and we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure, and I'll see you at 14.29. It's a meeting at 14.20 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our break is up, and we will continue with the replicas. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.30 A.M.]] The next will be a respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149843	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, we, apart from bringing laws here, must be careful what messages we send. So, you're talking about 500 people who will be offered stimulative severances and who will leave the system and in your words that would mean that out of the 350 million kunas that are scheduled, these costs could be required at 310, 320 million kunas if I understood because of the departure of these people from the system. However, you see the union initiative, all that Mr. Aladrovic, who is now the minister, spoke about the cost of the pension system, about the future, if people do not work until 67. And now a little retardation of the Prime Minister himself who says we'll only make it possible for those who want to work after 65, but it leads us astray. And just for a short time, I'll be more in the debate, you can't say that the cost is only 30 million, these people are going to retire, they're going to need to be paid out of the pension system, so it's not just a one-time cost that applies to severance payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149844	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149845	Thank you. So here I was precise, so in expenses and I said if you listened carefully, that we would have the final cost of spending on 1.10 and 2.10 when we know exactly how many of these people are going to retire. However, the law has entered into force on 18.7., so the law provides for this cost, i.e. the possibility for all people who have the conditions to retire between 2019 and 2025, to declare whether or not they want to do so, people have made themselves known, what you are talking about came later, after the adoption of the law adopted, means 18.7. and by that law these people were entitled to or are still entitled to the next 3 working days to declare whether they wish to take these severances and to retire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149846	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149847	Thank you, dear Vice President. So this is from this story about state secretaries who go to management directors I have to admit that I'm glad because it reads that HDZ is scared of losing the election of parliamentary, incoming and that these people who have been elected in a political way, so someone liked them, called themselves State Secretary in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is now putting them in places that will be employed indefinitely, so become officials and you say no politicization, this is a pure politicization of this. And as for the state administration that passes to the county, this is what you want to give the importance of the county that should basically be abolished if they serve nothing but transfer decentralised funds from the state to the hospital and do it badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149848	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149849	So you said a whole series of inaccuracies. First of all, the secretary of state doesn't turn into directors, but assistants, first inaccuracy. Secondly, directors of the administration will not be elected indefinitely, I have repeated it several times, but will be elected to the 4th year, meaning that you have read the Law on Officials a new one that voted between the others and this HS, then you would know that they will be elected to the 4th year, but you don't know that, do you? And thirdly, you prejudge and the election results, right, wait a minute, the elections will come soon, so you'll end up like last time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149850	Thank you. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149851	Your Honor, Vice President, I'll give you an article. 238, I'm going to thank the Secretary of State for correcting me, for the assistants turning to directors of the administration, but they stay in the system permanently. Here, thank you very much, thank you for the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149852	Okay, that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you for the last time right now, I've told two colleagues before, now I'm telling you, next time I'm giving a warning about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, very clearly, we are now clear, I'm not going to discuss myself at all, I'm giving a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149853	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, this isn't just about nomotechnical coordination, and it's not about professionalisation, it's about politicizing the state administration. You probably know or should have known that so far school institutions had to ask the first state administration if they had unscheduled technological surpluses in full or part-time and only when the Office of State Administration would have said they didn't, schools could call the competition. In any case, it was the State Administration's office who sent employees to school. In these amendments to the law, concrete education and education in primary and secondary schools, you will give the mayor, the mayor, the policy of giving authority to deploy technological surpluses to schools in the middle and basic areas of his county. Is it professionalisation or is it a shameless politicization of a system in this particular school?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149854	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149855	Thank you. So, in my opening statement, I said that everything other than the 4 jobs I mentioned, means that they won't be entrusted to the county, means everything that the public administration offices have done so far, we leave it all to the county, including what you've said. So now we can pollemize here whether maybe this centralized system that you introduced in 2001 is better or whether this system that we're proposing right now is better with this legal package. You can have your own opinion. I can have my own opinion. I personally think as long-time head of one of the local self-government units that as many jobs as possible should be decentralized and brought down as close as possible to the people on the ground, including these jobs we are discussing today, and so is this one from your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149856	The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149857	Mr Secretary, you're with your statement that the minister is not familiar with this law that you've been doing it, has shown what the power of the current minister's law is, because it's obvious that you're a shadow minister, but what I'm talking about is that these proposals of the law go towards the typical politicization of the administration and HDZ for what he's always done before the elections, whatever it is that he takes his staff away, whether in the county, whether in the ministry or not, and we know that. What you just said in your answer is that we're turning the principals into other functions and that they're going to be on time, and what if after four years they don't meet and get fired? Is he gonna stay in the system or is he gonna go outside? Obviously, it will remain in the system, as HDZ always does.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149858	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149859	So, as far as ministers or non-ministers are concerned in the shadows, let me answer that first. So I only appealed in my first presentation to allow a man to cope, so you know well when Minister Malenica is appointed. So it's the 7th month. And you know as well as I do that this reform began last year. So you expect it to mean that the minister who was appointed in the 7th month. He knows all the information about this reform even though he practically didn't participate in it, here it was my only appeal, or I asked you to figure out what the situation is, here. As for the people in the system, so the system will be selected through a public tender for 4 years. But I read your article. 74a from which it is very well visible how these people can be resolved. So if that's what you're up to, you can resolve them by removing or changing the element of the structure unit, you've done it very successfully every time you've come, you've changed the internal structure and you've executed all the people that HDZ left in the system. You can do that. But when you come to power. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149860	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most Honored Representative Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149861	Honored government and ministry representatives, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The laws we are discussing these days are, in fact, a kind of legislative implementation and harmonisation of a whole series of laws with a recently passed Law on the State Administration System, as the Secretary of State has already pointed out. The law here in Parliament and the general public has been presented as a reform of the state administration. As it begins, it will be the first and last move of this government on the subject. It is an interesting topic which unfortunately did not pass an adequate quality public debate, which is not predictable and alleged reform on this system of state administration. We do not foresee effects on quality and efficiency in carrying out a number of tasks of the state administration. In essence, the reform comes down to entrusting the state administration's affairs to the counties. That's the point, and I haven't been able to count exactly what kind of business it is, but as far as I could see, it's about two hundred jobs at once. The county's move in a large number of state administration affairs is becoming the first-degree bodies of the central state administration. In essence, so did the founder of the system long before 2001. At that time, the counties were designed as units of administration and self-government. With the arrival of the 3rd-January coalition, the Constitution has been amended, the counties lost the property of the state administration's first-degree bodies and then remained exclusively marked by the units of the regional self-government. And that's where we come to the first and one of the key problems of the esteemed secretary. And that's the question of the concept of constitutional regulation of the state's architecture. I'll explain what I mean. According to the current constitution, the Republic of Croatia has 3 vertical levels, one central state administration, the principle with ministries, the 2nd is county, the 3rd is local. In such a constitutional arrangement, the tasks of the state administration are regulated as a rule and carried out by key state bodies and central authorities of the state administration. These jobs were defocused on state administration offices in the county, but still under strict hierarchical control by central authorities. In addition, the possibility of laws provided for the option of entrusting the state administration's tasks to the lower levels mentioned earlier. Trusting in jobs is a legal institute that is nevertheless designed exclusively as an exceptional possibility, not an institution of 200 jobs. And then we come up with a key issue and a problem, is this kind of mass trust in the state administration's affairs to the county at all conceptionally correct, doesn't it violate the constitutional architecture of the state? In other words, we should all ask ourselves whether the Government should actually change the Constitution so that the right distribution of business between state, county and local level would happen in the right way? That's what you'd... The government actually envisaged this small institute as an exceptional option, used as a bypass, a bypass to avoid changing the Constitution and de facto implemented the abolishing of the constitutional model that existed in Croatia 20 years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You bypassed the profession, you bypassed the Parliament, you took advantage of the possibility. And that's what happened to you in your dwarves. Instead of being seen through a quality public debate that is best suited to local, regional and central administrations, which will thus be the most efficient for citizens. It didn't work, the sheriffs came, your HDZ mayors came, and we're looking for everything, we want everything, and you gave them almost everything. In 2016 they came with a request from the county community, they asked you for garters, they were looking for a way to mix with that paper where today the court guarantees the moment you buy real estate, that's really how it is. And that's what they asked for, that's the only thing you didn't give them, it would have been a song if you'd given it to them, but you gave them everything else, even their home offices. I don't know if one of you had a problem with the home offices. One example, of course, the government will say that this is a shift forward in functional decentralisation followed by fiscal decentralisation, that song very often people hear. I think we should be clear here. I think we should make it clear to the citizens that this move that the government is making today has only three objectives and these three goals are all three politicians and a party, a tight party. The first goal, at the moment you assign 200 jobs, you justified the existence of the county, specifically, they justified why counties even exist. The second goal is to meet the narrow party, particular, regional party summits in HDZ that want power and power in their hands. And the third goal, the third goal, is most important, is to see that the HDZ actually makes a standoff in the event of losing the election because when HDZ's mayors are given power and power in their hands, they don't care and all those who come to run the national level, run the central bodies, will be defiled, their hands will be tied. We therefore believe in the Most that this reform will not have good effects. I've talked about some of them at the moment. I asked the prime minister what was going to happen in connection with the departure of officers from the shipping system. Now we know about the numbers that are being talked about, about the funds in the budget, what bothers me is the situations that are going to happen anyway. Namely, if the county finds out they're missing people doing these jobs, who guarantees that the same people who decided to retire today, get severances from severances in their account won't go back to doing the job? It doesn't say anywhere that it's not going to happen, and I think you also have people in your ranks who used severances and went back to the state system and state-owned companies. In addition, one important thing to take care of, the moment you wrote this bill, you predicted that people would be able to retire at 65 years and the other day you went out with a proposal for a pension reform where you predict that people could work until 68, so I ask you, do you know what your right hand is doing, what your left hand does to you? In what way will people today be able to decide what is best for them, whether to retire or not, when they don't even know what's going to happen in the country in three months. Because you didn't coordinate two ministries. It is very easy, the other problem, that our citizens can find themselves in a situation that is not equal in front of the law. In different counties, different decisions are made in identical matters. Decisions may be made at different times, so some citizens will wait much more to resolve some disputes in some counties than those who will resolve it relatively quickly. Who's going to protect the citizens at this point? Citizens have the right to appeal, right, they have legal means, the silence of the administration, but it is a struggle that they must fight individually. And what happens when it's established that some county doesn't know how to handle all the jobs it's got? My dear secretary, will the authorities of this county or all the counties be taken away at this time? How is that going to work out? Also, there is another practical problem. I have a question for you. The system pays, is it correct for you, I'll ask all the parliamentary representatives here, is it correct, is it fair that some people who are employed in one county, do the same job, some employee who is employed in another county, receive a different salary? Is that correct? Is it correct on the other hand that at this point with your county law will become first-degree bodies and now look at the situation one particular problem that will come to you. Some official in Zagreb in the city of Zagreb who has the status of the county performs a becoming and receives a salary of, say, 7.5 thousand kuna. After that, his case is filed by citizens of complaints, he comes to the second-degree body of the central body in the ministry, where he is performed by an official of the superior of the first-degree body in Zagreb, solving, real control of that man, that official in the city of Zagreb, and therefore receives less money. That's what's gonna happen to you. I'm asking you, is that correct? It's like telling me it's perfectly normal for judges of municipal courts to pay more than county judges or judges of the Supreme Court. Is that normal for you? The system pays unfortunately for what you can see doesn't exist, it's a verse, a mess. And about your so-called. reforms can be seen all the holes and inconsistencies of this system. I will also remind you how long it allows me, that the Ministry of Administration has made a time-consuming strategy for public administration development from 2015 to 2020 with concrete measures. Both acts and strategies and action plans are not put out of force. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliament and all other state bodies have an obligation to implement it fully. While he was participating in the government, the Bridge was working to achieve these goals. We wanted to see how many people, how many people we need in the public administration, how objectively they should be, where they should work, and all that can be determined. It can be determined how many employees have jobs, which officials do that do nothing. What have you done with this reform? Quite the opposite. In the last year of your term, you will employ 170 directors within the ministry for depolitical purposes, which will put your people in next four years. Instead of fixing the system, you're tearing it down. One of the problems that will also happen to you is that some of the mayors who, for example, are founders of county hospitals can, without any problems, declare yesterday the debts we have have no intention of solving them. And my people, if someone's the founder of the hospital, so when there's debts, when the execution comes, who pays? Will that be paid again by taxpayers at state level? Is that what we're all gonna pay for? Because someone you gave authority to didn't manage the system well. I've got a lot to say, unfortunately, I'm only 15 minutes away. But, Madam Secretary, I will recapitulate one thing you mentioned in your replicas. In 2018, a survey on decentralisation took part in 163 municipalities, 74 cities. The survey was conducted to determine how many cities and municipalities perform at least some decentralised functions. You know what turned out to be? The survey showed that 58% of all these local self-governments do not perform a single decentralised function, a third of them said they did not want to at all. They don't want that. That tells you enough about decentralisation, the possibilities of decentralisation in this kind of mess and verse. I'll remind you at the end of the debate that next year's end is the period in which the strategy was adopted, but according to everything you've told me in the replica, it's short for the minister to have no idea because he's just arrived so let him ride the bus, for all the questions we'll refer them to you, you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149862	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Boris will speak. Here you go. I'm sorry, my bad. My colleague, Zeljko Lenart, asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149863	Thank you, dear Vice President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, I am looking for a break, offered by discussions between colleagues Petrov and other colleagues of what is trying to do about this called reform. I'm, I don't know what word I'd use for what I expect. I return to my county of Sisak-Moslavina, where I come from, Mayor Ivo Žinić HDZ who hired his son as professional mayor in Glina, the second in the prison system, power also in the place where he could influence. I get hair on my head from what Mr. Žinic will do when he gets new powers. Even more so, I have hair on my head that were involved in some electoral processes in the offices of the state administration. What will the present mayors, and the mayor from my county who daily walks through all possible foster homes, banquets and at least I can say in a strange state is returning home at night, at least in his office and at least doing the job for which he is elected will get powers that will affect the fates of a large number of people and also the conclusion of marriages that will be possible and it was. That's why I think this reform is going in the wrong direction, that this is pure politicisation, that this is a pure fear of losing the election of the parliamentary HDZ and simply using all methods, I can say desperately in order to try to keep the domination and to try to keep power by force. And if HDZ gets the next power, this country will be like an apartheid in South America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149864	Thank you. You seem to me, it seems to me that you asked for a break probably to consult on it, so then I'll give you a break. Dear Representative Pranic on behalf of young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149865	Dear Vice President, I demand a break on behalf of the Independent Youth List Club to consult on these laws of the state on state administration reform and we are also calling on the government to reform itself at last because it is not clear to me that Croatia can have 20 ministries unlike other more developed, much larger European countries that have much less. Let the government reform itself first, and only then do we go to reform the other parts of the public administration of Croatia, and I also want to point to one fact in the announcement, we have over... My colleague, if it's not just a problem... We have an announcement that 650 people with severance leave for retirement, and already in the counties are developing plans according to model 2 to 1 new employment, a new 300 people who should cross over work in the county. In particular, in my town, I already know who goes under what conditions about retirement and I already know about what people will be admitted to the service. It becomes small public secrets in small towns, in county stations, but it is normal that it is one way of preparing for new elections because surely these 300 people who will be employed by model that 600 people will retire will have, it is known whose parliamentary card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149866	Thank you. And I apologize to my colleague Turina-Đuric, she was before her colleagues Pranic, by my mistake, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I think first-class is actually this political topic. In fact, we are deeply convinced that under the objectives of the government here, it will be declared public, which is that it will carry out centralised and rationalization, and two that it will depolitise the public administration, that in fact none of the other will essentially happen but quite the opposite. It was also said in a statement that a consensus was reached with the counties. My information from the field does not go in this direction although certain counties, i.e. certain mayors, have, above all, seen here an opportunity to catch a bigger cookie of power than they have so far, given that some 200 jobs and powers are entering the county, which is, of course, a prerequisite for some future, future expansions in local and regional elections and for someone wider to clarify the political space in the Republic of Croatia. As for ministerial assistants and the translation of ministerial assistants into directors, they were alive and seen for several months, when I suppose, after the bill has been passed by most of the HDZ, a choice will be made. How many of these assistants today, and in your own words 96, will become officials or directors for a further 4 years in the system of public administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149868	Thank you very much. Then I'll take a break until 15 and 12 minutes. Party in 15.02 hours. Here's a colleague and a colleague. We're running out of time. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:12 A.M.]] On behalf of the promoter now, five minutes will be spoken by honorary Secretary of State Darko Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149870	Thank you. Well, I wanted to respond to a few of these previous presentations, but unfortunately there are no Mr. Petrov or Mr. Lenart or any of the representatives whose statements I wanted to react to, so here's a few words I need to say. First, then, it is false and incorrect that some 170 new directors will be appointed. So the fact is that the total number of assistants is 96 and that the same number of directors will mean being appointed by way, once again I repeat the public tender. It is also incorrect that I have ever said that the minister has no idea, so I have very carefully explained why the minister could not have been at this debate today and I am surprised, here, that one serious parliamentary representative allowed himself to remove my words from the context, and I am even more surprised that Mr. Lenart says, says that Mr. Žinić hired his son as mayor, or Deputy Mayor. I've never heard of a deputy mayor being hired, and I know from a long experience that the deputy mayor is elected together with the mayor means in regular or extraordinary local elections, and here, Mr. Bulj joined us, so I have to tell him, here he is not manipulating the photos because the photos he showed yesterday are from Sibenik. So the minister was really in Sibenik yesterday with the bus, so the photos you've been showing since yesterday. So yesterday there was a digital bus in Sibenik... , and so, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The digital bus was yesterday in Sibenik, and today it is a digital bus in Zagreb, so in Zagreb it will be at 7:00 tonight so do not manipulate the photos that are not from today but from yesterday. [[What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you?]] I'm just asking, so I understand the concepts of individual parliamentary representatives, and I realize that everyone has some concept of decentralisation, the development of public administration, all of it, but I'm asking when you're taking part in the debate on this law or in this package of laws to be used exclusively by facts, and not by the manipulations and the lies you're telling here, but television is recording this whole process, so please, it means that because of all the employees and everyone else you're not doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149871	We have two replicas, one of the respected representatives of the Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149872	The Honorable Secretary of Ministers doesn't have here this is a very important law when you have strengthened the county of Lovro Kuščević, your minister has strengthened the mayors as Pharaohs now here you are operating the power of the kingdom. You give them the power of the kingdom exclusively to continue to work on the principle of as many provisions as possible, as more control on the ground because you have the counties that we have more than China and the United States together, you now justify it at some point in time in a way that strengthens the counties which are the key reason for the catastrophic demographic and any dissension of the Republic of Croatia. So look at only the Split-Dalmatia County, so it's Boban County, partly Kerumova, it's a family county, believe me family I'll prove it to you individually. Who works, how he works out of school, health care, so you know what these countys are, they destroyed my Dalmatian Zagora, and you're talking here. And where is the minister, so this is the most significant law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Where's the minister? And you call us, be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149873	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149874	So I'm just saying that you finally start telling the truth, so I'm not saying anything else, so tell the truth. So you're showing a photo from yesterday where the minister was in Sibenik, so you're saying that from today, it's the first lie. Father, let me quote you more. Says your Mr. Petrov that we're going to appoint 170 directors we have 96 directors, another lie. The third lie, Zeljko Lenart, says Mayor Zinic hired a son as deputy mayor, man does not know the elemental functioning of the system. So the son can't be hired as deputy mayor, he can only be elected to the election. So let the people begin to tell the truth and the facts at last, and do not tell falsehoods and lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149875	My colleague Bulj, what was injured in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149876	Article 238, you once tell the truth, if parliamentary representatives, you say it's a lie, so what do you care what picture I'm waving with?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149877	I told my colleague Bulj that I would give a warning about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149878	I'm a parliamentary representative, here should be the chairman of the minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149879	Comrade Bulj, you have now received a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149880	...we had to block your pay phone once, don't we have to do it again. This is the most serious law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149881	You'll get a second warning from colleagues, Bull. I warn you, fellow Bull, do not let me give you another warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149882	You want me to stop at the pay phone, so let me finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149883	You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149884	Why can't I?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149885	You can't because you abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure. They'll follow on behalf of us, and I'm sorry, we have another replica of the respected Strenja representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149886	Thank you. I'm sorry that you feel so bad about your own minister because he actually turns out to be 2.5 months since he was appointed minister was not enough to get to know this reform. It is his narrow area, how then should we who are not in this profession know and follow that reform? So he had enough time to get acquainted with the reform. What's important, you haven't assessed what needs to be decentralised at this point, you've primarily thought about jobs and new political appointments. So, for example, You have not considered that we currently have over 500 homes in Croatia for older people who oversee the Ministry of Social Care, Demography and Social Care, which could, by law, be amended by the Law on Social Welfare which today also alters the function of controlling it with counties, that counties can take care of the condition of those older people, who are otherwise very, very, very, very, very badly controlled Because the ministry doesn't arrive, this way the county has no jurisdiction over it again. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So there's something you could do well with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149887	Your Honor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149888	It's the only thing I've got, Madam Representative, that you're twisting my statement. So in the first part, so in the first two sentences you mentioned, you're twisting what I said. So I didn't say at all what you're saying that I said, and this second part of your debate certainly with all the arguments you've made I can tell you that even in one part I agree with you, but that's the point of the debate on the legal package regarding the law that doesn't make up the package. We have had the government's conclusion since 18.7.2019 very clear guidance that we must prepare and do. And we did that job on record.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149889	The next club of MPs is the independent youth list on behalf of the respected representative Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149890	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues there is a set of laws before us that should reform our public administration. It is really not clear to me why the minister in charge is not here to answer all our questions, but also to the questions of all citizens when we all know that the reform of all reforms in Croatia is exactly a public administration reform. That public administration is in fact the biggest brake of further economic development in Croatia. When we talk about facts, let's be a little bit at some higher level and talk about how expensive our cumulative public administration is, where we are and we are at the top of the EU after the separation for public services per GDP, and our European average is 11.3%. We can talk here about reforming the transfer of certain powers under the county, but the fact is that each government increases the number of employees in the public sector. It means '90s. We put in place every government, every executive government increases the number of public sector employees. The public sector that's supposed to be serving citizens. The citizen is getting smaller. Where you have at your annual level how many people are leaving Croatia and the fact that you are employed in public service, so what do you think is not going to happen now by this law when you assign certain jobs to the counties that the county will not employ a certain number of people, is known by which key and you know which sympathisers. Well, of course he will, and of course it will be the same all the time and every government is always saying that public administration needs to be reformed, so I don't know when one government will come, really look the fact and truth into the eyes and really reform our public administration. Without reforming the crucial reforms of the public administration, Croatia will not move forward. See what other proactive European countries have done how they digitized our... what does the secretary of state look like to our digitization? It seems by the system that I, as the head of one city, have to hang on my cell phone 200 times a day to call certain government services, many institutions that receive salaries from the state budget, county or any other in order to get rid of any case. It's a fact of our digitization. We have brought this Strategy for the Development of Public Administration, we have adopted the Public Administration Action Plan, I do not understand why the relevant Ministry does not adhere to either the strategy or the action plan, because they would now have from the grants provided in 870 million kuna and quite a lot of funds realised. You can finally tell us here at least in the assembly how many of the 870 million grants Croatia has withdrawn for public administration reform, reform of all reforms. But what do we have on these suggestions now? Essentially, it means... county. I said at one break, over 600 people were going to retire through stimulating severances. You're already making lists by individual precincts of county where someone will be employed in which they have, according to model two-to-one. You told me here at the break that you don't care how the county finds those funds. Well, of course they'll find those county funds, and we're saying that these offices will be more efficient under the county. And now let's imagine and naked what the county's run, manage the school. You were saying that the intensity of this depoliticization is, so look at the school committees that are named by the founders of the county of the founders, so what kind of people are they? We have listed many schools at a county assembly in Split-Dalmatia County where they were appointed by the school boards of former HDZ mayors, city council presidents, city council members from HDZ, so when are we going to talk about this depolitisation? Countys run health care, so look where we came from today, 30 hospitals are under lockdown. So look at what other countys run, manage the waste management system. Well, here we are at the beginning. Take a look at the fourth management of the counties, the irrigation system, and see how many fields are irrigated in Croatia. So what I'm saying is that counties aren't effective, they need to be taught because they're the main brakes of economic development and these four factors they deal with, they don't deal with because we're the worst, worst. And we don't have to talk here political HDZ, SDP, independent, any of the options that the international communities are telling you, that's what the European Commission is telling you. Our public administration is at the beginning of the EU. You've now had research by experts from the Oxford 38 European countries, we've come to 35th place, and we're saying that essentially change and efficiency will increase by system to assign jobs to the counties. Countys that obviously aren't able to take care of hospitals, see where the health system is now, not to mention schooling. 200 and some district schools are still heating up on solid fuels, and we say that the system will be effective under the system of resolving bureaucratic problems with citizens, with economics. So ask the businessmen what they think about it. We are here first and foremost for the citizens, but let's know we are such an economy, a market economy and for the economy. Who are the main drivers of economic development in Croatia? Well, it's our public administration, mostly the county office. Ask them how they feel about this way of sharing jobs with the county. This is one way of fortifying HDZ authorities, one way of adding additional homes as we all say the house where a certain piece will be taken care of, and it is known who is in power in the vast majority of counties. Well, the paradox is that in those counties where HDZ's largest emigrations are in power in my county, I don't speak Split-Dalmatia. I fire the driver because I don't need him in town, he gets a job in a home-treated, former mayor gets a job at the Office for Urbanism and X,y such examples. Well, that's our reality, that's Croatian reality. And because of the reality that we are at the same level as we are with this kind of GDP and this kind of eviction. And instead of really speaking at the beginning of each government's mandate that we're all ready for public administration reforms, that ultimately we need to get to a turn, that we need to become more efficient, that we need to become more rational, that we need to digitise the process I really have another year of your government, and I don't really know what happened in public administration, and we have lists of strategic documents. So I don't know what they're doing, and I don't know months of realising something if we have strategic documents that someone in the analysis, who someone adopted, adopted the Parliament, and it was brought by the government. Why don't I stick to these strategic documents and we're really going to reform the public administration? This is the kind of reform where one business is assigned to another and all people are completely transferred to a service or one agency is abolished and all people move to another agency. It's a spill from hollow to empty. And you know who makes the most money on that? Make you those teams that work those records, change the board boards in front of the institutions. And that just changes, where every year by some government or parliament or whatever else, they just change records and names, people stay the same, and they don't stay the same, they increase. So you take the register, we say the ministerial assistants he's got are going to be gone, I don't know. 96, they're not going to be ministerial assistants anymore. And where are these people going to work? I'd like you to give us a register, a name and a last name of all 96 people, and I'd like to know how many of these people will later end up in the state service or some county service. How do some people translate, do they end up at the Bureau, do they get to the labour market or just sound into some public institutions, state-owned companies, county companies? And I also ask you once again and I urge that before reforming anything that touches local or regionally, this government finally goes into reform itself and that you reduce from 20 ministries by at least a few ministries, and not that we are at the top of the EU, such a small state. For the sake of comparisons, Germany has 14, France 16, Italy 18, Poland 17, Spain 18, Hungary 8, Slovenia 14, Slovenia 20, 20 ministries, so when you talk about reforming all of us at local levels, at regional levels, start from reforming yourself, reduce the number of ministries, and I assure you that tomorrow we wake up in a country where there are 10,000 people less by various state services, empty offices, and these, in particular, I would like to see in this law from these 600 people who go into severance to get the law that no one, absolutely no one can be hired in the next period of 5 years, so there is the possibility of schooling, so if they don't know one goes to the bureau, there are people who are able to work on the desk, and not under cover what is happening now, under the cover of European projects at a certain level of employment of thousands of people in many services, you will not leave this problem for my county. In our county, there are four people employed in the Pear Department of County, four people in the Pear Department of County indefinitely. So why do you need such a piar department in 4 counties if such people live well in that county, to paint reality. Our reality is not good, our reality is catastrophic, mainly on the issue of public administration and instead of reforming all reforms with one consensus politically, to simply bring one monatorium to employment absolutely, not the principle of 2:1 because I told you that plans are already being made that 600 people will go away, so 300 will be employed and instead of dealing with the problem because it will be a problem and any future government, but to get rid of that, we are today when we have 60 laws, but also living 60 laws by emergency procedure, we see how it is impossible to pass when it is necessary to secure new employment homes, but when it needs to be substantially changed, costing in the apartment said, life in the mountainous mountainous area and aided, 6 months is not possible to bring one rule, it is not possible to bring one rule to a single ministry in 6 months, and today 60 laws are passed in HS, where not even the minister can come to me as a young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149891	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Boris will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149892	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. So here's before I go to the law itself, all these laws, 61 of them and harmonising with the Law on the System of State Administration, I have to answer this beginning of the debate because there were too many insinuations, false things, which still need to be corrected a little bit, just for the sake of the record and for not everything to be left to anyone who says it, in fact, is telling the truth. So we first witnessed Mr. God Petrov's attack on the entire system of public administration, the president of the Most, the party that had in its 2nd term the public administration minister and the Deputy Prime Minister who had the area on board. After six months in both governments, they concluded that this job is not for them and that it is better to sit in opposition, not here today talking about public administration in the way they imagined it. It's a fact, it's what stands, they didn't do anything in that system and of course after the ministers were removed, they removed from the government, someone had to run the whole process of public administration itself and what the government wrote to itself in the 2016-2020 program, space means public administration, p. In 19, it's all very nice writing, which is what we're discussing here today. As for Mr. Lenart, he was surprised at himself and accused even the mayor that he had set his son up as mayor, which, as we've already heard a little bit impossible, but there he was elected to that place, and it bothers him even though Lenart himself wanted to replace that mayor, he was with him in the race, so in the elections, he won 5623 votes, Žinic 33 324 votes, of course he must be angry with someone and something respected, I suppose, for some future election race at any level. But he didn't mind Žinić in 2014, '15. When he put him as president of the tourist community of the same Sisak-Moslavina County, he must have been good, where they split up, I don't know, but he certainly doesn't deserve this kind of debate here on the subject of public administration. A fellow Miro Bulj, and here he came angry, somewhere up there he lifted up the replica, ran to the place all sighed, yelling at everyone. He's mad at Bobana, he was also in a race with him, he's running for mayor, Boban won both rounds, he's mad at him, and he thinks he has the right here to abuse this pay phone because the other one can't answer him. And every day we listen to what's wrong with this county because Miro Bulj simply wasn't elected, and he had great will to be mayor. Of course, there were also truths from which counties are most evicted, perhaps you will be surprised, most of all from the City of Zagreb, and then the second Primorje-Gorski County, is not there HDZ in power. So we do talk a little bit about the truth and the facts of what's the argument and all that is to be checked out. And finally, we came to this, colleague Bulj very skillfully insisted on today, where the minister, apart from the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which requires the travel orders of all ministers, has now begun to look for it. Every minister is obliged to come here to show himself to Mr. Bulju in every debate because that's what he imagined as the most important thing that we have to listen to all day, of course he doesn't have to. Of course everyone has obligations and, of course, there are people here who are determined by the government's decision to defend the question by all the laws that are proposed here, purely for the sake of the truth and the fact. And now as far as this whole process of harmonising these 61 laws with the system of state administration, i.e. with the State Administration System Act. When we brought the same, and we have to say, with 76 hands it was passed at the last session of the Parliament before summer, the opposition left the assembly not only on that law but long before that. So she was against it, i.e. She did not want to vote on the same because they obviously thought it was better to have a debate here today in the way they started to apply it. This law is in force, and when we passed it we clearly said that we wanted to depolitize and further professionalise the public administration because we were doing it both in 2009 and 2010 and 2011 but then the SDP came and we heard the same story again today, when we came, we'll all go back. It's one of the reasons why they never need trust because they don't want the professionalization of public administration, they still think it's politically lazy for every carrier of a future government or of the present or any future and they did it when they came. They brutally replaced all those who had any position in the state administration, agencies, institutes, institutions, ministries, all in a row, to the cleaning lady. And they didn't have to explain how their right was actually. Today, when professionalization is offered again, for the second time, they say you will abuse it to create arguments for yourself, don't God ever again to appear here and to speak the same way and do the same things. We've clearly told this government that we're going to cut down or we're going to go ahead with the abolition of 54 agencies, institutes, institutions. We said when we talked about this Law on the State Administration System, that through all the changes we're going to make to the counties about 200 new powers. That we're going to lift the i.e. reduce the number of state bodies when we transfer state administration offices from 52 to 32 and will remain ministries, 5 central state offices and 7 state institutions plus 4 independent institutions. That we will reduce the number of assistants and all government officials from 177 to 81. That's the number of 96 ministerial assistants as a less senior official. Today we're listening, you're preparing for the next election, you're creating yourself a field through public administration for the next election, even though we clearly said that they're being elected to the mandate and that at some point they'll probably be re-elected or that they'll be able to be replaced, but we heard again what we didn't want to hear from the SDP, we'll do the same again. It's the thinking of a party who considers itself the leader of the opposition in this House, the way they think about the system of state administration. So we don't trust anyone, all those people who have been working for tens of years in the ministries, who are now at a loss, or tomorrow there will be candidates in public competitions, who may be running some sectors, who may be running some departments or are head of departments, etc., who are very familiar with the problem. The system that has just been applied and we know, at least I know because I witnessed it, who was behind me at the head of one administration, means the man from that administration who's been professionally in that administration for over 20 years, has nothing to do with the party. They came and replaced everything, not what they were replaced, but they abolished that administration. They haven't been able to show power to the authorities and now we come here to explain to everyone what we're offering through these amendments to all 61 laws. We do what the Prime Minister says all the time. So the first prime minister to sit and talk to all the mayors, already 6 times in these 3 years, means at least twice a year in different cities, from Zagreb, Rijeka, Zadar, Požege, etc. Chairman of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, where we follow the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, worth nearly 20 billion, means direct contact with all mayors, the mayors of the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. Permanent dialogue with associations of municipalities and associations of cities. Within a year, all preparations have been made and the State Administration System Act has been passed as the basis for trusting businesses but it is harmonised to say 64 laws which will be in 2 months. Some have said it's impossible, first we've done all the similar laws to bring back the State Inspectorate system, where some have abused it and broken it to pieces and now we're trying to solve the issue of state administration. It is co-ordinated in parallel with state administration offices on the status rights of officials, which will be up to 1. Ten. In 2019, to declare the termination of the service, 950 employees, the subsistence shall meet the conditions laid down in the decision. And that's what the secretary of state said. It shall also be coordinated for the counties and counties with all elements of the dispute and contributions under the Agreement which shall take over items, applications, equipment, vehicles, contracts, premises, etc., etc. The minister's been to every county, we've heard that. All just so that when we pass all these laws, yes of 2. 1. In 2020, the system can function normally again. Some will say this isn't a reform, we heard a gentleman say we'll just change the camps. But we listen to it all the time and when they say it's a savings, they say it's not, if we say in numbers 350 is more than 320, they say it's not. How do you even deal with such arguments or with such lies? For severances, 150 million kunas are secured. Which of those 950 officers will leave, will determine themselves but will go away, there will be fewer of them than there are now. Now we've heard, but they'll have bigger salaries because they're going to the county. Could a city or municipality have a higher salary than someone in the county? Is the municipal chief allowed to have any higher salary than any official in the county at all? Why are we even going into that field that we as politicians determine who should have the pay in that part? What is it now negative to the county that asked to receive these 200 new powers? Now we hear, now it's political preparation for some future elections. So who's telling us? Those who don't have a single county had two local self-governments, now one mayor's out, now they've only got one municipality left. Or some who only have two counties. I don't see that argument. Why don't we give the county some more powers that they're asking themselves to do? They're aware they can be closer to the citizens. And now that that's been offered, of course, it's no good. The number of county employees will now increase. It will. We've got 2200 of them, and now there's going to be 2,000 more, so 4200. But this will also be followed by funds that will ultimately be sufficient and smaller than those that have now been spent on state administration offices. I think we've made it very clear that what we're doing makes sense. And that this should continue and that citizens should recognise what is required of the public administration. Professionality, responsibility and non-lithicization. If that's the case, I don't see a problem why this wouldn't work. And now we have certain offices that were in front of the county. And it's working. And it's working. So this story can only be out of ignorance and therefore, out of the need to speak only to speak or to be what none of us expect, and always this assembly turns into that. One politician said a long time ago, unfortunately he's not among us. Keep Croatia from hate and lowness for me. The lowness has already entered this space, the question is given for this second term. Because what we're listening to today in this first law, but also in all these laws, is really trying to make some kind of personal reckonings, difamation, one good attempt, and all the government measures that go in that direction, humiliate and prove that everything that's going on in this country doesn't make any sense. And the numbers show different. We can watch them, they can't lie, every day, every single one of them from their own corners. They're all positive. So this story about reforming the state administration, transferring powers to the county and making sense and is one of the reforms that will contribute to making the system of public administration better, more professional and, of course, more effective tomorrow. The HDZ Club will support the amendments to all 61 laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149893	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149894	The Honorable Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. Allow me, while the chairman didn't just do it to address Secretary of State Nekic briefly. Don't react so nervously, harshly, address MPs with heights, angryly, tell them they're lying. It's not good. You, as State Secretary of the Ministry of Administration, should know by heart the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and among other things, you know that you from the executive authority have a lower level of legitimacy because you are appointed in relation to the parliament chosen by the people. And on the other hand, you, from the executive authority, answer to the parliament. You know, the Croatian people decided to send 151 people to this High House who in some way had delegated the right to speak both nonsense and falsehood. It's not for you. You are left with the possibility of reacting to incorrect allegations and correcting them, but not accusing MPs of lying. That's not good for you. And another very well-intentioned suggestion. Don't talk about the minister. You've been up and down three times so you don't think he's bad. You know, in all analysis psychologically, it just means something to you the opposite of that. If you want him well, since you think he's just arrived and has no experience so he doesn't have to be here because you have to do it because you've been carrying this whole project, then don't mention him in that context because you're actually imposing on him a burden that he obviously didn't deserve. As for this package of laws, I am fascinated by the easy access to this when you say, Mr. Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, that this package brings decentralisation and decentralisation. So, you know, there's a lot of things you can call yourself, you know, you can call a cow painting a cow, but it's still just a picture. In this particular case, you assure us that 2 hundreds of powers are coming down from the state level to the county level and you call it decentralisation, you know, it's pure manipulation. In fact, most Croatian citizens in all research so far are demanding that the counties lose the role they now play. Some ask to be abolished. Some are looking for regionalization. Anyway, imagine what the answers would be, here I won't prejudge them because you know them by heart, if you asked the citizens of the Republic of Croatia the first question, do you want the number of employees in the state administration to be smaller? Here, you can guess from twice what you'd answer. Second question. Do you want the number of county employees to be higher? You have two options again. Do you want the public administration system to be reorganized so that one third less people work in it and it's more efficient than it is now? You may say it's impossible, but if it's impossible then step up with these employees a higher level of efficiency. So you're right. You're trying to do one reform but don't be nervous you have enough hands in the assembly you can do whatever you want and you'll do this. I'm saying you're right because reform means reshaping. So we can roll this paper any way we want, he'll stay paper this size. You know what the real change is that this one's torn in half and one half toss and I only have one half left. These are changes, if you want both real and structural. What you're doing is reform. Furthermore, you're leaving from a completely wrong premise. How to reorganize the existing system in a way that employees at the address and command to the address b, and not from the basic, which is how to work together at the address a and b, say 20% less people, given the size of our country, on fiscal capacity, on real powers. So, if you had answered the fundamental question of how much functional public administration we have, what does it deliver to citizens, and what is our goal, what do we want to achieve? We see nothing from this but that decisions are made at lower levels, what you call decentralisation, so that's what happens in the county. Costs, you handle one piece of information, we deal with the other. Let's just say the public administration offices in several counties are in such a bad shape that traditional cities and municipalities buy them computers, buy them furniture, buy them toilet paper. Now imagine when you give them these offices with all these people how happy they will be that they have to invest first to bring the level of the space they already have in their other services and to correct the wages. So he'll be very happy that you gave them this gift. But of course the catch 22 is that you want to continue to distribute money. You didn't approach them fairly, so you said listen, we're going to increase the original incomes of those who will deal with it, and we're not going to give them, but it's going to be their income to make sure that if they already have 200 more powers to deal with it. As far as efficiency is concerned, you know when you have a person in the state administration's office whose job is the voter's register, so whether there's better things to do in this world, Banja Koviljača. Reference to the voter's register. You know how much a man sweats at that job, it's a miracle one especially before choosing those few days before the register is locked down. If you know I'm a single-data liar, I'm sure you'll deny me because you like to correct this by what the MPs say is that you claim to be a lie. Five years ago, in the offices of the state administration in the drawers, there were 9,000 claims for the return of property. How many do you think will suddenly be solved? Here is between these laws that you have come here and the Law on the return of property from the communist system, kidnapped at the time of the communist system. The largest asset is property of land communities that has not wanted to return for 30 full years. Now we'll see how fantastically fast this is going to go, they'll be back to all those who filed the motion nine years ago or 10 or 12 years ago. You say 500 people are leaving. We're also turning into a pension system, they're going to become young pensioners, and here's all the luck we're negotiating now and that variant at the level of the ministry and the social partners that they can continue to work, but they're going to receive people's pension. Look how you screwed them up. Furthermore, the number of county employees with this move will double, double. They rightly warn some colleagues that these are maneuvers that are permanently concrete to the county system and should be said. The HDZ will never agree to reduce the right position, authority and part-circuit of the county until the stone is on the stone, and God forbid it will, because it is not in his interest. Now let me say something about depoliticization. You know, this scenario that you've installed in these laws, unfortunately, isn't original, we've already seen it here in 2007. So the government of Eve Sanader did the same thing you do. In December 2007, the law under which 204 officials in the rank of ministerial assistants, head of offices and directors of state administrations were seconded to the director's posts. How do you view or imagine in HDZ this depolitisation? You want me to tell you? '90s. It's not like there's anyone in the state administration who hasn't been a member of the HDZ for years. Find me six people who've been hired, I'll take you out for a drink. '99. 5,000 HDZ members were admitted to the state service for years, you know what the first measure of the Ivica Racan government was when it came to power in 2000, a ban on public administration employment. 2007 204 you turned government officials overnight into civil servants and now you're doing it again with these 96. Since it is not clear that depolitisation is not achieved so that only HDZs are allowed to work in the state administration, it is not depolitisation, it is departementisation because only one party participates in the story. And the more you're selfish, the more you don't even give to others, and God forbid party membership isn't a criterion at all, and this turns out to be, these 96 are all HDZ members. So why would one of them become an assistant minister if he hadn't been near the altar and had not warmed up well on the political fire of this government? Prime Minister Plenkovic promised this measure, so depolitisation in terms of here is no longer going to be assistants and as soon as he is appointed or elected here and confirmed as prime minister, 3.g. You've been waiting not to have it wrapped up a little bit in these other stories that have to do with county offices, so now that looks like a major reform. It's about people having to know who's being funny and changing power, you're making it impossible all the time, every time you change the government, you do something that makes it impossible to actually change political power, now it's going to turn out that political people are just ministers and state secretaries, and when they change tomorrow, and everyone else who works at the ministry, especially the directors of the administration that came straight from HDZ are very, very close to them, loyal to them, and they're just going to implement the government programme where they're sitting. Come on, please, when that happened, never and will never happen, the left liberal government never succeeded because they welcomed the reinforced concrete and the first decision they made was not to hire anyone, so they wouldn't accidentally damage and spoil the peace of you HDZ workers who work in public administration. I'm very interested in how many people work in HS? We could never find out, nor do we have the right to ask, we can only ask the prime minister, he has no idea, but God forbid we ask some president HS, how many people here are even doing, how they got hired, who took these great advisors on boards, we know about clubs, the parties' clubs choose, how they leave, but on these committees, how many people here are doing and why so many people need on us 151s? Do we really have a 4's on each of the assistants' disposition? I would very much like to know which four officers HS is helping me, it would be very easy and much easier for me than right now, now I am very miserable alone, so I'm not sure that it's your intensity, you would certainly want me to do my duty as God commands, with a lot of good and smart information, useful, to arrive at everything, and not I'm poor at everything, so imagine, I don't believe that it's in your best interests. People, let's be clear, when HDZ thinks about depolitisation, then make sure that only they can participate in it and so just say honestly that we don't lie. It's depoliticization, and decentralisation only makes sense if you strengthen municipalities and cities, but not of course by this model 500 units of local self-government, but by a functional model, it needs to have power, it's a real change, it's a grip on what reform of all reforms or real change says, it's creating a cheaper, more efficient, faster public administration, it's certainly not. I congratulate all the municipalities who are not HDZ's who will now get over the night 100, 150 HDZ's in their county administrations, that will be great because I am 100% sure that they are top professionals and excellent in their work, so far they have shown in the efficiency of the Office of State Administration, so I want them to contribute to the functioning of the county and even better. And as for our relationship with the government, we are very pleased that you treat us this way, so again I repeat that message from the beginning, don't every time, and don't at every single exposure, it doesn't have to be your last, because you know very well that it's going to be the way you thought it would be, so don't all see how you're charmers to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149895	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State Darko Nekic will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I'm not nervous at all, so I'm going to react mildly and normally, to the appearance of someone like the Bull's representative I'm going to react the way I reacted. And as for the fact that I'm telling someone he's lying, I saw a photograph, so Mr. Bulj shows a photo from Sibenik yesterday, and all of you and the Croatian public want to convince you that it happened today. I'm sorry, but I can't call it a different dictionary, I've never used expressions not telling the truth or anything like that, I'm saying or lying or telling the truth, right. In this case, I must say that Mr. Bulj is lying, unfortunately you may not like it, but that's a fact. So, the management minister was in Sibenik yesterday, and today he will be in Zagreb, with a bus that promotes digitisation in Croatian society. As you know, it means one of the most important jobs of the Ministry of Administration, I'm sorry that Mr. Franic is not here, so let me tell him something about digitisation, but one of the most important jobs of the Ministry of Administration is exactly digitisation. So, we are currently implementing around 600 million means kuna worth of digitalisation projects of the Republic of Croatia, the Digital Services Center 350 million kuna, signed contract, so the works are under way, at the 11th month will be released into circulation. The e-business platform, the e-tax platform, are completed at the end of the 9th month and will be presented soon. That's the answer to what Mr. Franic said, so who says nothing is happening in terms of digitization, you haven't done a niche of 880 million kunas and so on. So, as far as the minister is concerned, I've been very specific, what you're trying to do, so some of the MPs who used to say before, means that you're trying to twist what I said, that's something else. That's legitimate, you have the right to do it, but I've been very precise. So the minister has other obligations, today he was in the government, so there are other obligations that were previously agreed, we didn't know that the debate would be today. So that's the notice we got recently when we got the agenda. Well, I suppose you're allowing the minister to have some obligations that he must fulfil and which he planned significantly earlier. So, as far as original incomes are concerned, you well know that original incomes cannot be given for entrusted jobs. So these jobs are entrusted to the county, they trust and they can do trusted jobs, the county will get the funding, so as I explained at the beginning, it seems to me that you haven't been from the very beginning, maybe I'm wrong, so the way I explained it in my opening statement. As for the concreteization of the county system, I am sure you know that the Ministry of Administration is currently implementing another European project called Optimization of Units of Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. So, system optimization, so that's the project that's in the public administration development strategy that you just called us for means that we're not realising that strategy. The project is projected for 20 million, lasts 24 months. And this project will show exactly what you've been talking about, how many units are sustainable, how many and how many incomes there are, how they can function, so you don't expect the Ministry of Administration to make a decision over the knee about this or that unit of local self-government being unsustainable. So that's the project when it's over and the contract's signed at the 11th month. Last year, so it lasts 24 months, 11 months. In 2020, this project will show the real state of the units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia and only based on these scientific and project facts can we possibly make some decisions about it. So as for your statement that no one did, you said to me that nobody in the '90s and I don't know when they could have hired without HDZ, so right now I know a few assistants who aren't even members of the HDZ, and I don't want to bid them with their names, right? What you're saying isn't true. Here, I tried in these few sentences, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149897	I thank the Secretary of State. We have several replicas, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149898	Honorable secretary of state or shadow ministers, you're constantly drowning your minister, showing he's incompetent because it's more important for him to be here on the bus today in Tomislav than to be here defending one of the most important laws you say the administration is now implementing. On the other hand, a man took office at 7:00. I mean, if you put a minister who's capable, I guess in two months. can pass and see what is important in this strategy, or in these legal changes, that it can defend it today. And secondly, as far as the county and the county were concerned and why they were created, I'd like you to know before you start saying that what you're doing right now is great, I'd warn you of one text from a respected professor. Koprića, the role of the county in the Croatian system of local self-government, the administration of the 1990s, where it was very clear that the counties in this area are inefficient and HDZ's entanglement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149899	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149900	Thank you very much. I once again claim that the county is the greatest evil that has happened this way that happened to the Republic of Croatia. I can also confirm that with demographic indicators... It was founded in Split-Dalmatia County that in Dalmatia the population is 110 000, nor care about islands, the only thing they care about is the concessions of maritime goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what you're saying all the time is that you need to strengthen and give it to the county. Well County, now... said, here's the video that came out, i.e. And Mayor Boban has admitted publicly to the cameras that he has interfered with contests on the selection of directors of home health in order to preserve him, destroyed health care, destroyed education and the method of appointment I will speak to you individually but I have no time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is exclusively a law for HDZ personnel, and 180 of you directors are now appointed at the end of the term of office at the end of the four years. You're afraid of defeat and you have to get caught, that's all this law gives you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149901	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer, Secretary of State Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149902	So I'm not going to go into your securities, I just have to repeat for the 100th time, so we don't appoint any 170 principals. So right now, there are 96 ministerial assistants and 96 management directors will be appointed. I think I did it the 25th time today, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149903	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for your reply. Let's go to the next line, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149904	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you one more time, don't defend the minister because you're doing it in a way that you're really nailing him. Does everyone really need to know that you have a problem with this? So I know that a man came to the government to do nothing so he couldn't spoil anything because the ministers appointed recently must hold water until at least the EU presidency passes. So they can't do anything to make a mistake, so they better be on the bus than here. Furthermore, what you just said, it's a crucial thing, so the funds are being allocated because the powers are being entrusted, it's catching you, and this is not decentralisation, this is delegating you. It's just like outsourcing to you, so this year I'm going to take a company that's going to clean up and next year someone else's because I'm not going to clean up anymore, but I'm not decentralisation it, it's just a delegation that you can take away whenever you want. And at the end of the optimization project, I want you so much that you don't have to do optimization, but some... Trouble makes a government where there won't be a HDZ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149905	I thank my colleague Richembergh. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149906	Thank you. In addition to saying once again that it is better for the minister to walk on a bus around Croatia anywhere today in Croatia instead of hiring some young people to talk about the necessary meaning of the digitisation of Croatia, you consider it to be his place, not today where what has happened since the start of the mandate, but you have said in some way that even the Minister of Demography does not do his job because then she should have told the Government what needs to be decentralisationd because the government has just transferred those powers. There was another important thing to decentralise, which is that the county controls the homes of older people where you now know only a few inspectors carry out surveillance over 500 homes for older and powerless, which means that there is no surveillance and there is a real abuse of our older citizens and no one controls it. It was supposed to be done by the minister, and she didn't ask the government to make a decision to decentralisation it. So that's what you're wrong about. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149907	I'd like to thank my colleague, Strenja. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State may even have some justification for the current minister of this administration, but it is not clear to me where the former minister is now in the parliamentary benches, would he not be competent and professional to defend this law since he was the minister of most of the time, instead Mr. Boris, who did not speak at all about the law of any other political option, Mr. Buljo, about MOST, the SDP. So I have a question for you where is former Minister Lovro Kuscevic?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149909	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for this replica. We're moving on to the next debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club... which... I apologize, my colleague Bacic, you're not registered. We move to the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149910	But let this happen, too. I'm so glad my colleague Bacic didn't get his word. So, first of all, first of all, here's the minister here everyone mentions, and really here's a colleague of Sladolev's, you've made a good point of every honor, so Kuštević here is gone, and he's, like, three years old, no matter how much he's prepared this law. Hello? Well, isn't it logical that he's standing here talking about him because he's more competent? It's a little funny here for colleagues from the ruling coalition, a little bit of them sitting there, a little bit there, instead of pushing into the Legislative Committee, they have to be here. So that's it? And I think it's something that makes sense. So, as for the new minister, well and other laws, the Secretary of State's defense. Why are you apologizing? The man didn't want to come and it's his decision, he has the right to come or not to come. Right? So that's his attitude. So he didn't come and that's fine. I mean why now, so I know some ministers we've never seen here. Bozinovic has never been here, ever. He doesn't want a man to come. For what reason does Bozinovic never come to the assembly? We should ask him when he gets here. So only when the current clock shows up is otherwise he never defended any law, he doesn't want to come. But I say it's legitimate, it's a minor problem. A fellow Boris spoke here, I'm sorry he's not here, he's gone completely so he's gone so he's gone there somewhere, so he's going back so he's a little against SDP, and I'm going here because he's opened up a little bit of Pandora's box anyway to tell everyone who's still following this, so maybe we put it on social networks, here's a message to Mr. Boric don't attack a future coalition partner, it's not pragmatic. Maybe at this point it's a little pragmatic so you'll pick up a little bit of the right-hand voice, but you'd better all get close to the center and it'll be easier for you later. And even my colleague Richembergh was attacking HDZ, and he was actually there because I didn't realize if a colleague of Richembergh was now in SDP, in GLAS somehow let him and he fit a little bit on the ball because he's also a potential coalition partner so that there shouldn't be too much coming in. What I would say here, and now about the metrics at last. So, 2000 is being transferred to county state officials, right, 650 gets severance fees, is that good talk, a circus of at least 650 and those 650 that gets severances that are all meaning old people, old people. What frames? Who got the job when? Let's do a little math in the '70s. So communist, right? So now we're giving as many as 200,000 to those with SKH membership cards, we're giving them 200,000 kunas and we're taking care of them, right? Well, that's one logical structure. I think that's it. So instead, but I haven't heard the SDPs defend their team in fact HDZ's, you know that out of 100,000 97,000 former SKH members went to HDZ, it's okay, it's legitimate and it's okay, it's just that it needs to be said constantly, constantly. Of the 220,000 HDZ members, 97,000 were in the SKH. That's great. There are people who aren't. My father was in HDZ never a member of the Communist Party of Croatia. So, as far as I'm concerned, now the savings, now that's the one we're gonna save, we're gonna save. How are we gonna save it? Well, the county has bigger salaries than the state. It's not my fault that people have money, but let's just say we increased people's wages a little bit more. So county salaries in all counties are higher than government salaries, so no savings you have bigger expenses just don't have it directly shown but you have an indirect display. And now she's the key one that's actually rarely anyone's talking about, and that's said the county can have a budget, to single out as much as 25% for employees, is that how it works, and nobody's saying it doesn't count for employees in various agencies and institutions. So today every county has 100's and 100's, not exactly 100's and 100's, but many of these agencies and institutions that are not shown in the mass of employees. And now we're putting these new employees in the whole story. Now the third thesis, and then I'll let my colleague Glasnović go. Here we are talking about the assistants of 96 becoming directors of the administration, will there be a need for competitions for this place in the future? Yeah. The secretary of state doesn't answer me, here's a list, I don't know if he knows, you can nod me if yes, this is no, this is yes. No, but he didn't give me a sign, you know? I think you should be after the clerk, right? But why don't we have a contest now? Now we'll transfer them all to the principal without a contest. Huh? And there's going to be a contest? All these people will be admitted. And there's going to be a contest? And how do you know that the 96 will be admitted? I wonder if anyone's going to get fired. Here's what we want to bet, dear fellows, let's bet that none of the assistant ministers are gonna end up on the street and that everyone's gonna be the best fit for that job. I'll bet you one. So that's interesting now, let's wait, I think I'm right. Look, you're in power, you're in position, and you can really make fun of us and make fun of us, and you can do what you're doing because there's the citizens who gave you the confidence that you're doing it and you're doing it really well and just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149911	Thank you, colleague Zekanovic. Continued debate on behalf of the club, respected colleague Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149912	Dear colleagues. I haven't listened to the whole debate, I've had some other assignments, but there are 233,000 and more employees in public authorities, according to some data. How many of these characters are artificially employed? You remember the former South, a little bit of work, a lot of stealing, four heads coming to work, three sitting around watching this fourth one work. That mental set is unfortunately left behind and nobody's talking about it because you're afraid to talk about the mental heritage of communism, that's what you're afraid to talk about. And we always compare ourselves with Romania, Bulgaria, and they are all at the bottom of the corruption index. Why? That's where the ten orders were, buddy. Get on with it. But Romania is ahead of us. We now hope that this new structure will be transferred from the state administration by some personnel in the county's power that it may improve work and efficiency at operational level, tactically. I doubt if we've seen any of it before. What have we seen so far? We've seen one structure that says in an army that looks like this, when you have all the logistics, and you don't have an army to rock up, it's called all tails without teeth. We got that today, we could've worked it out a long time ago, we could've worked it out. There's no continuity, there's a left wing of the party, there's a left wing of the party, there's a right wing of the party, and they're just changing the frames, and they're playing smoke curtains, and they haven't solved anything. Here's the state mechanism for how it's worked so far? Here's how it worked. We've got a yard of 30 billion kuna in losses. What about local self-government, what's their role? And the state as many as 14% of the shares hold. And where are your surveillance mechanisms? Agriculture 100 billion kuna. Where are the goats, goats and other opgs, plums, orchards? Nowhere. What I said before is who's from the former system, and you're here to collect a tractor,... buy a tractor for 500 thousand euros, and don't plant anything, and pull the money in your pocket. That means, I've heard it 50 times, we've got the perfect laws but by the time they get down to tactical level, you've got nothing, it's like these salon guards sitting there in the halls, eating at lunches, encouraging themselves to be good, and at the end of the performance, nothing. You're all to blame for whoever's been in power so far. Glasovic and Zekanovic have not been in power so far. That's right. ... I'd say you have a medical shortage, so how many schools are there for 65,000 employees, health care for 65 grand. ... gave everyone at least to redecorate you at the local level, rectal thermometer and there to clean your buttocks so that you can get involved at the tactical level in those hospitals rather than sit there on Swedish tables and eat and talk nebulose. I would recommend in the end this way that the money would better be spent by the Croatian State to establish mobile courts that will go from municipality to municipality and to activate the duty of a judge of investigators who will investigate the case and trial on the spot. And let's not wait 15 years for this sort of thing about... the escape of Vidosevic who is now on the loose, who pulled the money, this contessa Merzel from Sisak, it's yours, I think that Vidosevic... is running from HDZ, then you have the viscount Sanader, and then you have your heads here. Every day someone is accused of corruption and nothing to anyone. That's what people watch and get from you PTSD, but your version of PTSD has been drinking, eating, drinking, is that how you've been eating since '45? You see those heads, you've got those heads like that Stan Dolenz. Yes, movable courts, here comes the tax collector, the origin of the property on the spot. If you have what you have, how much you earn. You've all pulled something, everybody's a pain in the ass. And now you have new laws for us since the 1990s. I'm glad that one of the former UDBA associates here has raised the question of seduction, good for you. We disagree, but it's an honor for courage. Taken away property, that'll talk about it tomorrow, you have here a party of HSS from '47. year, your chief commissioner Bernardic said the most frightening sentence ever in the Croatian Parliament. No one's raised because some heads... are illiterate. He said we have to pay back the debt of collectiveization from '45. You know what that means? It means for your patients who suffer from anal... Inversions, look at a little book, tens of millions of deaths from starvation to death in Ukraine, China. Well, that's great for you, you love that system, some have pictures up in the attic, not from a bloody locksmith, but this King Peter maybe, pure... Now, first of all, I'm almost done here, but I need special prisons for these business criminals, retroactive privatisation measures and this and conversion, and, of course, this one needs a simple law to confiscate property that's been criminally acquired, you have that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all simple, and you didn't want to, and you're putting the smoke curtains down on us, as they say in the army, and I apologize to the young ladies, you're putting smoke down our asses. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you, you can have the most perfect computer program, but if you put it in a computer that is 2 and 2 five, it's all wrong, that means you need a whole remont of this system, you need to evaluate this head, I'm going to mention again when I tell Minister Horvat where security checks are, where, if it's money on bank accounts outside and you're going to tailor this, you're going to make new laws, how, you have to start with yourself, you have to take an example and what I said here, it's all simple, it's new prisons, I might suggest that these business criminals from the Republic go to Russian prison and put them there in cells with these Chechens there, people, when they get drunk and, it's a good measure to stop business crime. This is how he steals 20 million and no one, here's this for Miss Merzel your contessa there is that SDP or this HNS, the Croatian people's shame, I don't know what party it is, how many years it's been dragging, 10 years, so you're real terrorists, you're doing not only business, economic and financial crime, but intellectual crime, and there's, there's laughing this Mr Kovac, I think, it's funny to him, from Međimurje, it's, there's a lot of red cameras up there, then maybe he was Tito Jugend.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149913	Comrade Glasnović, I am asking you nicely to adjust your expression to this high house and I remind you that you too have been participating in power while you were in HDZ, do not forget it, and you... My colleague, Mr. Glasnović, you have not received your word. [[/Glasnović's infatuation doesn't make sense.]] We're moving on to the next club on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club... You're looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149914	Yeah, I'm looking for a break... Insults my dignity. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149915	Here's your colleague, Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149916	You don't have to. Now, Mr. Brkic, I've been appointed by you to know for all eternity, I've come in, not HDZ, but I've come there to advocate the Association of Gojko Sušak. You didn't want me there, but I got into a second term besides yours, why? Can't you control me and let go of those smoke curtains, I was born at night, I wasn't born last night, don't insult my intelligence, I'm here... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149917	About what...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149918	I'm a general, and you're a lieutenant or... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149919	Comrade Glasnović, what are you looking for a break about?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149920	I already explained what... I'm looking for a break, over. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149921	Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning and you have no right to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149922	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149923	We're moving on to the next Club of Representatives... Comrade Glasnović, please. We're moving on to the next club, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149924	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Glasnovic thought he had that voice of opinion, so he got a little confused. Democracy costs, we can't run away from that fact, so again in the Croatian case it could be much, much cheaper. In the Croatian case above democracy is party entanglement by municipalities, both in cities and in counties, a lot of money, minimum responsibility, and today it is local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. And before we begin to measure these 67th laws that can be drawn under one line, we are preparing to lose the election, but we are doing everything we can to win these elections and it is very clear why the HDZ wants to do what it does. A colleague, Boric, here in his pledoa, accused the SDP government that when she came to power, she turned the system around and that it was bad, and HDZ is doing the same thing now. So it goes back to that part of it that they imagined the state administration should look like, and obviously it's a sign that we're already sitting at the table once and seeing what state administration should look like. There is no savings here because all those working today in the state administration's offices will get 20% higher salary and that's the preparation of HDZ for the elections will they vote for HDZ, so that if another government comes, they'll get them back to the state, and they've got less 20% less wages. This is also a very clear politicisation of the system because the directors will be former assistant ministers, I am very interested in all of them who will end up as director of the administration, and who will be taken care of in another position in the ministry, I am sure none of them will lose their jobs. And the farce with the competition that's trying to set up here is just such a fine-tuning democracy, but by law, who chooses the director of the administration? Minister. Therefore, this is only the financing of democracy, all assistant directors will be re-elected, and certainly those who decide to have one will not be chosen, they decide to have a career elsewhere. Why the politicisation of the HDZ administration is immutable because it is also seen by the head of the State Inspectorate as a person who not only has a HDZ membership card but is also the president of the largest HDZ organisation in the state of the city organisation Zagreb. And it's nowhere in the world, the state inspector everywhere in the world is apolitical and function and apolitical person. We have come to an extreme that not only is he a political person but he is also a highly ranked party official. What HDZ is now doing with this law or these sets of laws is something that will make a hybrid of the mayors because the mayors will be in a constant conflict of interest and what is also important to me is to say that the question of how they will even deal with this constant everyday conflict that will have inside of them because they will be doubled personalities. They will be on the one hand a local official and on the other hand will be a state official who will obviously make peace in some cases but in some cases they will not. And the question is who will prevail in that mayor whether a state official or a local official. It's all something that came out of this hasty HDZ proposal that I want to show that it's doing some administration reform, but apparently they haven't read an article by a respected professor. Koprića, who is very clear in a comprehensive article, state secretary 25 pages, as it can be read very clearly, taxively wrote why the counties were first created, which was done by the counties in the 1990s, as it was compared to the citizens and why then in 2001 some of the counties were removed. It was very clear that the HDZ's intensities were to spread strong municipalities through the establishment of the counties because strong municipalities from that former non-national system, they say, because it was a danger that the party's authority would not be spread throughout Croatia and therefore the counties that had then spread strong municipalities. And then we split more strong municipalities into a lot of small municipalities to make it easier for the state to rule and to implement what HDZ wanted. And so today we have 555 units of local self-government and 428 municipalities, 127 towns and 20 units of local self-government, County plus City of Zagreb. Looking at these 555 individuals from today's perspective is good party entanglement, minimum responsibility for a lot of money. It is a pattern that has kept and defended the current establishment of local self-government units for years now. And when the people grew up to think that we need to reform the system of local self-government, to go to regions or rounding the county, that it seems we don't need 21 counties, but that we need much less, 5, 7, as much as we agree to HDZ is now going with this maneuver to concreteize this existing state. But of these 555 units of local self-government, some of them are not able to function alone without a grant from the state because what is coming in these units is not enough for the salaries of officials and all others so that the state still has to touch from the budget. The direct money of taxpayers is financed by these units of local self-government, so our policy in Croatia works, offering functions and synergy, and for any change this government is not ready and it will take, with taxes, from our wallets only to keep itself in power. Anything to preserve the sinecurs for the likes and the chosen. The abolition of the counties has been discussed for years, so now with what HDZ has proposed, it is trying to confuse the situation but it will not be so, there will come a time when we will talk very clearly about the structure of Croatia because the structure of the counties and the way of local self-government is stifling the development of Croatia. Not that our citizens live better, not that Croatia is going better and that we live better in Croatia. This knowledge is growing in citizens and HDZ will not be able to maintain such a situation for long. A major advocate of staying County is also President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who claimed any move to abolish the county would destabilise the country. Although the president did not explain what the abolition would mean, which, why would it destabilise the country, it is quite clear that the counties serve to imprison party personnel and this would destabilise the obvious country because these party personnel would then turn towards, against the government, Plenkovic and HDZ. In order to justify the government before the European Commission for Indemnification of Reforms, the government has decided to drown the system of state administration in the county administration. From the looks of it, we have seen in Zagreb these days, we will again depend on the will of local sheriffs, again some requirements for building permits will remain deep in drawers, we will swim again in feces and lead to the knee when it rains a little bit higher but we will always have money for best men and their expensive construction projects. We see this in Zagreb and soon we will see this in other units of local self-government. As HDZ's mayors and counties function best, I quote: "I have arrested many known and unknown people. If we were to look at classical employment in terms of competitions, applications, references, then we could conclude for everyone that he's hired over a relationship. There's no one who answered for a job that didn't have a recommendation or a relationship. I wish I had caught them even more." Here's the whole philosophy of the county where most of it is owned by HDZ. The countries that were arranged as well as Denmark quickly realized that the county needs a local... minimised to serve citizens, so that citizens have a better service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And certainly that what is now being done in Croatia is no rationalization, we will not lift any local self-government, we will not lift any counties. And to point out that Denmark is very drastic with 5,000 units of local self-government reduced them to 98 and that it works quite well without great destabilisation, as our president said. In a few years this system would collapse one Switzerland because the state budget remains an infinite bag from which everything is paid and all and some systematic reforms no one seems to be ready. And to repeat, a lot of money, minimum responsibility, is today's local self-government in Croatia. With these proposals of the law, we raise this irresponsibility to a new level, all to preserve safe ports for entanglement of similar ones. This big budget, the influence of the state and this big model take everyone and give them to them, can literally be dangerous to the democratic structure of the state, not to reorganise or abolish the county, according to Plenkovic's puppet for the president of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Countys should be reformed, counties should be abolished without the move Croatia will not go on. All that HDZ has now presented is just another attempt to leave its people in reserve, in the county and in the cities in case the elections are lost, and then the government headed by the state simply does not have the leverage of rule because these levers of rule will be in the counties headed by HDZ mayors. And if it wins the elections then it will be another major lever to continue HDZ destroying Croatia and that as long as HDZ is in power, as long as this system of local self-government is in power, Croatia will not be governed, a country that will move forward. The only chance for Croatia to be a modern, orderly, transparent state is to abolish the counties and get HDZ out of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149925	I thank Mr. Mrsic. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the club of HSU, independent representatives and SNAGA's respected colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149926	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna start this debate with a story. In Slavonia, I believe it's not just Slavonia, but in Slavonia, I'm sure it is, we have a house we live in, then it's not rare to make so-called. The summer kitchen in which we cook something over the summer, so we have a shed one for wood, the other shed is for tools, someone has a garage, someone who lives in older households has some kind of barn, a barn ex. And then often when we clean the house or when we do something we move things, I forget to mention two attics, there's one attic in the house, there's one in the summer kitchen, so we move things that we don't need from one attic to another, into the summer kitchen, the shed, one, the other, and we're always kind of emotionally bound and never to clear it up. Let me guess if that household paid someone to tell such an impartial professional to come and clean it up so he can sort out a lot of things. Why this story? So that's why colleagues and colleagues are sure that reform and territorial reconstruction will never be done in this House. It's just impossible, never the politicians themselves will cut the branch they're sitting on. So that's impossible. The experiences of some countries show and there I don't even agree with my colleague Mrsic when he speaks, an example of Denmark that she has reduced the number, that this is just a path to efficiency. We have countries where there are more units of local self-government like France but it's not that, it's not just a question of numbers, it's actually a matter of jurisdiction and what these units of local self-government are doing. In the Republic of Croatia, 556 is not a problem, but the problem is what they actually do and how they do it. Ministers in the Republic of Croatia are a mess, there is a mess in the system of public administration, in the system of local self-government. And now you're putting civil servants into this mess, and that's the key to the problem I see in this law. You will, I'll say it on a concrete example. My fellow chief, from my municipality, who works, who is a professor, works at two schools, is also acting as mayor of the municipality as a volunteer, has a lower salary than if his fellow chief who does only this job and even with, he has a higher professional standing, in this case it doesn't have to be important. So, the same thing will now be with officials who were state officials, who would move to the locals with officials who were state officials who would move to the locals, they would have different salaries for the same job they do. Those salaries depend on, of course, the coefficient that determines, I think the mayor determines the coefficient, and the representative body confirms it. That's not a good message, Secretary of State. I'm asking you now when you're going to settle salaries in the Republic of Croatia at the level of units of local self-government? If that's not possible, then say it. And this transfer, giving the county's trust means directly to people that the same job will be paid differently. We in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia have regions in brackets, it's someone well noticed. So despite the efforts to change the Constitution, despite the intense talk of territorial reconstruction over the past 10 years, so the introduction of regions, which for the Republic of Croatia many experts would agree would be very good, none of it would move on. With this move, these 20 counties are cemented and, in fact, it is a minister, now former Minister Kuščević in the Croatian Radio show, I listened well and said when this law was proposed, it says this is an opportunity for the county to justify its existence. And in this way he actually said that the counties remain also by trusting the county's operations in the Republic of Croatia and thus will remain until further notice. What brings me as an advocate in some way, I won't say frustration, I don't have the right to be frustrated, but it certainly brings me into an awkward situation is that we have to vote, on committees we have, now we have this series of laws that are changing, and the government of the Republic of Croatia has a lot of right to regulate the system in such a way that it is the most functional and to be at the greatest service of the citizens of the Republic. Let's just say in folk terms, it doesn't matter what color cats only hunt mice, so does this. It doesn't matter, it really doesn't matter to the citizen whether it's a state administration office or it belongs in the county office, but it does its job. However, the county has not, the situation has shown so far, and I fear it will also be in the future, the counties are not the ones that will be able to do this job well. On the side and this story, and it will certainly be, there have been political staffing, Croatia is a small country, there are many and many political ties, a lot of family ties, nepotism, clientism, everything that follows employment, but of course it is not a good message that from this pay phone, it is not nice to say that only people who have fallen in love with the political way are working in the public administration. That's not good to say, it's important whether these people are doing their job professionally, well or not. Now it's moving into the county area, maybe someone this mean could say now they won't have to call the minister to speed up something but they'll call the mayor, but what the Ministry of Administration doesn't recognize is the fact that the blood count in the Republic of Croatia can be seen if we look at a report like the FINE or the IRS, so let's look at a little structure of employees in the Republic of Croatia. You know which counties are preceded by the number of employees in, in entrepreneurs it is 85.5%, Zagreb 82.5%, Varazdinska 82%, Istria 81% and Krapina-Zagorska 77.5%. And I agree here and in these counties this law is good, they will take over those entrusted jobs and work will. But let's look at the other picture. Countys with the largest number of employees are relying on budgets and budget users. Lika-Senjska 45%, City of Zagreb second place 36.6%, is now asking the question of state secretary perhaps from the fact that the City of Zagreb already has a role that you are now assigning to the counties, Sibenik-Kninska 33.7%, Sisak-Moslavica 31.4% and Vukovar-Srijemska 30.3%. Of course, Slavonian County is the same on that high average. So these are employees who are leaning on public budgets. That it won't happen to us tomorrow for the county to be our biggest entrepreneur in, I mean, the county itself as a management, in the entire county. So these are things that are recorded in the Republic of Croatia and this transfer of powers to the county will not change them. When we talk about these 500 people who say that they will be with the stimulating severances sent into retirement if they want to, of course, in response to the replica, you said that at that time there was no more of this, there was no referendum of everything that happened afterwards, and it really is now coming up, we are encouraging people to retire, on the other hand the prime minister says that all those who work can work until, I think even mention 68 years and indeed someone with the right to ask here, and what then will be if people take the severance whether they can go back to work or ask a question like this. How many people are going to work in the county now, and how many people are going to be more busy than they are now? Because if there are bigger jobs, who's going to provide funds for those salaries? It is now mentioned the 350 million figure, of course it is being reduced due to this departure of people from the system, but what will be next years with these funds from where it will move into the county and how the team will adequately pay them, of course, with the re-emphasis that the pay gaps in the counties are extremely large. The main message that the minister was also saying, the former minister of the current state secretary, which is three things that this law also ultimately seeks to introduce is decentralisation, regionalisation, rationalisation of pardon and digitisation. Unfortunately, there is no regionalisation personally, and I will reiterate that regionalisation of Croatia can indeed be the only time for the Republic of Croatia to make economic progress. We must link economic development to the development of individual centres that will be the bearers of this development. It's incomprehensible, I don't understand, we've talked here many times, even once the prime minister got angry with my question, said if this government, if someone doesn't talk to local self-government units, then it's this government. We have a case that today we are accusing local self-government units of not preparing projects, not doing their job, and in the end we are getting signals from local self-government units that their projects are happening regularly. The Ministry doesn't respect their projects. There's a lot going down. In the end, we will not use all those resources that are available to us and these procedures that are let's call them work-only reform, not enough for the Republic to launch, to put all units of local self-government into operation and to eventually live, not only those offices that will work but all of them, all those citizens and business entities who rely on them. So it is necessary to bring order to our units of local self-government, to allow them to do their job because someone has noticed well that many of them can't take over those decentralised functions that they could take over so far, they don't have enough resources, and then it happens that here already, in the field of education, even though they're building new schools that there's no toilet paper that children don't have, that teachers have to wear toilet paper, they simply don't have enough resources. As it will indeed be, the secretary of state when he takes over from the county and the offices, in which way he will find, find the means to make them offices and from practice it is visible that, many offices are abandoned. And if, I don't know how ownership relations will be solved if these are state offices, in fact, if the offices are owned by a state whether they're going to need local units, i.e. County pay rent on the team, for those offices. In the end, I will personally be restrained because I do not simply believe that these things will be resolved and become a lot of doubt about the financing itself in the future as County and then employees in those units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149927	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. We're going to the next club. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149928	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. As for the SDP's position on these 60 laws, it extends from abstention to non, it should now be listed and I would spend a lot of time listing all the laws on how we will declare them in the vote. I would like to say a few things, though, first, this package of laws is a continuation of our debate on the State Administration System Act and about 85% of the proposed laws are basically just a replacement of terms from the State Administration's office to the county's competent administrative authority or something like that. And there are a small number of laws that, due to the nature of the changes that are proposed, require a deeper, deeper procedure in the matter itself. Now I'd kind of like to say something about the so-called so-called. or not so-called reform in three aspects. The most visible political aspect is something that was therefore unacceptable to us at the beginning, and that is to change the architecture of the composition of the executive, managing structures in the central authorities of the state administration or in the ministries in such a way that the second level of governance of administrative organisations is returned to the official level again as in 2008 but not to the classical official level in terms of someone who has been in service for many years then progressing to the highest official position than can happen for someone who has just entered the service. For this reason, we have also submitted amendments to the Law on the State Administration System where we have proposed two things, firstly to prescribe 10 years of service for someone who would compete in this contest and secondly to have these provisions of the bill applied from the vote of confidence to the Government after the next parliamentary elections. This would prevent such a change from actually being a kind of cowardly egg, which is that the politically appointed persons in the post of assistant minister of legal change, and after that, by the procedure provided for by law, which is somewhat less strict than the one for the reception of the service to turn these political officials into officials. In fact, it would not have been for officials in the management posts but for politicians who had become officials in the meantime. We will closely monitor the appointment process in those positions and may announce that we will also ask the Committee of Conflict of Interest for guidance on the handling of ministers in cases where governments have to propose to the person they have already proposed to protect their dignity and in order to protect themselves from these things that the person whom the government has proposed politically will now have to make a non-political proposal to the Government and if this were to happen in 90 or 85, 90% of the cases, which is somehow the expected result, it would already mean that a single fraud has already been made which, as it should be said to blow in cold. However, we have already discussed this and we have already discussed this in the debate on the Law on the System of State Administration. Because I don't believe that ministerial assistants who run organisations that make up a significant pillar of the state administration are ready to go home after 3 years and that some other officials or some completely new ones come into their seats, that doesn't seem likely to make sense. Another feature of this reform is the transfer of jobs from officials to the county. Since different political parties have different views on what the role of the county should be and whether the county should even exist, there is no exception to my party and that such a position is most often dependent on the position from which it is seen. From the point of view of the transfer of jobs, therefore business will remain, will be done by some others, officials will generally remain the same, and will no longer be civil servants, but officials in the local self-government unit under the Law on State Servants and under the Law on Officials in Local Self-Government or just one of these laws. It can be agreedly transferred from state to local self-government so that it will be a small status change, but it is not irrevocable and can remain in the state service even before that. And as for retirement with severance, it can be done without the transfer of jobs. So every time there's a need for something faster by solving the number of employees, it can be done. But at the same time, the government let go of the procedure and a bill that would extend its stay in the service of officials who wanted to do so to 67. And now we have a case that we're going to encourage the officers and pay them to leave before the time or retirement with the severance, and at the same time we're going to encourage them to stay with the pay, so paying with this 0.34 per year for retirement, and we're going to increase them preferably to stay in the service. These are two completely contradictory situations where the government came in with one intention to do some kind of rationalization, and on the other hand the desire to somehow outsmart the unions on this referendum. So here we have one obvious illogicality. My colleague Kovac said in one replica that it was neither rationalization nor decentralisation, nor depolitisation, I did miss some expression, so he will explain it further in an individual debate, I will save some time. As for the number of officials, so the number of civil servants in the state service will be reduced by about two thousand, which is about 3% of the total number of employees, not 3, 4, 3 to 4% of the total number of employees. When we look at the number of public sector employees, it's about 1%, but it's not really because they're staying in the public sector just being transferred to the county. In this way, the government will lose its employment control mechanism in the counties after some time, because the number will fluctuate after they have moved to the county, so the mayors will be more broad-handed somewhere, so they will hire, somewhere they will not hire, but the government has lost that one number control mechanism. But what's most interesting is that on one hand we still have a ban on hiring two for one. Is that still in force in the civil service? We don't have it in the county, and this is trying to be a rationalization that may not be. Will it be? We don't know, but he probably won't. And then that mechanism of staying in the service longer because of changes in the law regarding pension insurance and civil servants we have for the elderly, and for the younger generation we have a ban on employment, which is another injustice. Therefore, this should also be taken into account in the reform. Something about the metrics, so I think it's the Law on Election Register so it'd be better if it were a lot of administrative jobs, the offices of the state administrations that were concerned. the personal situation of citizens, the issue of citizenship, the state queens, etc., should have taken this opportunity to transfer those businesses to the MUP, given that the ministry and, above all, the police, but also other administrative bodies already have their own structures on the ground and that it would have been better to join them to the departments of the MUP than to the counties, but this is now a matter of discussion and then, in that case, the register of voters and citizenship and the state queen and all others as a business of state administration in state bodies which I consider to be better. Let's say for associations no, some associations would really be logical to go to the county. Secondly, it also concerns the supervision of the legality of the general acts of the units of local self-government, so... the legality of the work of representative bodies etc. I think that the state unnecessarily took away one mechanism and one infrastructure that it had on the ground to make it easier, so not only from the aspect of the control of acts but also from the departure of inspection, etc., it should perhaps consider returning it to state authorities. And it should also be made simpler to which units of local self-government deliver acts they bring, not to control but to be state. So it is now prescribed that local self-government units should do so to the ministries, the ministry would be one point where all these documents of the local self-government units would come, and then the ministry should form its departments or sectors or departments to control the actions of the local self-government units, and even someone in the office who would deploy it. I think it's going to reduce the lawfulness of local self-government units. He wasn't perfect now either, but still the local self-government unit knew he had to deliver the head of the state administration's office, and now he knows he has to deliver it to one of the ministries, but they'll judge for themselves who. I'm sure there will be cases here, and even today we've had the case that the Minister of Environmental Protection was a law that was by nature in the Ministry of Labour, but he's from Ploč, and this isn't from Ploč, so that's how it happened. So if we have that in the Government of the Parliament, it's not logical to expect that it won't happen in 500 and some municipalities. If we have a case of a mayor whose municipality pays for a procedure against him by the State's Attorney's office, you can think about what we're going to have on this control right now, and I think it would be better if that were settled in another way. As this is a legislative procedure, as it is a large number of laws and only certain articles are being amended, it may not be that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest is changing that article which speaks of who the officials are, so the SDP Representatives Club has submitted an amendment to include members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia and Commissioners of the European Commission or Commissioner or now Commissioner of the European Commission from the Republic of Croatia. When the law was first passed we were not yet in the EU and there were no euro-parliamentaries, and then for a long time the law has not been amended. I think it would be logical, given that it is public duties, officials who go to the elections, who are also officials of political parties, who are in the nature of the work of politicians, are in favour of citizens, and are in the representative body of citizens, and this is not a representative body that has seven members in the 800-seat community than has 700 and some representatives for the whole of Europe and parallel to that of the European government and whose decisions have a significant impact on this standard of living of Croatian citizens, but whose behaviour also Croatian citizens assess from the aspect of politicians' behaviour that it is logical to correct this illogicality and that they also add to the list of officials. And quite accidentally or intentionally, it occurred to us that the moment when the Prime Minister accused the SDP of orchestrating some visa candidates first in the elections for the European Parliament, Mrs Shuice, and now also the candidate proposed by the Government for Commissioner of the European Commission, that she and all other politicians who must, as well as all other politicians, have answered some questions about the property in front of the body established by this assembly and, of course, give logical or illogical answers. Therefore, it certainly needs to be fixed, and as far as the prime minister's statement is concerned, that someone is instrumental or that someone is a abdominal, I hold that there, that there are logical questions that we expect as many logical answers as have been asked questions for other officials in the government this summer when we have not received logical answers or when logical answers have not been given. After a persistent defence, however, the prime minister had to be replaced by those ministers. According to this, we're rejecting any illusions or insinuations that we've instrumentalized anyone. I think it's logical questions and that the prime minister would be better off talking to them than disabling those who have asked questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149929	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149930	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again at the outset that it is more than embarrassing that one of the most important laws that will affect the lives of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, one of the most significant, is that here is not a minister but will be a guest on tonight's show Open, where the PR will now be preparing him to be good at the Open precisely on this topic now that we are talking about what is below every level of dignity of this home, distinguished vice president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This is about a very important reconstruction, not reform, this is more than one scheme, of course, that the minister came, I don't know exactly how long ago, and you could let him go, but the man is no longer a minister, but the current minister here is the tribal, but tonight at the Open, look at him, you'll see how ready he is, how he comments PR-ovski, how he defends it. However, the fact that all of these laws, 60th and a few laws that we currently have, are essentially just one purpose, i.e. Two. The first purpose is to ensure that the HDZ sets up its party base with this law, and I can confirm that not only by shutting down the ministerial assistant but also by having the directors there, and where you will also get the opportunity to appoint at the end of the term, you did not say 100 and something but 90 and something of the director who will take over the new power and of course you are leaving meaning your embryos inside, within the ministries. And that's not good, that's not a good message. And as for the county I would be the happiest if it were really a law to shut down the county regardless of what I was running for mayor, my only program was if I became mayor to shut down the county, here's my program because the Split-Dalmatia County was meant for itself. I'll give you just a few examples, about health care I won't talk about, the footage came out that Mayor Boban appointed himself, this mixed up in the appointment, these are the public's posts, he even said in the cameras that he influenced the appointment of directors i.e. Public tender. That's what you wouldn't even talk about, never worse health services. About what the county stands to worry about never worse. Women in the ranks were dying, we don't have enough doctors, because the money was invested in incriminating in the home of health, meaning in the administration, but it was certainly not an example of doctors having specializations, so 10 years without specialization we have now come to the fact that we don't have a doctor mostly pediatricians, all doctors. That's what forced me into politics in Split-Dalmatia County in my Sinj when he was incarcerated as a stationary, birthplace, everything shut down, but it's all under county. You know they're the founders of the county. So it is in itself a problem and now that you justify all the evils and crimes that have made the counties of the Croatian people, I am talking about the Dalmatian Zagora in particular now, from the draft county to ten thousand so far, there are fewer people in Dalmatia, 100 thousand people have fewer than Krka to Neretva. That's not why someone from space fell, during the Turkish conquest of all Venice, all of which were Austro-Hungarian, Serb, communist, fascist, all who had passed, the greater the evil done by the counties. First of all because of a bad message, and I'm going to give you one example, two. I'll let you know how it works. Here's the Split-Dalmatia County and doesn't know the number of employees, we don't have to get an answer because they don't want to say, they just receive every day, and they're hunting that people can't sit where they can't sit, so I even wore the mayor's chairs to have people, not to sit in the halls and on the grass in front of the county or in the cafes, to have where to sit. I even suggested that they expand towards the waterfront to raise the floor, building the county to have a place with all these people. And not just that. We have 4 PRs paid for the Split-Dalmatia County because when I showed up I then they have to write to the mayor every day for each portal and much larger funds are allocated to all portals. And not only that, I'm going to tell you about school, we're going to get a little school out of this. Not only that, you have thus functioned that even the county from its budget established its portals, out of its budget salaries to its council members who are now not absolutely, have never worked in schools and are now principals of schools such as in Sinj. But I'll talk about it on the Anti-Corruption Council, the county paid him to pay for the portal because I'm their problem, that portal, and it's like a defense portal, and that man has nothing to do with the defenders, of course he's a councilman. The president of the school board is the person who married the president of HDZ and now he's the headmaster, some degree was solved by the librarian and not only that, but his child got 3 from mathematics and he changed class teachers not to teach his child, the one who has a portal. That's how the county works. And we're not gonna talk about the maritime good, we're not gonna talk about the Gold War, but what the Gold War did is nothing that's happening in the county right now. It's exactly deployed, and I said it's called Boban County. You know exactly where his son is, what facility he's in, that's what he knows. Well, they'd be the easiest place to run from the county house. They don't need buildings and expenses. And you are now strengthening them, the kind of people who control where the mayor pays him for the director, who's a councilman of HDZ, the one who pays for his portal, hey, as a defense portal exclusively to muddle me or someone who bothers him. So the defense portal, absolutely, seems to me to be called knights some, I don't know, give me a name, I have that information but it's for the anti-corruption council and the wider topic where the money goes and where that freedom of the media is and how the mayors behave. You know how much money they spend on the PR, check it out, only for marketing. Once again, this is not about depoliticization, it's about politicizing the system and determining its personnel on the ground and entanglement, that's the first thing. In the last four years of office, in the last year of his term of office, the government wants these amendments to the law, you said that it's a little less than 100 ministerial assistants for permanent competition, but it's a story for small children, that Boban confirmed what kind of competitions they hire as directors for four years. So you're doing everything counter-interest and reform. This is not anti-reform, this is a continuation of demographic, economic, social whatever you want to kill people living in the county area who are absolutely done and are exclusively a party incubator. I repeat here, the cause of the departure of young people, doctors, co-worker Strenja is Linić doctor, doctor, all who leave are leaving because of the way mayor behaves and manages in Split-Dalmatia County. And I'm glad that Boric came here because he called me, I wasn't here at the time. I had a lot of... meetings rather than listening to someone who went into the Parliament as a replacement, so here they must be obeyed, I simply listened to a lot of these stories, Countys are death, gravediggers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was running for mayor, first my demand that I, if the people had chosen me, would have been to shut down the county. It's the biggest problem the Republic of Croatia is shutting down. So we have more counties than China together and the United States. China and the United States. And the main cause of death, departure, reduction of the number of people in Dalmatia, is the main county, the main one that exclusively finance their political municipalities, cities, exclusively operate, pre-election asphalting and thus function. That's not how the Communist party worked as much as they organized. As the system is, I'm telling you how the system was organized. I can say that because I live down there and I know how people live there and I know how you work and I know how you think. But to strengthen someone to justify their survival, in this way, to give such people to management, 67, you give everything to them in their hands, based on what, so stop, give local self-government powers, decentralisation towards local self-governments, not that the mayors and mayors and there were mayors here, my colleagues, have to lick the mayor, not be in political options different because they won't get the mayor's money, you brought the county to this, you brought local self-government. You've made areas of death out of the best areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149931	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, I ask you nicely that in your statement and address, or in the debate you do not disrespect any MPs. A colleague, Boric, was elected on the HDZ list and was elected as such to the Croatian Parliament. We have several replicas, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149932	I thank you, so after what we have heard from you colleagues now, so this reform is nothing more than a preparation for defeating HDZ in parliamentary elections after losing to the presidents where our candidate Miroslav Skoro, who better sings, will win this one that doesn't sing well. So the local sheriffs will still retain power locally after losing at the state level. Does this mean that they are still preparing for reserve positions because it is rather than a last-minute election in the last year of their people's mandate that will continue at these levels and within the ministry to cover the corridors even when the other ones come? We are nothing but witnesses of all these years, now we have heard and colleague Bauk says they will change it again, this Croatia is a victim of constant change and is not thinking about what is really decentralisation. And today we haven't heard anything about the right moves that would lead to decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149933	I'd like to thank my colleagues. Answer me, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149934	Thank you very much. The only point is this package of laws that changes is the sense that HDZ settles its party base, and mainly in the county where I come from from the Split-Dalmatia County. I can testify, I can talk about it for five days and talk about it. That's what I'm talking about in the county councils, that's what I'm talking about in public, but that's not a good message. And as President Colinda or candidate Skoro sings, I'm not the best judge, but apparently there's been panic and eternal singing that they've been singing. I don't know what the reasons are, I recommend that they sing "My Grace", it's one of the better songs, dear. I see the vice president is laughing too, so here I can call you now with that song "My Grace".
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149935	And “Zora was”. We have the next line, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149936	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. In Slavonia, we import buns, and one of the most important development projects in my county is the Milky Way Research and Development Center, worth 36.6 million. Now watch out if they found 200-acre barns in my county, if each of these people were to split 200 thousand kunas to fill them with two to three cows at that time, they would have 700 cows in the county that could give milk immediately. But we invent hot water, so we build a Milky Way Research and Development Center. Unfortunately, it is also with the state administration which is now transferring units (regional) to the area of self-government of its jurisdiction. We don't want to deal with the real problem, and that's where I agree with you fellow Bull. In Croatia, it needs five strong regions that will bear the development of the Republic of Croatia. These are all other stories from hollow to empty. These 20 counties may, however, most cannot assume these obligations or will ever be taken over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149937	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. Answer me, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149938	Thank you very much. According to my colleague, Žagar, all of these laws, so this set of laws can no longer be counted, I meant to write amendments but it's pointless because it just doesn't make sense, on every article written against the abolition of counties, but... I see that there are many reported ones, better to sit down and do so, so that we can develop a debate and that I can tell you everything I think about the county where I come from and how it is managed by the Split-Dalmatia County, which is the largest county, of course if Zagreb is the exception. So the way of work of fellow Zhagar County is simply the exclusively entanglement and addiction of mayors and mayors and if these people are not under the same hat as in the county they are dependent on the mayor. And unfortunately, these mayors and commissioners can't be freely managed and simply have to lick the mayor because he won't survive. So the whole system is upside down. Decentralisation of the right towards local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149939	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149940	Dear fellow Bull. It is likely that HDZ and satellites will vote this set of laws so that the mayors will be doubled personalities. On the one hand, they will be civil servants, and on the other hand they will be local officials, i.e. state officials and local officials. So not in some things the state and local officials will agree, but what if the state and local officials can't agree? What do you think the mayor is going to switch to, whether to the local or state, given that you know what was going on in Split-Dalmatia County and around the home of health for which I am extremely sorry because the home of health in Makarska was destroyed by the former or current director of the health home in Split-Dalmatia County, who do you think will win that conflict?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149941	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Answer me, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149942	Thank you very much. Here I will quote a former member of the health administration of Split-Dalmatia County of Dr. Ivana... who said in the video that came out, no one has denied her who said she can't be hired even a porter without the knowledge of Andrej Plenkovic, I'm talking about a health home of the Split-Dalmatia County. So it's very easy to guess, that on the bookies you can place all the property that you'll put aside the rulings in the country, not on the side of the people and local or regional self-government. It is a fact, and it was admitted itself by the mayor of Split-Dalmatia himself to be directly mixed, the camera is, he said he was directly involved in the contest in the selection process of the director of home health. And it would be in normal countries if he would resign immediately, but the next day he changed his mind, he was running away from the prime minister's answer and there was simply a struggle in the county of the hostage and a struggle between Sanader and Boban, so Sanader Ante.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149943	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149944	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, just for your information, the mayors cannot lift their county, it will only happen here in the Parliament. And if someone chooses you for it so you can end yourself, you probably know for yourself that Blaženko Boban beat you twice down in your county so you're mad at him and so you run after him every day with those cell phones, cameramen, etc. And of course it's causing you a problem. But even more problematic, when someone as a parliamentary representative knows whose child has a grade in some class. With such information, there were also some services in the former, former state. So the question is, where did you get that information? What is it that you do in your life to think about what kind of child someone has if they don't know a councilman in the county, so where did this policy come from? Is that the lowness I was talking about? And as for the presidential candidates, I don't know if 4 or 5 MOST members can support and distribute their votes to the 4 candidates you have, and which of them will all four win?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149945	Thank you. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149946	My dear, I've received 11,000 votes, as far as you've received the preferential, Mayor Boban's got 5 replacements, and you, you're a deputy parliamentary representative, I know you're written by a colleague Bačić and wrote to you by a colleague Bačić what you will say, my dear, be...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149947	I've already asked you not to disrespect parliamentary deputies in your statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149948	The humiliation is when someone says, and I've won for the mayor no less than 64,000 votes, alone without a campaign, there's panic, water in your ears, down Brkic's people,.../incomprehensible/... people, well you don't have enough votes, you're just a substitute, you can pray to God that you're in power, but you know you're not, you have to be obedient. If Oleg Butkovic were here, you wouldn't be a parliamentary representative and I was your problem. And I didn't count the grades I said that the director, that director who paid for the Mayor Boban portal to praise him under counseling was basically, that's what parents signed, 30 parents all, was basically making a teacher who taught mathematics in the second grade, his kid got three. Look at that principal, I said what the parents signed, and now we're handing them what I'm dealing with, look.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149949	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go, fellow Mattelian.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so today we are here for a set of laws, and in fact the roof law we are discussing is the State Administration System Act. It's a law that the government wants to force meaning, so to force the meaning of the counties next to the already meaningful, besides the already living municipalities and cities. However, this law is not bad because I personally believe that the county is no wheel of a stopper that drives regional development of the Republic of Croatia but rather that it is some wheel that turns into empty and sometimes backwards, but that law is bad for that reason because it does not primarily meet those three criteria that you have set for yourself, which are decentralisation, rationalisation and depolitisation. Why, therefore, this set of laws or systems, the Law on the System of State Administration will not decentralise anything. We have 428 units of municipalities in Croatia, we have 127 cities, we have 20 counties. If a man were to look at the side like this then he would say that Croatia is a decentralised state given the large number of units of local self-government. But it's exactly the opposite of that. The reason for such a large number of units of local self-government is precisely the centralization of the system and you must have the form of a municipality or form of a city in order to come up with even any means with which you could plan your own, own development. Why is this system therefore why this new Law on the State Administration System will not rationalise the state administration or the affairs that the State Administration has? For this reason, we today in the state administration system have over 2.5 thousand workers in the state administration, some 950 workers have the right to severances from how much we could hear today in the committee debate of them 500 have agreed to severance, so there are still over 1,500 employees in the state administration who will have to deploy somewhere in the county. Given how the county functions, it won't be a problem. So there are empty rooms, there are certain rooms where they will settle, but this one will spend more money on them and not only those 350 million kunas provided by the Ministry and not only those 150 million kunas that the ministry will provide in rebalancing but will therefore spend 30% more money on their salaries because namely the standard of counties or wages in the counties is such that there are salaries higher. When we talk about this or about not meeting the decentralisation conditions in this new state administration system, then it is necessary to say that this is not decentralisation for this reason because this is just administrative decentralisation but not fiscal. So this is exactly the explanation that money doesn't have enough talking about this decentralisation not being a complete decentralisation. And finally, why this system will not depolitise or professionalise the system of state administration. As I have already said at the outset, this law strengthens the muscle, strengthens the power and strength of the mayor above all, so some mayors have seriously imagined that the overlordship of the mayors and mayors, although even this bad law does not allow them to do so because there is control over the administrative acts of the municipality or the city is not under the authority of the mayor. However, under the mayor's authority, what has been under the authority of the head of state administration so far, namely, elections in local self-government units, or electoral lists. So far, over the lists of local elections in municipalities and cities influence or final, the final framework of these lists was the head of the state administration's office who, whatever we think of as a professional, and now it has a political person, that a political person mayor because the mayors were elected in the elections, many mayors and county representatives of their political parties, so it is a political person, and further, depolitisation of the system does not contribute to the fact that 96 assistants in the ministry will simply turn into directors. It's actually fulfilling the form, but it's not content and it's not really depoliticalization, it's quite the opposite of that, it's politicizing the system. So, finally, to simply conclude, this law, like other laws relating to public administration, to local self-government, which this government has passed, is not a reform law, this is a pseudoreform law, because it will neither rationalise nor decentralise, and God does not depolitize me as a system of state administration, and thus will not strengthen the effectiveness of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149951	I would like to thank my colleague Matjana. We have replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149952	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mateljan, we will likely face, if there is no new crisis, we hope it will not come, that it will not spill over to the Republic of Croatia a new crisis that would come from the Western countries, we will face a problem that today, today I have seen it in a group on the social network. The man complained that in Slavonia he offered a salary of 4,000 kuna net and could not find a waiter or waitress. Believe me, it's about the state administration or the future of a local administration where people with high professional training work mostly. Believe it will be a problem in the future to find people who will want to work for that money despite the assumption that the county will even raise wages. These 500 people who retire, who will be stimulated, they will, they have worked in that system. But the question is whether a young man will come to work in the administration system, especially in local self-government units where the future is even more uncertain than it is in the state administration, and we will surely face this problem in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149953	Thank you. Answer, fellow Mateo, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149954	Dear colleague Sagar. The problem with public administration, the state administration is the capacitation of people who work there. So when these people set themselves up with a political key, then their capacitation is questionable. You, at least in my county, can't be the head of the school, can't be the head of the hospital, can't be the cleaning lady in those facilities, unless you have the mayor's blessing. In such a way, in the long term, the capacities of local self-government are collapsing, in such a way that young capacitated people are leaving us, and you can end up having the charisma of Alexander the Great, you can be very smart, you can be very good, but with what's left you can't keep company.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149955	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague, Stjepan Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149956	Thank you. Well, here you go, fellow Mattelian, I agree with you. So there's no rationalization, no decentralisation either. There is no rationalisation for this reason because we have heard that many people will get severance, go to the county where they will have bigger salaries, maybe it would be rationalisation that this decision adds to the mayors here, can be parallel to the Assembly, so that in the county they volunteer, maybe something would be saved, it might not be bad for them to think, and decentralisation will not be because decisions that have been resolved by the public administration offices, locally within 15 days, will now be resolved in Zagreb di rock extended, we have seen somewhere even 60 days, which will in fact complicate things with local self-government units and as you said, the mayor is a political body, he chooses elections, and yet the office of state administration was an expert body, and it is about elections, so here is definitely a strengthened position of mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149957	Thank you. Answer, fellow Mateo, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149958	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovac, you are a colleague of the captain and a very successful, very successful city and therefore you know that citizens, in fact, countys don't perceive as some kind of operational body, where they can handle some specific things. They thus perceive municipalities, or cities, and come to our door even when questions that are at national level need to be addressed. In this case, when we transfer almost 200 activities to the county, nothing will actually happen but the even more ineffectiveness of this same system offered by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149959	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Matjan. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149960	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Mateo, to tell you the truth, I'm a little surprised by your argument. Is the director of the election in a public contest different from the assistant minister who is appointed? If it's a public tender, then all the public tender participants can complain if they think something's wrong. The other thing, I'd like you to listen to me, Mr. Mrsic can talk after his story. I have not heard from all these discussions today whether, in these changes, by putting down certain departments in the county, do we want to or are we satisfied with the fact that we want to bring the state administration closer to our citizens or are we politically bickering here? Well, I guess the basic thing that we need to discuss here is whether with these changes we're going to increase the quality of the work of the state administration. And another thing, citizens, i.e. The county council members will now be able to specifically discuss certain... My friend Mrs., I've been listening all along even though I disagreed with you. So be nice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149961	Comrade Mrsic, please don't disturb the speakers. Thank you, fellow Shuker, for your response, fellow Mattelian, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149962	So, uh... Shuker, you're right, that's a question we all need to ask ourselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So is this new system of state administration when the activities or system of state administration are transferred to the county, are we going to decentralise the state administration, and are we going to transfer it to the citizens and will the citizens benefit more from it and will the state be more accessible to them? He won't. That's what you ask, if you asked intimately your HDZ chiefs and mayors, they'd answer the same question. The mayors, unfortunately, are who they are, the entire system of local self-government, the kind of brake this country's development is. This system of local self-government needs to be reformed from the root. Whether this path is different criteria of activity that a certain municipality or city will have, it is a matter of agreement. But a system like this is necessary as it is now to change from the root, not to the half-legislators.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149963	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague of Snow White Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149964	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'm going to do, specifically, is look back at the Agricultural Land Act. So we believe from the Living Wall that instead of solving your legal obligations, you have focused on political staffing, and a year and a half have passed since the last amendment of the law, and no competition has been carried out. The agricultural land law is unadjusted because some municipalities do not have a list of the land they use and are owned by them. The lease of small OPGs, inconclusive and harmful to small farmers, is disabled and domestic farmers are put in an unfavourable position. You yourself know that you have already changed the Law on Agricultural Land countless times and have never worked with people who deal with agriculture because you probably don't even care. We all know that in some of the past laws you only favored similar ones like Forta Nova and Agrokor. We know that the head of Baranja Municipality of Željko Cickalj from Bilj was one of those chiefs with whom representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture spoke when it was intended to simply implement favourable concession agreements on state land signed by Agriculture Minister Petar Čobankovic with the owner of Agrokor. So with the laws so far, you've favored the likes of them, and now it looks like it's time to sell the land to strangers. I can also not mention the last lapus where it is given to local self-government management, so in some municipalities I note rural rural rural areas the construction of farms, greenhouses is disabled. It's just that farmers who do some form of agriculture can't do this job leave their farms because there's no room for them anymore. Imagine, there is no place in the village for farmers because agricultural holdings are not in the plan of building a municipality. There's no place to build such objects. What's left of them other than leaving, moving to some other replacement countries where the agricultural holding with incentive is offered at their disposal, just because the local sheriffs decided to do so, and maybe that very man was suitable, but he wasn't like him. You've destroyed your laws of the village, you've turned the golden grain of Slavonia into a sheikara. Milking has just been unresponsibly made available by agricultural land on its knees, and people are not allowed to live in the country. When will the other people get the opportunity for permanent and occasional income sources? Does this law of yours have a solution to that question? Does this law of yours have an answer to the question of when will the Croatian village finally escape through rural development from the burden of poverty and the corruption in which you dragged them into your irresponsible laws? Try to get out of people at last and ask them what they're missing. You may even hear the right suggestions and opinions of people. I'll read you a comment from a gentleman who deals with cattle. The livestock industry is knee-deep and the number of cattle is in the fat drop so that no major preambles about the distribution of land will be because simply in our part of the cattle there is already very little. Mostly it's all wrapped up fine in a cellophane and the biggest one is assured that no one can do anything to them, possibly even bigger. No one sees their economic programs by which they got the land, but they still have all the advantage. No one cares if they paid the rent in time, but it's important that the new tender settles the remaining debts. I don't have a single hectare of state land, but I keep buying a piece a piece of private because it's the only way I can increase my O.P.G. Young people go out and all politicians are full of mouths telling stories about their staying. The son graduated from the agricultural school and a year ago I prescribed an OPG on him and paid pension and health care. What chance is there as a young farmer to get a hectare of state land? Of course there isn't any. So whoever's in the pit, he's in the pit, so says the gentleman or better, who's gonna have it, and whoever's got more, let the rest of them go after the bread. That's what people think. And what are you doing? Unfortunately, for 30 years, you have failed to share people with state land, and it has been expected that you will not change it even after 2018. I'd just like to read to you the OPG Croatian "Life" Association is looking for an emergency sale of state agricultural land with a price-privileged price for the first 50 hectares. You've limited the number of hectares that can be bought, protected a farmer in a peaceful property, and given priority to a farmer whose country is closest. To young and domestic farmers, return the land of former Agrokor and offer it to domestic farmers. So this is what the Croatian OPG Association of Croatia is looking for. And in the end, is this law on the sale of family economies, on favouring large, law on discrimination against farmers, the law on the flowering of corruption, and who is privileged, small or large? Mostly it seems like it's a big business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149965	I thank my colleague Sabolek. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović. He's not present. Dear colleague Stephen Kovac. Here's your colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149966	Thank you, Vice President. Although the political lobby of 20 Croatian counties has done its job and adopted the Law on State Administration, under the cover of the implementation of the National Reform Programme 2019 under the measure of 1.4.4. decentralisation and rationalisation, clearly there will be no rationalisation. The very fact that certain public administration jobs are rerouted to the county does not in any case lead to rationalisation, as interpreted by the legislator, explaining the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. There is no rationalisation, but by the very fact that the counties are being taken over by state officials from the state administration office as well as by the fact that a small number of them are being paid huge severances. There is no rationalisation, nor if it is taken into account that civil servants from the state administration office will be taken over as county officials, which will have higher salaries than they have so far. Therefore, as a legislator, it says that the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government will not require additional funding in the state budget, around 350 million kuna, in the county budgets, it will certainly not be so. Compensation could be used by about 600 of the 2500 employees of the state administration's office. That the counties, as the legislator states, will do more rationally the tasks of the state administration and provide more equal services to citizens, it is easy to verify and will quickly be proven not to be so because the offices of the state administration are expert bodies that professionally do their job. Also, when the legislator states that the amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government will strengthen units of local self-government, it is clear that it is the political move of the county and that, if anyone will strengthen it, then it will be the counties, not the units of local self-government. The legislator of such changes strengthens the political power of the county, when it is said that there will be no more overlaps between the state administration's office and the county's offices, it was not at all a matter of overlapping business between those. If business matches, it happens under the current unaltered regulations of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and because the county has prescribed powers that are consistent with the affairs of municipalities and cities. And specifically, with the bill's proposals, I'm going to show it to you in some articles, and I'd like you to bring it in and check it out before the law is passed. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4. Law proposals, due to the tasks of the state administration, are proposed to the counties, instead of the current offices of the state administration, the power of the electoral bodies to resolve election disputes for the election, for members of the councils of local committees, thus amending the body responsible for resolving the complaint against the solution of the competent electoral commission and determining the competent administrative authority in the counties instead of the current offices of the state administration. Thus, as a second-degree body in the election process, it becomes a administrative body in the county. This is a lost expertise, neutrality because the administration offices were not political bodies but professional. In the case of an art. The 6th and 7th bill, where there is no decentralisation either. The supervision of the legality of the general acts of the local self-government units is transferred from the current powers of the state administration's office which, under the Law on the System of State Administration of 1.1.2020, are no longer established in the jurisdiction of the public administration authorities of each of its parts. According to Art. 4. The Law on the System of State Administration, which entered into force on 18 July 2019, belongs to the authorities of the State administration of 20 ministries and to the State Administration. Who and what will be sent to watch? So far, units of local self-government have delivered general acts of the representative body to the competent office of the state administration, so that the 15-day surveillance period began the next day of the session. In accordance with the proposed president of the representative body, a general act, together with an excerpt set out in the minutes relating to the procedure for the adoption of that general act, must be forwarded within 15 days of its adoption to the competent authority of the State administration in which the general act is part. We re-centralize the system and complicate the procedure. The question arises who will suffer the consequences, and these are obviously citizens. According to the proposal for amendments to Art. The competent authority of the state administration will receive out of all 555 units of local self-government general acts to monitor legality and the question arises when and how this surveillance will be carried out. According to Art. 7 of the proposed draft amendments to the law, the competent authority of the state administration, if it determines certain irregularities in the general act, and it is not clear when it will be because it is not indicated, may give the representative body of the unit of local self-government an instruction to act or to remove the observed deficiencies for which units of local self-government are prescribed. If the representative body of JLS does not follow the instructions and does not remove the identified deficiencies, the competent authority of the state administration shall be authorised to take a decision to suspend the general act or its specific provisions of application with a justification, instead of 15 days, the deadline for the decision to suspend it is now 60 days. It means we're not simplifying, we're complicated. Such a decision to suspend the general act must be published in the official JLS. It follows from the attached that so far everything has been happening within 15 days, in the local offices of the state administration, and now it happens in the competent authorities of the state administration, so in Zagreb. What will happen to the consequences of the general acts adopted by the representative bodies of the local self-government units? Will citizens wait for individual acts to be issued by JLS authorities, because if individual acts are issued to them and a notice comes from the competent authority of the state administration within an unspecified time period that a general act has certain irregularities, who will suffer the consequences of issuing individual acts? For example. The representative body of JLS has made a decision on the municipal contribution. The President of the representative body shall forward that decision to the competent authority of the State administration which, within some non-existent period, will be able to be identified in such a way that there are certain irregularities. In the meantime, the decision on the municipal contribution came into force 8 days after the date of publication in the official JLS report, the competent administrative department issued a solution to the parties on payment of the municipal contribution, according to the power of the building permit, i.e. the decision on the state of play. Based on such a solution to the municipal contribution, the party made the payment, and the competent administrative department carried out the construction of adequate municipal infrastructure. What will happen in such cases because of the centralised amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. If, after some time under these amendments, the instructions of the competent authority of the State Administration on the supervisory procedure are received, the representative body of the local self-government body shall act as directed and remove the observed deficiencies. It's a process that lasts again. If the representative authority fails to act, the competent authority of the State Administration shall be empowered to take a reasoned decision on the suspension of the General Act. For the decision of the General Act, it is prescribed instead of 15 days to date, a 60-day period. When all that time is summed up, the consequences of centralisation of the system are clear as foreseen by these amendments and additions to the law. Here are these few articles with you I mean closer, you were mayor so you understand that, explained, tried to explain to me that you were essentially complicated. You may be strengthening the county, but in the units of local self-government, chiefs and mayors, you're making things more complicated because some of the procedures might get complicated. One question on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Roads, in addition to Art. The 15th bill, please include it if possible. This Article provides that part of the costs of the winter service for non-classified roads in the area of the unit of local self-government which have the status of the mountain-mounted area is financed from the state budget. These units of local self-government are about 85 and these are not small costs, it will be huge budget costs. In doing so, they are again placed in a more unfavourable position of other local self-government units which no one has put into the statistical framework or categorization of the mountain-mounted area, because now look at one nonsens, just for example the town of Lepoglava is classified in Group I of the assisted area with the highest point of altitude, 248 m while the municipality of Štrigova, which is in Međimurje, along with other municipalities that have much higher altitude, are not in that category, for example. The municipality of Štrigova has an altitude of 341 m, so it is not there but Leprechaun is and it would beg to be looked at so that they really agree if it is working at these altitudes to place and those municipalities of others who have a higher altitude than the town of Lepoglava who is inside it and some others who might have to be, are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149967	Thanks to my colleague Kovac, we are moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Sabina Glasovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When we discussed here the amendments and additions of the State Administration System Act, which was finally adopted and adopted, I have just warned from this speaker of potential problems lurking in the transfer of one piece of power from the State Administration's office to the county in the area of education where it is not irrelevant and it was not a small role that was precisely the office of the state administration in the work and functioning and essential part in the work and functioning of educational institutions. We have 61 laws here, a lot of them I've looked at, and a lot of these laws are really about nomotechnic harmonisation, more or less surveillance or administrative oversight, where powers are transferred from the current state administration offices to the ministries or some other constituencies. There are some laws that, when I mentioned them to you in the replica of Mr. Secretary of State, which are not just nomotechnical nature but are quite political decisions. One of those laws in which you have not only nomtechnically aligned the law with the existing Law on the System of State Administration but you have made certain political very important decisions is the amendment and addition of the Law on Education and Education, so let's put it in order. It is no question that a part of the jobs that have so far been transferred to the state administration's offices to the establishment units or to the administrative body in the county, such as the registration plan in accordance with the registration area in the Ith grade of primary schools, the derogation from the registration area for certain reasons where the county, until now, has been working on public administration offices, is now to determine which child can be entered not in that enrolment area that is determined but also in another. Also, we will transfer the authority to determine the number of grade departments in primary schools, we will implement pedagogical move measures to another school which it has been told to him, and then, now the county, so far it's the public administration offices, we have to be informed about when parents are neglecting some of their obligations to raise a child, so with CZSS, we may have to be informed and county, too, will make county decisions about early enrolment of a child, so that it can go to school early on about 6 years, as well as whether it is necessary to postpone enrolment in primary school, whether or not a child needs to be temporarily freed from schooling, as well as whether or not a child in need to deal with this type of care, which is particularly difficult for the children to do so now, because of the problems they are particularly important in particular, because of the problems they are particularly important to the need to be addressed, especially for example of the children, especially for example, And that's not controversial. Here I have now listed some 20 jobs where I don't see any problem that it will be, but let's go to the other part of the story where I told you that you have made some pretty serious political decisions and where in some way by disenfranchising the state administration's office, you have strengthened the role of mayors and the role of politics, especially when we talk about employment to which our citizens are particularly sensitive and particularly sensitive to school employment, because regardless of who the school boards are hiring in schools and what the founders are, let's say that such policies are in the minority, it is very often known that with the help of the parents' representatives actually politics decides who will be employed in schools. And as if that wasn't enough so far, now we're going a step further, so the public administration offices are working on joint committees that keep records of technological surpluses in schools, receive information from schools where the need for employees is, I'm talking about full or part-time, and where those commissions or public administration offices were actually the ones who sent technological surpluses to schools, people who had as much luck as they had to do about d technological surpluses that don't work anywhere or work in less working time, actually get a chance to make full pay, full stop, that's what the public administration offices have been doing so far with the help of the unions. Now it won't be like that anymore. It's going directly into that body now, we can say so, Mayor. It is politics and politics that will decide who will refer to schools as technology, those who are recorded as technological surpluses in many or part-time, who will go to schools. I don't think we needed it, I think it's too high and that we're sending a bad message and that we could, with perhaps a little bit more effort, find a mechanism to respect the commitment of the state that stems from collective agreements for employees in primary schools on the one hand and for employees in secondary schools on the other hand, which prescribes that at national level we have a common commission on technological surpluses made up of representatives of ministries and representatives of unions. I do not see it now means that this commission remains still because it stems from a collective agreement, you still mean at national level you have a national joint protest committee for employment and staff deployment and rationally and efficiently resolving surpluses and deficits in primary and secondary schools. They have their own county committees, it's the subject of negotiations between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the trade union and you are now handing over some of your powers to the mayors who have not participated in the negotiation process at all. At national level, there will continue to be 2 representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education sitting in that commission, representatives of the unions and down there you no longer have that flow and this upper commission has decided on the complaints of the decisions of the lower committee etc., etc., I think it should have, it just shows how sloppy, not perhaps you or the Ministry of Science and Education, as it has approached solving certain problems, and here I think something could have been avoided because I am rightly warning here that you have politicised further this and influence or strengthened the influence of politics, specifically the mayor on the deployment of technological excesses of employment of these people in Croatian schools. Second and third where there is still a potential problem, it is interesting that by amending laws on archives, theatres, museums, supervision of the administrative work of institutions you transfer, if the founding unit is local or regional self-government, the supervision is transferred to the ministry, just not here, not here. Here the founder of the school is, for example, the county, and you are in high school, and you are in administrative supervision, moving out of the hands of the state administration's office and putting that same county. Here you have more, they have done there in the ministry of some sort, but well, you're the promoter so I can tell you, let's say crazy one thing, in Article 147, establishing conditions for the start of work of a school institution or for the change of work in other conditions, and now says it's the state administration's office, it follows the existence of conditions that some institution is established or that changes the working conditions and now it says, and it asks the founders to meet the prescribed conditions within 90 days, the state administration's office has determined it, and if the founder doesn't act, it will inform the Ministry of Coca about it can ban the work of the school institution, here even normally you haven't removed it, so if we replace the state administration's office with the structure unit in the county, it means that some construction units in the county will ask the mayor, of itself, to remove the shortcomings, if it doesn't do so, will sue the self-in't. There is not even nomotechnical in art. 147... You haven't made that shift and final, we have a little more time and a lot of content. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 121, when the school board is dismissed or the school board is resolved, there may be a crisis of functioning and school management on school boards, we know that representatives of founders and representatives of other and institutions etc., however, this crisis is so far if it can't work, very often or has been some kind of problem among coalition partners, I don't know any more time, but in any case there is no more of it to provide and extract the school from a stalemate position and it was the office of the state administration through a commission that manages the school until the conditions for the appointment of the new school board are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149969	I thank my colleague, Voter. We have several replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149970	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, by your debate you have shown that this package should not have been done this way, because part of the law is broader than the changes concerning the transfer of the State Administration's office and to your questions the Secretary of State certainly cannot answer because it is completely out of reach of what he has been doing so far. Also, so that she was supposed to be a minister who could answer these questions, the Minister of the Ministry of Science and Education, but I am also encouraged by this replica, and that if they have already made changes that are wider, then specifically this law that you were talking about, we should also solve the problem that has arisen after the Labour Act has been made possible by the amendments that pensioners can work half their working hours except in schools. So you have teachers in vocational schools who can't work at school but can work as sellers or as merchants, so that law should be changed urgently to bring the Law on Education and Education into line with the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149971	Thank you, dear colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149972	That fellow Jovanovic, there really is a lot of fundamental changes here and well, if they have already decided to transfer that part of the power to the mayor that he has a little bit of a stronger influence but I don't think that the HDZ deputies are possibly aware of what they're doing through this law and they don't like it, probably now that we're saying you're further politicizing and now you're giving the mayor a little bit of clothing through his people at all schools, basic and middle school in the area of one county, but these things were really a little bit more perhaps professional debate, that we've paid a little attention here in the debates, every resolution minister to what he's saying... MPs, not who's talking from which party, and then it's just so malicious, maybe some of them are really here, things that are low, really cost nothing, and they don't give anyone power, and they're not taking it away, and they're going to cause problems in the functioning of the system, and we could have avoided them in this functioning of the school boards because we're going to have to change the Law on Education and Education in the work of the school boards, and we're probably going to get in trouble. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149973	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149974	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Glasovac, speaking of the role of the county, the powers of the county in education, the powers it has so far and which have these changes to the system of state administration, you spoke of a network of schools. The system of the network of schools is just proof of the deep politicisation of the county system, namely, I will take an example of only two counties, Split-Dalmatia and Karlovac County. Don't worry about the proximity of the school and the proximity of the settlement. Don't worry about carrying students. Don't worry about the size of the settlement, the only thing he's looking out for is political influence. We now give these counties that are so politicized, we give them even more power, we give them control over that same system. If it's not an additional politicization of the system, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149975	Thank you, colleague Voter's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149976	So I think that the biggest wound cancer is actually what you mentioned in the school network and in politics, registration policies where simply the needs of society, parents, children, all of us are in conflict with the needs, but some of the interests of politics, because admission policies in secondary schools are unfortunately not driven by the interests of children and where they will work, rather than by keeping peace in the chambers, social peace and jobs because if it wasn't so we would cut some interests, reduce, we wouldn't knowingly educate children for employment services, which ultimately costs the state again, but who, which director, which mayor will make decisions to reduce the class of some teachers and teachers, say there's no room for their programs anymore, and that's why we're coming here because we're not determined and we don't look at the long-term but short term.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149977	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Stjepan Kovac, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149978	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, I'd like to take one look at my colleague's voice in this debate and that's school and technology surpluses. I'm afraid that's where the possibility of incarceration will open, because there will now be a loss of expertise and what is important, neutrality. Now it's going to be done by the county, i.e. The policy will decide on the staff, i.e. We know when politics decides to push its personnel first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149979	Thank you. Answer, colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149980	If we have clear criteria at country level that must be followed, for example, by every county commission, as we set out a list of technological surpluses, a list of priorities that must be public, then it doesn't really matter who technically referred it to which school. But if the county commissions have the authority to say to go to Marko and no one knows why Marco got the advantage of being employed as a technological surplus before Janka, then we have a problem and then we have a potential danger of abuse of power or abuse of interest in this case which I hope will not happen but it has happened and I'm afraid it could continue to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149981	Thank you, fellow Members, I hope the secretary of state and, based on your gestures, understands the criteria to be introduced. ... You'll hear later, please, Secretary of State, final word on behalf of the motionary. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'd like to say a few final sentences before I say thank you to all the MPs who participated in the debate in this whole package of laws, of course, especially those who have approached it constructively. So, I'm going to throw a segment in my final presentation on a few things that I've talked about and in the water exposure. First, we were preparing this package of laws, meaning compliance with the Law on the System of State Administration, we were guided by the Government's conclusion of 18. Seven. In 2019, which was very precise, it also meant that in the laws, the whole package exclusively changes means those parts of the law relating to the confidence of county businesses. I also said in the introduction four types of jobs will not be entrusted to the county, so it is administrative inspection, sports inspection, supervision of the legality of general acts and administrative supervision. So everything else in this package of laws will be entrusted to the county and I am holding and I said it and in the opening statement, I don't think some of you were even present when I said it, that two important objectives will be met by adopting this package of laws and in fact the whole procedure started by adopting the Law on the State Administration System. The first goal is to decentralisation and rationalise, so decentralisation is almost 200 of the jobs I mentioned, which will be left to the county. And rationalization is reflected in that the system that cost about 350 million kuna somewhere, according to all our projections and based on leaving 500 people from the system will cost between 310 and 320 million kuna. So it's an exact savings amounting to 30 to 40 million kunas, provided 500 people leave the system, meaning by the 25.9th system according to the information we've collected, so according to the demands of the people working in the offices of the state administration, 517 people reported. There are still 3 working days left in which an additional number of people can be reported, 1. The 10th will be very clear how many people leave the system and how much savings there will be, then we will be able to come out with concrete numbers how much savings there will be in the state budget. I also said that the funds for the functioning of the county, or for the functioning of all those who will work on these entrusted jobs, will be secured in the state budget for 2020, of course for the 2021 and 2022 projections. And I finally also said that at this point in the system, if we add up the number of people who work in the state administration offices somewhere around 2500 or 2508 and the sum of people who work in the county and that's about 2200, we get a number of 4700 people. So after this reform, the figure will probably be somewhere between 4000 and 4200 people. So that's the exact information that proves that even the cost of the system after all this is paid off that we're going to invest through the severances, is going to be much less than it's ever been before. It's part of the reform. The second part of the reform concerns depoliticalisation and professionalisation. Today we have heard a lot of different variations related to historical events in the last 20 years, so the fact remains that 96 assistants currently in charge are disappearing by the adoption of this legislative package and in fact by adopting the State Administration System Act and by such a number of officials. So the directors of the administration that will replace them, are named or elected in a public tender, so a public tender is being held, the minister is conducting a certain public tender and is making a proposal to the Government, which means that the government is ultimately confirming that appointment. Here I think that in these few sentences, I have summed up everything that we have planned with this legislative package, and I am sure that this legal package when it comes to life in reality, which means right after New Year's, will lead to significant savings for the state budget and on the other hand, will significantly improve the functioning of what the public administration offices have done so far and will take over our counties. Of course, this is a kind of I would tell the county that these entrusted jobs that have now been obtained through this legislative package, if it certainly turns out that they will be doing these jobs well, this may be one of the incentives that these entrusted businesses in the future become jobs that will become their original jobs and then their incomes will certainly become their original walks, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149983	I thank the respected Secretary of State for this closing statement, we have several replicas, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, here you are, colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149984	Mr. Secretary of State, you've used one awkward word when it comes to the functions of people, which is that they're going to disappear, I hope they don't disappear, that there will be good health still, but I have one question that you can answer and you don't have to answer. So, please, your assessment of how many of the 96 ministerial assistants will pass in a public tender for directors of the administration and what do you think the number would be significant to say that a repolitanization was actually carried out? Is that half or is that 80 of these 96 or is that 2 of 96? If you want to answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149985	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149986	Thank you. Well, it's hard to answer your hypothetical questions, so I could know at this point, so when not all the rules of the ministries are approved and the condition to call the public tender is that the rules get consent, they can hardly answer who's gonna call from the current assistants, they're alive and they're gonna see, here's what's going to happen very quickly, so by the 21st. Ten. The government has obliged all ministries to call public tenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149987	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149988	You're right, Secretary of State, you can't answer at this time, Mr. Bauku, he can only answer the time. By the end of the year when all the competitions are held, when we see how many politically appointed assistants will be selected in the competitions for what professional directors of the administration we will be able to draw the line and answer the question whether through this law we are actually professionalising the state administration or we have just politicized the state, here's just that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149989	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149990	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, dear Secretary of State, you said that by transferring the affairs of the state administration to the county would significantly rationalise the system, however, many fellow opposition MPs were the the thesis that there would be no rationalisation of the system since employees in the county had significantly higher personal incomes than they had in the state administration, and thus there would be no rationalisation of the system. Perhaps you should also underline that you will essentially per employee to ensure the county funds as much as they have received so far when they were in the system of state administration. They also talked about politicising the state administration's affairs by transferring to the county as if it had forgotten that the heads of state's administration were appointed by the government and that it was not any apolitical body, moreover, the mayors were elected by direct elections and the appointment of the government by members of the government, I also believe that they are also politicians and we can't talk about politicisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149991	I thank my esteemed colleague. Next replica,......... I'm a colleague of Bauk's. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Comrade Bauk and fellow Shucker, I would ask you nicely not to disturb the order of the assembly. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149992	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, there's no need for any anxiety about this project, this is a great decentralisation project, and I don't even know what the question is about whether this procedure is good, bringing down certain jobs to county level. If the county manages and manages health homes, they are the founders of hospitals, primary and secondary schools, if they manage the homeland for social care, if they care about 18 500 km of county local roads, if they care about 303 ports and harbors, if they issue building permits, if they issue location permits, then the county authorities are able to take over these jobs too, this is a great project of government and I congratulate you on that, I believe it was a regret that he was not the one who tried and went into the decentralisation project and in this way little with some kind of irony looking at a new competition on the appointment of directors of future administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149993	Thank you very much. Answer, Secretary of State Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149994	I thank the honourable representative for the congratulations, and I would just like to take advantage of this replica to say one more important thing, so this reform was supported by the county community and as you know in the community county not only the HDZ mayors, so all the mayors have supported this reform, of course with the enquiries that we will settle through the agreement that we will sign with them, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149995	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149996	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I think we need to implement this reform, not to take into account what the party is thinking, the party has always suspected so much of these possible public tenders for future directors of the administration. Those who were ministers had this chance, they also came to a decentralisation program for which they had not done anything and of course that everyone here today, unfortunately, was very loud but with the wrong information, insinuations, insinuations, tried to leave the impression that they knew something, in fact other than the fellow Kovac that I listened to carefully and offered something that could be heard a little bit, all the rest was one I won't say misery, but simply expressing some views that had nothing to do with all 61 proposed laws that had been discussed united and that we would vote when the time came.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149997	Thank you. I would like to conclude the debate, thank Mr. Darko's esteemed secretary of state for the explanation of these proposals and for the answers. We'll vote this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with today's day we have completed all the scheduled items of the agenda, we will continue tomorrow morning and 9 and 30 Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No. 1272/2008 European Parliament, thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. SECURE Interrupted at 18.26 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149998	Now we move to the vote on points 13th to 73th in the voting plan for today, that's 61 total. There has been a united debate on these points, so I suggest we also hold a united vote on those items of the agenda. Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u149999	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club MOST for 10 minutes because we see that we have 61 laws that essentially put it under county authority employees. What does that mean? So 21 counties in the Republic of Croatia, fewer of them have China and the United States together, we have a huge problem with the counties, the counties have taken over health care, education, irrigation, and in fact we never have health care up there, in homes of health in ruins. And now, for reasons of justification, you're adding state administration to them under the cover of decentralisation. Here is only in Split-Dalmatia County when you look at the way, the way the mayor's director is appointed and the mayor's influence in, after the appointment of the director of home health we see that the health care has been destroyed. Look at the demographic picture, look at the data for 2018, look at the Dalmatian counties, look at Slavonian counties, they're the purpose of themselves, they're basically the reserve position when you lose the election that you can be in those counties, the counties are the purpose of themselves. Here it was expected of citizens and the current political situation, economic, economic, in 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia only one decision was made, the suspension of the county. Fellows and colleagues, the counties are their own purpose, the mayors depend exclusively on local leaders not to smile, run away from the mayor if they simply won't get the funds unless they're from their political party. The right decentralisation is according to local self-government, according to underdeveloped areas, according to areas that are literally difficult to survive, but the only thing that serves the counties is exclusively infatuation. Look how much has increased in the county and we don't know, here I am in my general not knowing what the number of employees is that we can't get the information. Trust me. that counties are the main brake, development of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150000	The apartment is approved of course. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150001	Mr. President, I wouldn't ask for a break, but I'd like to show myself about your proposal to vote. We propose that this joint vote be left out of Law No. 694. Final proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and Bill No. 705. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. This second, for the reasons we believe that it is not only a harmonisation with the Law on the System of State Administration, but also another additional regulation, and as it is an organic law, we believe that it requires a qualified majority, so that the two laws are set aside from the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150002	I agree with your proposal, so we'll single out those two laws then. Let's move on, no, no, colleague Beljak, first is colleague Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150003	Thank you very much, President HS. I'm looking for a 10-minute break. It's about these laws, of course. We have two options, we can have a real state and work state or we can play state, and we're afraid all the time we're playing, we're playing in a way that we've had ministerial assistants, and then we've turned these ministerial assistants into directors, so let's say from the four assistant ministers we've come to the 11 directors, and then we're back to one ministry to four assistants, so now, in the last year of this government's term, we're going to renegotiate the assistants and have the principals, why? So these people could get caught and these people could stay permanent. Why? Because it's HDZ personnel and now imagine elections where HDZ doesn't win and change and some others come and their hands and legs are tied because all those who work for them are actually HDZ's staff and you do that. Also, we were playing state administration's office, so now we've transferred the state administration business to the county, why? So as not to be officials, among other things, at the head of these offices, but to be employees. What are you doing? You're doing what was already done before, and it's ingesting the HDZ chamber permanently to make these people pay in public service and to keep these public services working on a continuous basis in favour of what? In favor of one state playing, not the real state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150004	Thank you. He approves of a break. Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150005	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, I am asking for a 10-minute recess to be consulted whether we should even vote on this law that will be in force for a little over a year. Namely, counterpart Bulj is absolutely right, the county should be abolished, they said, said they were a failed model that lasted since 1993. And they turned into absolutely nothing but a brake of development. Namely, it would be cheaper for the Republic of Croatia as a state if all officials and employees were paid to be at home because this is how when they invent a job to justify under quotes the existence of counties, they become brakes, they do not work, but invent work to stop the system at local levels. You know, it's sad to see the mayors and mayors of rich municipalities and cities kneeling in front of the mayors in order to ask for their money, so the county doesn't have its own resources, these are taxpayers' funds, these are local environments, cities, municipalities, and it's sad and sad to see the mayors as some kind of guy, face, share that money to those whose money is in principle. So I ask you to give up the vote at all of this law and so the law will be in force for a little less than a year, after the next parliamentary elections I am convinced that the Republic will conquer the progressive forces, and one of the first steps to release the Republic of Croatia will be to just lift unnecessary counties and return to the control system of 100ths or 110ths, slightly more than 100 units that should have or must have 30.35% of the funds, so 1/3 and that is the way to finally go towards decentralisation, and thus to a better future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150006	Thank you. A colleague, Zekanovic, is also approved by his colleague Beljaku. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150007	I'm looking for a ten-minute break for the reason that I want to point out once again a strange situation, and this is about the secretary's assistant to be transferred to the director of the public tender. I'm taking the opportunity to invite all those interested in this job from this place to apply for a competition that will be announced soon. So, all those who have VSS who meet the other conditions of the competition should report and I am very interested in whether any of the current ministerial assistants will lose their jobs or whether there will be one who will not win the competition. Here I am sure, convinced that absolutely all of them 76 ministerial assistants will become directors of the administration. But here I would like to do a little test on ministers who will be calling soon for competitions, so I call on all those who have interesting jobs in the ministries of nearly 15 thousand kuna to report to the competition because soon we have 76 very well-paid jobs. And I'm just curious, I'm going to say it one more time, if one assistant is going to lose in the competition, or if someone who's going to sign up is going to win a public competition eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150008	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not 11.10, please be there. It's 11:00 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats to proceed with the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.13 HOURS]] As I have announced, we will now vote on points 13 to 73 of the voting plan for today's vote. So there's going to be 59 points. Since we will now not vote unitedly for points 21 and 32 in line with the SDP's Club's demand. As we said, the debate was united, so we will also vote unitedly. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to stress that the Legislative Committee has tabled amendments to the following draft laws. These are: Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Administrative Inspection, Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on humanitarian aid, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Transport in Road Transport and the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Trade. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the proposed amendments and they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am now voting on 59 final drafts of the law, so other than points 21 and 32, which are mutually linked to the establishment of a normative framework that will allow for the effective performance of the State administration's affairs. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 81 for, 19 abstentions and 12 against, those laws have been passed. So how did we announce everyone except points 21 and 32? And now we will vote individually on them. First we go to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 694. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendment submitted. With us is the respected Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150010	I thank Mr. President and welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted because the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests refers only to the alignment with the Law on the System of State Administration, while that proposal can be considered in drawing up a whole new law on the State Administration System, whose adoption is proposed in the 2020 legislative action plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150011	It's obvious, Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150012	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our amendment was not very short and relatively clear. We propose that representatives of the European Parliament and members of the European Commission be included in the list of officials covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. I think that's why we're looking for it. The head of the least municipality in any county, I will single out the Split-Dalmatia County and the Zadvorija municipality, which has 230 and some voters. It is necessary to fill out the property card to the Committee for Conflict of Interest and to answer questions from the Croatian public and the Committee for Conflict of Interest if such questions arise. inconsistencies in the assets or, if observed, e.g. some incompatible duty. Not only does he have to do it, his deputy has to do it. Whether they're professionals or volunteers. However, representatives in the European Parliament who are undoubtedly politicians dealing with politics in Croatia and Europe and members of the European Commission do not have to do so. On Friday, Mrs. Glavak invited us on behalf of the HDZ Club, calling out to us why we're not asking Neven Mimica to show off the property card. And here's what we're proposing is just such an amendment and a government whose leadership the HDZ is not accepting. I'd like the HDZ Club and the government to coordinate. As for the latest case with Mrs. Shuic, this is how you prevent her from showing her property in a transparent manner in accordance with Croatian law and also to be in an equal position like everyone else. So you're making it impossible for her to defend herself, you're opening up further doubts as far as she's concerned, and of course I'm asking for an amendment vote on behalf of the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150013	Now we will vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. So please vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. So then I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Interface Conflict. ... You've already asked for Stanka. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, no, sorry, that wasn't a break, right, yeah, yeah, there you go. [[No, we didn't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150014	President-in-Office of the Parliament, however, I thought that reason would prevail and that you would allow the property of European officials to be published, among other things, of Dubravka Shuice's assets. The question is why are you hiding the property of your European official and what are you afraid of? The HDZ is obviously spreading panic and fear of publishing European officials' assets. Because how else do you explain what you're doing? So the public rightly wonders how it is possible for a professor from Dubrovnik High School to speculate on assets of more than 5m euros. As possible, in light of the fact that Croatia's professors are having a hard time living today, they are asking for an increase in salary of 300 kuna per month. So, I will remind you that this suspicion is even bigger today because this summer is due to the suspicion of illegal property acquired, because of the suspicion of corruption had to go half of your government, including Lovro Kuščević, the man you tried to push to the Committee on Legislatives, otherwise the first associate of the Prime Minister Plenkovic, his right hand, his friend, his political secretary, who he personally appointed there when he replaced Davor Ivo Stier. And my question is, why are you destroying the country's reputation this way? The country's reputation doesn't collapse by insisting on transparency, the country's reputation collapses by corruption, clientelism, crime, curiosity, everything you do. Therefore, it is clear that by not publishing the property cards of European officials, you are destroying the country's reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150015	Is anyone else picking up for a break? If you don't, Comrade Glasnović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150016	So I'd like to request a recess for the consultation. Let the property of all MPs be published here if they have lied, European parliamentarians. And it's strange for me that the party here that annulled this party's concept of private ownership here, that they're asking for Miss Shuice's property card to be published now. What about their cards, these people sitting here? ... No, no, you've announced, you've earned two million kunas and you're longer here than Mussolini was in power in the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't put down the smoke curtains, that's scary. It's just a smoke screen, it's a game right here and left, right wing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150017	Please, colleagues and colleagues. Stanka approves. We have before our colleagues Bačić a violation of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Radin's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150018	238. Representative Glasnović here in this House has been saying things that no one here shares but him. I would ask you to warn Mr. Glasnovic to remind him of the reason he insults the counsel. [[Adversity President: A fellow Radin's time is up.]] Now, give me a heads-up and speak notorious nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150019	I'll give you a warning because you've abused the Rules of Procedure Institute. Please don't do it that way. We've heard a lot of debates here that most of the MPs here disagree with, so I haven't given any notice, nor have we had any injuries to the Rules of Procedure because the level of debate is what it is. There was no jumping out of what was already heard. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Glasnović. [[And that's an insult.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150020	It's not an insult, it's true and some don't accept the truth, it's their problem. This man here is a lie and a lie. [[President: Good thing it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150021	A colleague of Glasnović and you get a warning, please take a seat. Let's not do a circus. He's been warned. Comrade Zekalnović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150022	So, 238nd colleague Radin is constantly insulting Mr. Glasnović. Please leave him alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150023	A colleague of Zekanovic and you also have a clear reminder. A colleague, Bačić, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150024	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I request a ten-minute break on the same subject, therefore concerning the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. First of all, I would like to say one fact, which is that Mr. Secretary of State on behalf of the Government refused the amendment in such a way as to say that this is about harmonising with the Law on the System of State Administration and that the Government remains open to such a proposal, that officials of the European Parliament or Members of Parliament and members of the Commission are included in the list of officials. Whether it is possible or not at this time, I do not know what the regulation is at European Parliament and European Commission level. Therefore, I am, and I agree that any official in Croatia is to be declared his property. And speaking of counterpart Shuica, her property card was available all the time while she was an official in Croatia and was published with all her assets. Therefore, I am not running away from it, and I think Mrs Shuica is in that section and she has announced her property in accordance with the regulations in force in Croatia. And I have to say that there have never been any questions about it, and that there has been a sort of procedure about its assets, and that's what the IRS said. But if we want to be transparent by the end of the day, it would be good for you to look at the situation in your own party. For example, do you think that, in the spirit of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, it is not a fact that, for example, someone paid you for schooling and that no one problems you in terms of your political action or, for example, that you are calmly crossing your candidate for president of the state through his statement that the sources of income and entrepreneurs for which he has worked and provided consulting services to the secret and inaccessible Croatian public because of the secrecy of the data. Therefore, let us be specific and correct toward one another.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150025	My colleague Bacic's out of time. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150026	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238. Mr. Bačić, don't give moral lessons because it is known that your wife's company, your company, has almost poisoned children in the River with wormy meat. So, please, what kind of conflict of interest is this?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150027	You received a warning from your colleague Bernardic, this was incorrect. Here's my colleague Bačić, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150028	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 of my colleague Bernardić was injured, first of all, by my wife's company. My wife over there is a stockholder with 283 other shareholders, that's one thing. The second thing, when you talk about a specific subject, it was already manifested by the Institute of Public Health of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and there was no child poisoning. And the third thing, when you don't have the arguments to take it down to personal animosities and try to hurt someone because you presented the facts is incorrect on your part.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150029	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. A colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150030	Thank you very much. He was injured in 238, it is amazing that Mr Bacic is talking here about examples of others, and today, today, the HDZ is proposing to a Commissioner who, as a school teacher, acquired an estate of EUR 5 million. So, tell us, colleague Bačić, how is it possible for someone working only in the public sector to acquire 5 million euro of property...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150031	Comrade Maras, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150032	...and in that way, I'd say...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-26-0.u150033	Comrade Maras, your time is up and I'm giving you a warning. ...sends everyone to the Republic of Croatia...
