ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125285	Thank you very much. Honorable Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Here is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Police Cooperation in Southeast Europe. The Southeast European Police Cooperation Convention was drawn up in Vienna on 5 May 2006. The Member States of the Convention are Austria, Slovenia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia, Moldova and BiH, so 11 Member States are open and other accession countries are also open. The possibility of accession of Italy and Turkey to the Convention is currently being considered. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Convention shall enter into force on the 90th day following the date on which the instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession of the Signatory State is to be laid down. Following the ratification procedure, the Convention entered into force on 10 October 2007 for the first two countries to sign it, the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Macedonia, until, as I said, for the other States of the signatories, the Convention entered into force on the 90th day following a country of its own ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. The Convention constitutes a basis for the establishment of effective and quality police cooperation among States signatories in particular in the prevention and detection of criminal offences and the fight against threats, public order and security. Likewise, the Convention is now considered the strongest and most important regional legal basis for international police co-operation with the Southeast European countries. It is expected that, acting on the basis of this Convention, the country, the parties will draw closer to the standards of police cooperation as established within the Schengen area. The Convention establishes an international legal framework for the development of cross-border police cooperation between parties to the Convention, primarily in the fight against organised crime, terrorism, illegal migration and in the fight against other threats and security. For this purpose, provisions governing joint analysis of threats, liaison officers between countries, witness protection, exchange of information relevant for the swelling of perpetrators of criminal offences, exchange of experiences, implementation of cross-border surveillance, supervised delivery, implementation of covert criminal research, establishment of joint investigation teams and the establishment and operation of a committee of ministers of the Member States of the Convention are included in the Convention. I believe it is also important to mention that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Convention will further contribute to the preservation of stability and security in Southeast Europe as well as the integration of these countries, i.e. the first Croatian neighbourhood in the EU. The Republic of Croatia has made reservations, plans to make reservations to certain provisions of the Convention which do not comply with the Schengen legal framework and provisions relating to the exchange, processing and protection of personal data due to the necessary harmonisation with the legal property of the EU but will, in addition, notify, in addition to the declaration of the reserve, the competent law enforcement body, the Ministry of Police of the Ministry of the Interior, the National Central Unit, that is, the International Police Cooperation Service in the Administration of Criminal Police and the degree of secrecy in the Republic of Croatia, together with the level of secrecy table. So to be seen which degrees of secrecy exist in Croatia, which are in Europe or in certain countries of the signatories of this Convention. The reserves concern the implementation of certain areas of international cooperation. For example, such as cross-border pursuit of non-EU countries, i.e. with third countries with which the Republic of Croatia has not concluded a special bilateral international contract. Similarly, due to the rules on the protection of personal data, a reserve has been put in place to comply with the provisions of the Convention with the provisions of the Regulation and the Personal Data Protection Directive, and in that case it will apply our national legislation which is in accordance with EU law on the protection of personal data. A reserve will also be declared in relation to the exchange of classified data, as such exchange of such data is possible only with those countries with which the Republic of Croatia has concluded an Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data. However, of the 11 members of the Convention, the Republic of Croatia has 9 of those 11 countries of such bilateral agreements. In relation to the provisions of the Convention on the Exchange of Data on Motor Vehicle Owners and Users, vessels and aircraft, such data shall not be exchanged as the reserve per Article is invested. 4th century 5 of the Convention, in order to avoid the exchange of such data for criminal offences and offences, due to territorial jurisdiction in relation to the distinction between the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries. So, when there is no clear limit between the distinction between Croatia and neighbouring countries, a reserve is invested on the exchange of these data. In addition, reserves and notifications, when laying down their accession documents, the Republic of Croatia will also announce that accession to the Convention of the Republic of Croatia does not affect the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU, as well as another declaration that accession and enforcement of its provisions do not prejudge border issues with neighbouring countries. Therefore, as regards the accession process itself, it is a convention with a closed number of signatories, but as I said from the possibility of joining other interested countries, therefore, this internal procedure under the Law on the conclusion of international contracts is being stepped up quite rapidly. Here, and finally I note that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125286	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is a colleague of Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125287	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State. You were talking about the possibility of a chase between member states and the EU from non-EU countries, so I'm curious about what the situation is with the transfer of weapons between these countries in pursuits and what the situation is with regard to the specificity between our neighbours, which means the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia within BiH, means whether it is possible to pursue whether the police on one side of the border in case of a chase have the right to carry arms with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125288	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125289	I didn't hear the question, what on the weapon, I didn't hear, if he could supplement... As far as the police's concerned are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125290	Police powers in the case of cross-border pursuit of non-EU member states, a specific situation in BiH, Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125291	The police of neighbouring countries and our countries have the right to intervene and they exchange cooperation, therefore in such matters, it is then a matter of transferring weapons through one member, i.e. between the two neighbouring countries. So, the state police, the state has the right to react and act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125292	Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125293	Dear Secretary of State, I'm surprised to you when you talk about police affairs as far as you don't know this particular question, and that's not true at all what you said, but later I'll discuss it, but my question was it before the 2006 initiative to approach this convention or not? This is what I'm saying for the reason that here, for 13 years, we've actually joined the Convention, secondly.../incomprehensible/... material, why there are no documents that talk about when Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria and Slovenia joined, or that component of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125294	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125295	Mr. MP, during a certain period, you have been Minister of the Interior, but has now joined the confirmation of this Convention on Police Cooperation because the evaluation of our commitments under the Schengen accession concluded that such accession would be useful and that it would be significantly improved, speed up co-operation with countries in Southeast Europe, so the Republic of Croatia and all EU countries. In this way, our eastern neighbourhood has been integrated into European standards and those concerning Schengen itself, thus facilitating co-operation between states, and the Republic of Croatia will be a facilitating condition, one of the reasons that will speed up our country's accession to the Schengen area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125296	My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125297	Thank you to the president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, state secretary, and recently there was an article in the media that literally certain criminal groups specialise in certain types of activities in Southeast Europe. This article states that Croats are engaged in arms smuggling and counterfeiting documents, Serbs-Montenegrons smuggling narcotics, while Albanians specialize in drug trafficking, human trafficking and prostitution. The article also states that the Albanian mafia is among the 5 most powerful in the world. Since crime does not know nations, races, religious background, but here it turns out that criminal groups work very well together and complement each other. It certainly needs to be passed this law. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125299	Your Honor, as you said, crime does not know nationalities and borders, criminals work very well together. It is therefore necessary for Member States to cooperate through their police services and try to be faster than criminals. This Convention, we believe, will certainly make a significant contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125300	Thank you. Now let's see if the Committee's representatives are interested to take the floor. If not, then we'll go to the hearing. The first is the club of HDZ MPs, respected counterpart Marijan Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125301	Thank you very much, President HS. Representatives and MPs, the Honorable State Secretary, Mr Katic, here we have the Final Proposal for the Law, the Convention on Police Cooperation for Southeast Europe. The countries that make up this international organisation are the Republic of Austria, which is currently chairing this organisation by 30 June 2019, the Republic of Albania, BiH, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Bulgaria, Hungary, and the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Croatia has so far not been a signator of this Convention. I remind you that joining the Schengen area is our common strategic goal and one of the main external political priorities of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the necessary activities shall be carried out to meet the prescribed conditions. Following this, with these countries, the signatories of the Convention, we are already achieving quality bilateral and multilateral and operational political cooperation, and in all the forms provided for in this Convention. By joining this international agreement, it is an effort to establish modern police cooperation between the signatories countries, in particular to prevent and detect criminal acts in the fight against threats, public security and order, and to establish an additional international legal framework for the development of cross-border police cooperation, which will further contribute to stability and security in Southeast Europe. Here, on the basis of the above, the HDZ representative club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125302	The second club of representatives is the club of representatives of the HNS. There's no fellow Currays, so they lose the right to speak. The third club is a representative of SDP and counterpart Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125303	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, this 2006 Convention, which was signed, was later joined by other countries and EU members, etc., of course one of the forms of possible police cooperation, but the first question is raised, and therefore I was deliberately and just before in the replica, actually talking about whether there are some other modes and the fact is that from the time I was a minister, and even before, we actually supported and... the process and also all other forms of cooperation that have been in the area, means, and Southeast Europe. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What surprises us is that here we use terms that are not normally common in this Convention. I don't have this interference if it's a geographical term, but one of the reasons why this situation has been avoided very often, in fact, is that the Republic of Croatia has been accessing this Convention since 2006 was exactly the area that is quoted here as saying, which is the countries of the Western Balkans. The usual way, in fact, we invite them to call this Southeast Europe and all the other initiatives they were, was also a quality and sufficient framework for police cooperation. What is true, according to Europol data, 7% of the most serious organised crime members in the EU come from the Balkans and this was the main reason why police cooperation in this area, which was literally dead by 2000, sought out some additional institutes and ways to work together. This bypass of the Western Balkan states, as it says here, and I call it Southeast Europe, was, in fact, to take advantage of the opportunity in these situations, which is better information, developed information, data that they have, but also help them contain what you can't call your own backyard because by solving problems with themselves, they can in some way help both the EU and the Republic to maintain stability. What is mentioned here says that the Republic of Schengen is determined to meet all the remaining technical conditions necessary to enter the Schengen area by the end of 2018, and believes that it is possible for the Council to make a political decision in the first half of 2019 on the accession of the Republic of Schengen. From this text, if I may be speaking incorrectly, I think it is now 2019, it would mean that it is stated here that the Republic of Croatia has met all the technical conditions necessary to enter the Schengen area. Of course, this is not true and of course this is a situation that is easy and superficially accessible and with such international agreements and should be stressed that it is talking about the Council making a political decision in the first half of 2019 on the accession of the Republic of Schengen space, it is not the end of the Schengen accession process at all. Perhaps that truth needs to pass the technical evaluation which, among other things, Bulgaria and Romania have been through since 2008, and to this day they do not have such a decision or have been admitted into the Schengen area. I am saying this for the reasons that it turns out that the evaluation team considered the accession of the Convention as one of the forms and recommendations to be known, that since 2015, two years after we joined the EU we have the right to become a Schengen member. The letter of intent was submitted just in 2015 on time, since then they have tried to make all the actions I suppose and I believe that it is a strategic national interest although at this point it is hidden under the designation classified and we do not have the right information about what is actually happening with technical evaluation. But it says here so let's say the secretary of state probably in his camel reply that it is true or not true, and I think it can be very simple there, and that means the basic question of whether Croatia has met all the remaining technical conditions necessary to enter the Schengen area by the end of 2018, this is 2019, so I would ask a very precise answer to such a thing. As regards operational cross-border police cooperation, especially with neighbouring countries, as I have just reacted about weapons, it is not at all the same as the law or accession to this Convention that rules are prescribed and only bilateral agreements have resolved the situation when it goes and chases, cross-border pursuits, when weapons can be used, among other things to teach you this political business, but even the situation where there is a bilateral agreement can use official weapons, carry it with it, but can only be used in situations of extreme or self-defense situation. But this is a variant where we are already used to the fact that, without accurate data, very important conventions are being discussed and we are coming into a situation where we actually approach something that we have for different reasons, there must have been some reserves before, and today they have been highlighted very important for which Croatia has not actually joined such a process, or a concrete Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe. I do not say that cooperation in South East Europe should be opposed, but with how many reserves are actually entered into, and this is, among other things, highlighted, which is that application will be for certain articles only in relation to those members who are EU members, that it is also necessary for everything else to be regulated by bilateral international agreements and it is not true that in 9 out of 11 countries we have concluded bilateral agreements in all areas that regulate those variants that I have called here in the Convention. That's also not true. But not to talk about it, just in relation to a convention of intent that should actually be clearly stated, this convention is in fact in some way a message by an evaluative one has that the Croatian Parliament has access to this convention no matter what names are in it, even some of the missing, missing communities of Serbia-Montenegro and that in some way one of the conditions for entry into the Schengen area are met. So much about whether we have met all technical preconditions or not and what I want to say is a matter of analysis of threats, liaison officers, witness protection, data exchange, experience and pursuits, it might be good to hear how many of us have liaison officers now active, how many have been returned and no longer exist in the countries that are in our environment and how true it is that this Convention, regardless of what is not in accordance with the Schengen legal framework, is actually a message from the EU that we approach it. I'll say that this is a law that turns out to be a form, we do, but there may be exceptional problems, of course, because international contracts are so important and conventions, you don't have to go in with a fig in your pocket, either you are inside or you're not. What I want to send as a message about already concluded international contracts, everything that we have, I am sure that I will be able to hear the answers to these questions later that I have asked here, to be able to respond or to ask, and to ask, what is the real intensity of this convention. Has anyone ordered us to actually approach this convention or is this an actual sincere intention for the Republic of Croatia to enter into a variant through the accession of this convention to cooperate with countries in the environment and to actually achieve what we should be interested in, and that is to combat organised crime, cross-border crime and best neighbourly relations, in fact, achieve what we are interested in, and that is security in Southeast Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125304	Thanks, we don't have any more clubs, so we're going to an individual debate, first in line Branimir Bunjac, but he's gone, so he loses his right to speak. Second individual debate, colleague Angelko Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125305	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, in order to improve the fight against organised crime, terrorism and illegal migration, as well as the fight against other threats to public order, it is necessary to adopt this Law confirming the Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe. For this purpose, provisions governing joint analysis of threats, liaison officers, witness protection, data exchange and experience, pursuit, cross-border surveillance, supervised delivery, covert investigations, joint investigation teams, data protection, and the establishment and operation of the Committee of Ministers are included in the Convention. The Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe was drawn up in Vienna on 5 May 2006 when it was signed by the Ministers of Interior of the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Moldova, Romania and the then state union of Serbia-Montenegro and between 2008 and 2013 the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Bulgaria, Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia joined the Convention. So right now it's 11 countries of parties. Apart from the fact that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Schengen Convention is a prerequisite for entering the Schengen area, it believes that its accession would also contribute to the preservation of stability and security in Southeast Europe, but would also mark the crossing of Western Balkan states on the road to the EU. When we talk about illegal migration, I think it is important to point out that the migration crisis has just been the biggest crisis the Croatian police have faced since the Homeland War. In 2015, more than 670,000 migrants passed through Croatia without our citizens having suffered any serious damage to the economy. Then the Balkan route went across Serbia and now on this one through BiH, i.e. from Turkey, Greece via Albania, Montenegro to BiH. The Balkan route, according to individual analysts, corresponds to the one used by gun and drug traffickers. According to their estimates in these premises, in Southeast Europe, Croats mostly hold arms trafficking and counterfeit documents, Serbs and Montenegrins deal with drug trafficking while Albanians specialize in drug trafficking, human trafficking and prostitution. Assumptions are that today the world's most dangerous mob, i.e. The criminal organization of the Mexican drug cartel, followed by the Italian mafia, then Russian criminals, American gangsters and then the Albanian mafia. When we talk about terrorist threats, I point out that the biggest threat is returnees from war in Syria and Iraq. BiH is a country where radical Islam is growing rapidly, from which more than 300 of its citizens participated in wars in Iraq and Syria on the side of Isila and Al-Qaeda terrorist groups. That is why we need to keep them on the watch. I therefore consider it good that a provision has been incorporated into the Convention that the Contracting Parties, i.e. States Parties shall have a uniform level of information on the crime rate and shall draw up joint analyses at least once a year. I also believe that the provisions for the implementation of the laws of the Contracting Parties cooperate in the field of exchange of training and training plans, agree joint seminars and cross-border exercises, participate in special operations as observers, and allow courses and training to be attended in their field. I therefore believe that cooperation is necessary, that the Convention provides a good basis for this and, of course, all in order for our citizens to be as secure as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125306	We've got two replicas, first up, colleague Ostojić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125307	Dear fellow Striker, I would say only one thing is that it is not good to generalise, mark Croats as those who hold the arms smuggling business or do not know Albanians for narcotics. I think it's fair and best to call them criminals. If the police of our countries and neighbours cooperate on the level they cooperate as much as they cooperate between them. And for that reason, I'm just a little bit of a suggestion I'm not going to generalize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125308	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125309	Well, colleague Ostojić, I called from where I got this information. So here are the assumptions of analysts that criminal groups have just specialized in certain types of crime. I agree with you that we should not generalise but that we should improve and strengthen police cooperation certainly yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125310	Another replica of counterpart Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125311	Thank you, Mr. President. This Convention regulates the stability and security of the countries of South and South-Eastern Europe and the Schengen area as well as the threats and threats that come from that area. At this point in time, Mr. Strick is our biggest threat to migrants who are coming along the Balkan route, so I'm interested and I've been previously told about your opinion whether we have met the preconditions, whether we have enough accommodation facilities for migrants. And I'm interested in your view of it, a few years ago, three, four years ago when the wave of migrants was large on the other side, on the Bosnian side, it was said that in Varazdin it should be an accommodation center, a gathering centre for these migrants. So I wonder if you still think that Varazdin is suitable for such a gathering centre especially because Varazdin is extremely far from the Balkan route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125312	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125313	My colleague Križanić, that the migrant crisis is still current, we are witnessing it, we can say fashion not daily but weekly according to newspapers and police reports. That there are about 5 million migrants in Turkey who want to go to Europe is true and around 200 million people are moving around the world. Croatia is dealing very well with this, we saw that in 2015 when the biggest blow to the migrant crisis was the Croatian police did their job well. You've noticed very well, i.e. Reminded me, in 2015, the current government was planning to open such a center for migrants in Varazdin. Fortunately, it was prevented. And what makes me particularly happy is that we returned that space a month ago to the legendary Pumas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125314	Let's go to the next debate, colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125315	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. I'm going to express my surprise again why you're not really answering the questions we just had. Well, that would be our turn to know if we have met the technical conditions, whether we are actually now in 2019 as it says, and that this story is actually over, whether this is the EU's position or the real sincere desire of our country to approach without a fig in its pocket and without serious reserves towards the countries of Southeast Europe. As far as the facts are concerned, which is that at this point our country has certain data that I have asked you to tell me about the liaison officer as many of theirs here, as much as ours is working, as much as we are connected to each other through this situation, I would first of all like to use this individual debate in that segment to call once again on that segment, and to the conventions or situations in which after 13 years we have joined something we didn't want, we have to have quality and good reasons why we are doing it now and before that we have exclusively stuck to certain bilateral agreements and completely other processes that we have been very active from the Visegrad Group to the situation of a hill of process together with Slovenia, etc. What I would also like to point out in this situation, means as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, the data on cross-border crime, enlargement and everything else, of course, indicate that today the greatest number of criminal acts is possibly human trafficking. Is there actually a replacement and a situation where the data we had before is that it's much less something else and that the criminal groups have been focusing on the variant that they're actually doing a very lucrative business right now and that's what's simplest and easiest for them and what I can market at this point? I would also like to say that the issue of the Ministers' Committee itself, etc., of their functioning, given the lack of materials that we have here, which is that we do not really have the views of Slovenia, which are in their reserves, which are the views of Hungary, which are their reserves, which are the attitudes of the Republic of Slovenia, Bulgaria etc. who have joined this Convention, then of course we can't even know how it works, it would be good to know what the ministers of these countries have actually contributed to so far, to make cooperation in these countries, or how much they have succeeded in their cooperation to make a quality effort for the Republic of Croatia to approach it today. Here I would like to remind myself once again that the issue of police cooperation itself is not disputed, that the issue of the situation in which it is necessary for neighbours to build relations of quality in the interests of both of them and of us, and in no way in the way that it is actually a warrant of someone on the side that tells us to meet the Schengen requirements, you must access such a convention regardless of what it was adopted in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125316	We have one replica, colleague Orepic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125317	Dear counterpart Ostojić, I am only interested, you, as chairman of the National Security Committee, are questioning one Convention or the urge to create one Convention on Cooperation, which is in this misunderstanding or what is unclear and what is potentially problematic. It is expected that the president of the Committee on National Security and of such laws, or such proposals for cooperation, will be in agreement and be one common intensities, as I hope that we all have a common goal as soon as possible to enter the Schengen area and meet both technical and political conditions on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125318	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125319	Dear colleague Orepic, since you were behind me then you probably recognized this situation that there was no flaw in it that you signed probably and made sure that it was solved. The reserves that are expressed here, they are on special paper are such that we actually approach the Convention today with such reserves that it will not actually be applicable anything from that convention. That's what I wanted to say. So it is not at all a question of whether or not we will be involved in police cooperation, whether or not I doubt that in your period it is the same and in all of Croatia's common interest to cooperate but through those processes that we have quality relations, we are here in some way sent into the accession of the Convention, I am not opposed, no, nor as a committee, I have nothing against it but with such reserves, we do not actually have that honesty and my question is that in the end we can conclude, it is true, that we do so well but the answers must be obtained first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125320	Thank you, we no longer have a replica, so let's go to the next individual debate, dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125321	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this topic, or about the security of borders and the cooperation with the neighbours, most of all, in this case in such a turbulent time, of course every shift is good in advance and that the Croatian borders and Croatian systems must function in the best possible way. Unfortunately, we live in a country where important topics do not come to terms but therefore dominate the headlines of the topic that I think are irrelevant to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the main news has been the fake news in recent weeks, so this is now the new agenda of the government reform, Mr. Plenkovic, the fight against the faka news. Instead of fighting for the security of the citizens, fighting for a better economy, more jobs, we are dealing first with an informer from Djakova for a few months, so when it is necessary to cover up the affair of planes or failed to purchase planes and escalate the conflict here in the Croatian Parliament, we are now starting with a fake news, or an affair that is totally irrelevant to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Is someone wearing a pack of punks or wearing cloudy shoes? So that's what the entire Republic of Croatia is dealing with right now and what our citizens are looking at and what they're thinking and what's keeping the media busy. So these are topics that I think would be from a security point of view, a police aspect much more interesting because we have to ensure that our country is as safe as it was when hundreds of thousands of refugees go through it that we didn't even know that something special was going on, no matter what some of them were building up, they were trying to motivate people to see that there's going to be some kind of excessives going on, and that's how the state's rights should work. That's why I'm calling here not to hold a press conference in the MUP with factory affairs that aren't really. So basically, it's James Bond's constructions that we've been listening to for the past few days and what the whole nation's been up to, and Prime Minister Plenkovic's dedicated to it yesterday 5-10 minutes to elaborate in front of the government's session. So that's maybe, we used to have ST, free weeks if you remember the 90s here in Croatia where such articles were published, now state media, Croatian television, RTL, instead of dealing with the right topics we're dealing with totally side issues, probably necessary to distract attention, essentially for making the scene news. It means you can't see what the real problems in the Republic of Croatia are and how that doesn't really work, unfortunately, in our country. And that's why I'm saying, so I'm joining here and this thinking, let's solve the real problems, if we're already accessing some agreement, convention, co-operation, let's not really realize it, and let's not just sign something to sign, in the end it won't be fully fulfilled, and I'd say that we're even lucky at this moment what we'd say, we don't have as many or as many inflows of people in the Republic, or transition through the Republic, because unfortunately, the vast majority of people aren't even outside, when it comes to Croatia, and unfortunately most of the people are leaving the Republic, our fellow citizens, we know for what it is, 100, 200 thousand of the past year, it's really alarming data, and so it should be on the cover, and not whether someone's wearing a spanish rat or a bit of tail. So that's something I think is much more important for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125322	We have three replicas. He's a colleague of the Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125323	Comrade Maras, just to prove to you that I listened very carefully and what I'm about to say is actually correcting an incorrect quote. The informer wasn't from Djakov, but from Belišče, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125324	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125325	Thank you very much, but here's what shows you, for example, the situation in Croatia. You've got one of those cases that's been going on for six months, supposedly a man was doing a text fake to bring down the government. So who can believe it at all? I mean, it's a story, it's fake news. It's fake news. So on this side, the main creator of the news faca in Croatia is the Croatian government. Constantly. It's like the fake news that Grmoya escaped from the wreck here in HS from the assembly, and we all saw him standing here. It's also fake news. Thank God, she recorded this camera on HTV, so the whole of Croatia saw that it was lying and that it was doing fake news. So we're working on a fake news policy. That is what the Croatian government is creating. Unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125326	Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125327	Dear colleague Maras, regarding your discussion, I would like to say that the famous thing is that one affair ends when another one begins. It's an obvious tactics actually to do that. For that reason, I'd really like to point out that maybe it's a much more important problem, I don't know how much you've noticed it, which is that the fabrication itself as you've listed the affairs, is somehow supported by evidence and materials, and that evidence and materials is not done by someone else but by the state. Now, I think that's a much more important problem of how a report, documents, photo montage, etc. can happen, alone, reports and proofs of whether something is false, can come out sooner in one week and out in public than what the DORH has the right to do by law in criminal acts and order how to deal with it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125328	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125329	Thank you very much. Well, I think that in itself, what you said actually fits, and that's why most citizens think that this affair is essentially designed to hide real problems. One of the problems is, we saw last week nervousness in the ruling coalition, planes, failure, so we had to construct something to keep the public busy, right? By the way, I heard that the writers of the CSI Miami script are looking for this, input data for one of their episodes how forensically determined the truth of the photograph because they say that such an approach was methodically not seen anywhere in the world by type of shoes, that it is fascinating and they want to make one special show of CSI Miami in the way that a fake photo of the National weekly was determined, so here it is, we have so fascinated even Hollywood this, the powerful that they want to make an episode of this affair in Croatia and call it a spic rat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125330	My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125331	Thank you. Comrade Maras, you've had a really interesting discussion. The Croatian public again had the opportunity to convince yourself of your moral standards and values. Namely, you supported criminal groups here. You supported that it was normal to make a photo montage, forge, give false news, plant someone, degrade him, insult him without a single shred that was true about it. And it's obviously normal to you, similar and just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125332	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125333	Thank you very much. I didn't support anyone. I'm just saying that there are services, that there's a method, a colleague of Ostojić said who deals with it not to fabricate such affairs. Do you really believe that someone constructed SMS wanted to tear down the government? What children can do on the web, which are minimally, know something informative, that they wanted to destroy the government of the Republic of Croatia in such a way. So who can believe that? I am telling you that in the Republic of Croatia, in the Croatian space and at certain times, when it is clearly necessary, we are dealing with affairs that are not. If that's how it is, as you're saying, that should've been explored, it should've been solved, not to stretch 6, 7, 8 months, as long as it stretches. I'm for it, for the serious state, not for the affairs that are created when necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125334	Let's go to the next debate, colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125335	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so here is this Convention, which was adopted in Vienna on 5 May 2006 and which included a number of countries in Southeast Europe, today is to welcome and say that I have certain reserves according to those listed as very important. I would say that this Convention on Political Co-operation will be difficult to establish in detail and well, as long as the War Crimes Act 300 and some Croatian citizens are in force in Serbia. How the RS police officers, on the orders of the Serbian prosecutor's office, will investigate the fabricated and staged indictments that are burdened by 300 and some of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A defense attorney, including a politician. Among the teams there are 44 Branimir Glavas, a parliamentary representative, including Mr. Shakespeare and Mercep, and all those who were 44 on the Trpinj road, as well as Purda, as everyone else. What kind of police co-operation will be in that part, only with Serbia and the Republic of Croatia as long as their Law on War Crimes is in force that they treat jurisdiction over the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I know that crime should be prevented in any case, that cooperation with all Southeast European countries should be done. However, we have witnessed that many times even red warrants of the Republic of Serbia do not apply in Serbia, do not apply in BiH, that co-operation and judicial authorities, as well as the police authorities, have not been brought to life since the legal frameworks are still repeatedly out of line with European standards, so I think that in this field and in this part, police co-operation is impossible and this is the biggest reserve in me although this Convention does not mention it anywhere, but the crimes are crimes, and war crimes are criminal acts. I therefore believe that it should have made clear in this Convention that it refers to everything other than what is not in the spirit of European legal standards that the co-operation of police bodies can be in all criminal activities, except in those whom we believe to be a special court for war crimes of the Republic of Serbia which has no jurisdiction over the Republic of Serbia and in this respect and in this respect is a huge reserve of me, as well as of all, I think, Croatian defenders and all known politicians, that this must not happen that the police of the Republic of Serbia are investigating some of the factories that were created in death camps throughout Serbia and the Republic, which are under duressssion, under the threat of beatings and various forms of coercion, blackmailed, signed, and it will come to our police to investigate those persons who have been captured, imprisoned, tortured, tortured, tortured, beaten, beaten. There is the largest reserve that I have, along with those which you have stated and I believe it should have been described in this Convention, and that the Republic of Serbia has every right, given that it has also put in place 5 special provisions preventing the closure of chapters 23 and 24 in the accession negotiations of the Republic of Serbia to enter the EU in which this Serbian judiciary must be reconstructed, a special court which has jurisdiction and jurisdiction over Croatian citizens is shut down. Here it is, my commitment that this was necessary and should be mentioned in some article of this Convention, that everything else is okay, but this thing that the police are working together to prosecute the citizens that the Serbian prosecutor's office has made against them and fabricated the charges, and now, according to this Convention, they will be able to and will have to be processed by Croatian police officers, and prosecuted them if it is meaningful and proved that they were perpetrators of certain parts. I believe that the factory of the indictments made in the Serbian death camps can certainly be no evidence. Perhaps it is therefore a good aspect to say that somewhere in this Convention it is precisely that specificity of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, clearly and defined, and to fence and put it as the biggest reserve in political co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125336	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. First fellow Kovac, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here it is, Mr. Djakic, you were talking about police cooperation and I will make it very clear once again that, of course, the Republic of Croatia has to negotiate bilaterally that the Law on War Crimes cannot apply to the Republic of Croatia. However, at the latest, the Republic of Serbia will have to change its law and make an agreement with us on avoiding the conflict of jurisdiction before joining the EU, if that is what it wants. It is clearly defined 2.5 years ago we installed it in the Serbian negotiating framework then we received a lot of beatings in the Croatian public because of it, but we did it, we are proud and it will ultimately be the same contribution to reconciliation between Croatia and Serbia. Without it, there is no entry into the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125338	Answer, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125339	Col. Kovac, it is clear that so far neither good will nor one step in eliminating the danger that has been fabricated and created as a special jurisdiction for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia has been taken. The Republic of Serbia in Chapter 23, 24 did not take a single legal step in me to remove what was placed on it as a special form that it must also abolish the war crimes court and these factory indictments drawn up by KOS in association with JNA and local Chetniks cannot be valid and cannot be applied to the Republic of Serbia. The police have to investigate, and they have war crimes departments, so this co-operation could also be passed on to that form.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125340	Thank you, before the second replica, please welcome all members and members of the Association of Persons with Disabilities Better tomorrow and students and pupils of the Koprivnički Ivanec elementary school from Koprivnica. Welcome. ... Now I'd like to pray to my fellow Bulls, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125341	Thank you very much, colleague Djakic, I agree in this section 23. Chapters on Serbia, but simply Croatia did not allow them to open any chapter and that there remains at all the possibility in future negotiations such as our diplomacy of entering Serbia, that our defenders stay on the hunting ground, that the Republic of Serbia judges Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, that is the problem. And there was also a commission set up in the 2016 ministry that had an obligation to follow the Republic of Serbia on this issue of EU entry was to meet, and I, every year, was given a report and informed the President of the Republic, not once in 2017, in 2018, and the commission had that obligation. So RH didn't do what she was supposed to do. As long as Serbia does not meet the requirements of [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which should not have agreed to the negotiations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125342	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125343	Thank you very much, colleague Bulj we were, you were in the joint government with us when the negotiations were opened and the joint ministers voted on allowing Serbia to open only when, as a colleague said, we installed five special criteria and criteria that must be met in Chapter 23, only then. And this has been confirmed by the European Commission and without it there will be no closure of that chapter and I have been against opening accession negotiations until these 5 specific criteria have been put in place. This is what Miro Kovac and I had in common in the Ministry of Defence, we agreed with all the defense associations, and that's how it worked out. I think it's a good fuse and we don't need to prejudge any other moments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125344	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125345	The violation of Business Office 238 by Djakic, at no time was supported by Mr Sprlje, it is known that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did so on its own, our reaction is known And it is known at that time that which we have represented. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] So... It was self-initiative and self-initiative, for the sake of truth.../incomprehensible/... told false. [[Intruder: Please just a little, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125346	No, no, you can't this is a visible, clear, completely clear violation of the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning. Here you have made this replica visible on purpose, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, Comrade Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125347	I thank Mr. President, you, in your debate on the confirmation of the Convention on Police Cooperation in South East Europe, have, therefore, also cited this Law on Criminal Jurisdiction for War Crimes of the Republic of Serbia which took place in the area of the former Yugoslavia, and in that sense, the Republic of Serbia has assumed, respectively, its state authorities to judge in all criminal offences during the former state which took place regardless of nationality and perpetrators and victims themselves. It is clear that this law is unacceptable for us and we have already said on several occasions that in Chapter 23 relating to the judiciary and human rights of the Republic of Croatia must retain the position that they cannot be closed, neither can Chapter 23 be closed nor the other chapters, nor can negotiations be concluded until this unfair one is put out of effect. a law that allows the Republic of Serbia to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He's processing war crimes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125348	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125349	In any case, I have expressed only one reserve between these two who have already been set up, I think that reserve stands in time until their consciousness happens that they have really established a court that cannot be in charge of Croatia's space until then, police cooperation in this aspect should not be on these war crimes. It's the only thing I don't express reserve against anything else, the other thing is what's in the spirit of normal cooperation between the police and the judicial authorities so that crime can be contained as little as possible, in order for everyone to be discovered, so that everything is in the spirit of the rule of law, both of them. But we certainly can't accept this, but many times we've been manipulated by Serbia to deliver certain documents of this and that, so I'm putting the reserve on this part, just this part that's called... crimes and police cooperation in this regard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125350	Thank you, fellow Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125351	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Djakic, in your debate, you have urged that you support police co-operation, especially when it comes to crime and serious crimes, but you have devoted your majority of the debate to criminal charges by the Serbian prosecution and related to our defenders. Especially those who have passed concentration camps around Serbia. I also find this inadmissible, and among other things, Croatia is still looking for 1500, 8 of its missing and 414 dead. These families, today they don't know where the bones of their loved ones are. Well, that's what I support.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125352	Let's move on with the answer, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125353	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Strick, yes, you have well established, one of the provisions laid down in 5 standards and criteria, special criteria and criteria is also the exchange of missing data. If this is happening, and we have seen that many times there are frauds and pranks, that documents have been brought that have already been seen, it is clear that we have to set up reserves according to this convention which is actually good, very good, but we must, I wish that this segment of police cooperation could be installed in it, on all these parts of criminal forms, except for that through... war crimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About this, the police of Croatia and Serbia certainly cannot cooperate with regard to... The charges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125354	Let's go to the next individual debate, dear colleague Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125355	Your Honor. As the proverb says, it doesn't matter what they say, but who they say, I could say freely, according to what I'm old enough and I'm not naive enough to say, it doesn't matter what kind of contract is signed and the convention, but who they sign with. I know from my life experience, whenever we signed anything with Serbia from the time of the Homeland War, when we signed a truce, that we were the most injured and killed. That there is no co-operation between our police and their police, I do not believe it, because I come from a place where I am in my own time, and I believe even today, if they did not go to a deserved pension, Croatian police officers worked in Vukovar in Podunavlje, then changed into a house in Tovarnik, left their weapons and uniform of the Croatian police unattended and crossed the border with Serbia, where they lived. They are, therefore, from one country to another daily, i.e. ours, coming to work. I have no doubt because of their history and what they did during the Homeland War, that they continued to work for the interests of the Croatian homeland, and that, as many today we also see in Croatian politics, they did not continue to work and act for their country of origin, which they recognize more than the one in which they were born and who pays them to Croatian kunas. How to co-operate with the police on war crimes issues, as Mr. Djakic and others say, when they may have done them, and we ourselves do not cooperate enough, within our police force, so that we ask our former colleagues, what they know, which they have knowledge and knowledge of our missing, dead, graves, sites, camps and others. When we know well that Croatia does not recognise the camp where our Minister Predrag Matic, Fred and his comrades, have not even recognised the camp, admit anything. They hope neither to visit nor to place any record, although we are all aware and we are witnessing that there are thousands of Serb victims in Croatia, where nothing happened but the Croatians. We will continue to talk about cooperation, here I will start only one collaboration, how to protect the Croatian border, and that the Vukovar, carpentry hell, where both Serbs and Croats are allowed to use it. How to prevent arms smuggling, opiates, cigars and other goods. I myself witnessed last fall in the Danube towards Apatino, fished with a friend from the Croatian side of the Danube, boats from the Serbian side of the Danube, come the fishermen, move to our side, transfer to a certain boat a bag or let it into the Danube, tied to a bottle of Coca-Cola bottle, the other comes and picks it up. Run a river patrol, emergency, somebody calls her, they run in, they slowly pull back on their side, patrol passes, they come back again. Who works for us in these patrols, who works for us in the fire departments, who controls it all, who's on the other side. If a military truck, kid, can come from the other side, bring cigars, transfer them to a boat, that boat goes to Borovo Sela or anywhere else, who's watching it, who's calling, tipping off. Let's say I had a case of my ex-cops, who I was in command of, one night in the Danube patrol in Borovo Sela, and when he stopped a boat that had some sort of smuggled goods, they started threatening him, there were too many of them, he pulled out a gun, and he had to shoot himself, wound one, and he was wondering where that cop is now. He didn't stay there to expose those who worked with that smuggling slave, but he was transferred to another workplace, to get him off that case and stuff. To talk about police cooperation, Eastern Slavonia, especially at the time of the end, and which we inherited, and who had help with... On the side of the Danube, you are doing the same today, and we, the same people who lived there, know that all crime came from the house of Pavle Cikanović, where the police station of those same heirs, to say, emancipated Croats, not those who reintegrated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what else to talk about, not be sarcastic, not be cynical and not be honest, and honesty in the Republic is not at the price, so I'm afraid that if I continue, I won't be able to get any kind of warning or not get invited to some conversation. I'll finish with this, for your information. As far as the Convention is concerned, we will sign as well as any truce, but I have no doubt in the results because neither in the Croatian police we have been able to solve what is before our eyes, which stands as a pin in our eye, both on the left and on the right. When we are unable to solve the robbery of a police station in which the 4 chick commander brings to the analysis to determine which cut, whether it was left or right, they are not able to determine either. When we're unable to determine where we lost hundreds of pieces of weapons at the time of our former minister, I won't mention it, not a day today, maybe it's a military secret. And one more thing not to forget by accident, we have in the Committee on the Internal and National Security of a man named Gordan Bosanac and he will probably be involved in this whole convention and deal because he works for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to migration, and possibly Schengen, is he proposing in his own time that 50,000 unverified immigrants and immigrants, to receive them into the Republic, probably for our own good and for our benefit. I think I've told you enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125356	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125357	Thank you very much, President. He's been injured. 232. which says that the speaker can only speak on the subject of the agenda under discussion, and I, as chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, must stress that Mr Gordan Bosnianac is not a member of the Committee, but is a member of the Civil Oversight Council, elected in this House, and therefore, it is unacceptable to accuse him in this way in the House on one completely other subject of matters which are actually a criminal offence. If a colleague has knowledge For a felony, let him report it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125358	Thank you. Col. Ostojić, therefore, today during the morning we heard a lot of exhibitions that were different from the topic we were talking about, we also heard that people who aren't here are also called, and they are also suggested that they may have committed crimes, so they are debates in the Assembly. I think we're all responsible for what we say, but there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, that's probably clear to you. Let's move on now, colleague Ostojić, you're on behalf of the SDP club, final exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125359	The Honored President, dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, I will again, once again insist on certain issues, whether the Republic of Croatia has met the conditions or not, it says there. I think it's very important that in this HS on the issue of national interest, it's to join Schengen, it needs to be discussed. At this point, it's closed, we're not in a position to know whether it's true or not, and the Secretary of State has not come into a position to answer that question. As far as the political co-operation situation itself is concerned, absolutely, to be exact, I have always been for police cooperation, but the one that is true, correct and not with the fig in her pocket. There were sentences here today, we'll sign it, but like all examples, of course, we won't respect it. So, if we're not going to, I'm convinced that this is actually one of the conventions or forms that will be accepted in HS in a way, that's what they told us from the EU to do in order to meet the Schengen requirements, and everything else, in fact, we're not going to implement it. In addition, we have pointed out this through the reserves that are written there, and in addition to that, the atmosphere itself, in fact, can be exploited by consciousness and the best argument in the article of the Law that says that everyone is carrying out their own expenses for implementing this Convention. Of course, the secretary of state also pointed out in his opening speech that there will be no cost for the Croatian budget, which means there will be no cost. Of course, this strategy won't even be implemented because if it were to be implemented, then of course we should pay liaison officers, ministers would have to go to meetings, actually, their Committee of Ministers, the answer to how many times they met, we didn't call, we don't know what the benefits that all colleagues and colleagues from all these countries have made so far. What's true, which is, we're in a situation where today we have a chance to talk about a convention that I claim is just a form, and that it's true that no intention is to make it real. As far as the process itself is concerned, I will not insist much on this, but when a national security strategy has been adopted in this House, and there is an obligation to report this HS once a year. What we need to be surprised at when even such a report in the Republic of Croatia in the House that adopted it does not come to the agenda and we do not have it. So there's no need to waste time here, actually, talking about things we avoid being brought here. If we had brought in the migration policy that existed from 2015 until 2018, then we might also be able to talk relevantly about whether migrants are the greatest danger to the Republic of Croatia or not, whether there are any other dangers. I would just remind myself that there's a whole other thing in the national security strategy, so it would be an opportunity to talk through that report. And in the end, I will only tell my own, and that is, express your restraint with this story. It is not because we oppose police cooperation in the area of Southeast Europe or with EU countries, but because it is not in this executive way that we can access documents that do not have all the components in it. You have no answers to the questions that have been asked and actually come to this, that this Croatian Parliament, once again, is used only to fulfill the form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125360	Second final debate, Advocacy Bridge of Independent Lists, colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This proposal of the Convention on Police Cooperation in Southeast Europe, where the Balkans are often mentioned, but it really needs to be mentioned as us in this area, and also in this text, which you have given in the proposal and in the assessment of the situation and the objective of adopting this law, is not good, because at this point, when we talk about cooperation, then we have to look at it from several aspects, look, when it comes to war crimes and I think that this Convention should be introduced, because we need to know that it should have been introduced, because we need to know that during the Homeland War, there have been numerous camps in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, many of our missing, many who have been hoarding and come to the Republic of Croatia, under the wallpaper of the red ones, they are accepted, they are welcomed. Therefore, I think that war crime should never go out of date, so I think that in this context this convention should go, although it is probably inconclusive and inconclusive. But in the context of this story, I would once again look back at the most important, which is also the key to working with Serbia, which continues to call for quasi some legal jurisdiction, over the entire Republic of Croatia, where essentially Croatian defenders would remain their hunting ground. Here, I also have a statement from the Justice Department from the 6th month. In 2017, they opposed the opening of public extradition, where they opposed the opening and where they never received answers, to the non-acceptation by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, from the European Commission, to chapters 23 and 24 so that the Republic of Croatia should not have opened negotiations at all, to block Serbia's negotiations, to open them at all, until it meets these things. However, our diplomacy has done its job. So we can't talk here about something where Croatian diplomacy doesn't worry about protecting its citizens. Defendants in the area of the Republic of Croatia, because legal jurisdiction is the quasi, which is called upon to negotiate. I believe that in this convention, which is now less important, which is less important, it is essentially unimplementable. And in pre-accession negotiations, we do not block Serbia. And not only that, we have a commission behind it, at the time I stepped down from this pay phone, countless times, warned the public, then the ministry, founded the commission, they were the committee that would follow Serbia meeting these conditions, which Croatia's instructions were needed, however, that commission met in 2016 twice, 2017, 2018, and that commission was obliged to report to the President of the Republic. Which means to me, this convention is a dead letter on paper. As long as Serbia, and its leaders who were warlords, who were hoodlums, in this area, such as Vukic, until that moment we do not protect Croatian interests and all conventions, those we bring, are essentially dead letters on paper. And once again I call on you as the Prime Minister's Presidency, the Ministry of the Interior, stop our bad moves, prevent Serbia's legal jurisdiction from being on the Croatian defenders, the quasi, which has been pushed through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is now washed by the hands, and the Ministry of Justice, has warned that there is no answer from the European Commission, any objections they have made, which is a question of 23rd and 24th chapters and that universal jurisdiction, that quasi, which Mr. Kovac is now going to speak, then simply accept as leader, to open negotiations, which he shouldn't, so whatever he says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125362	Before your colleague Kovac's debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, finally, only 2 information, firstly, you've received it by email, tomorrow, at 11 o'clock we'll hold a statement on the amendments submitted, and at 12 o'clock, we'll vote on the debate points, and then after the vote and the presentation of the club's position, we'll continue to discuss the planning points for tomorrow and the second thing is, I suggest that we unite today's debate for points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of today's agenda. The problem is similar to that, so if there's anyone against it, let them plead, you can go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125363	Mr. President, I wouldn't mind, but just in case, if that 15- to 20-minute thing didn't happen to me last time, it means... Five minutes longer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125364	Okay, right now, so we'll discuss it on behalf of the Clubs for 20 minutes, given that it's four points, thank you for the proposal. All right, now let's go to the discussion of the HDZ Representatives Club final, colleague Miro Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We've heard a lot about this Convention on Police Cooperation in Southeast Europe. The purpose of the Convention is to prevent and detect criminal offences and combat threats to public security, there is nothing disputed about it, there should be co-operation. I listened and met my colleague Ostojić about the Western Balkans, and we agree there, but we are no longer in the Western Balkans, we came out of it when we entered the EU, we are no longer in the EU in the documents, he no longer lists us as a Western Balkan country, so we have been emancipated from the area, and there we have had as much as I remember, we had a consensus in the Croatian Parliament when we started through EU integration, we did not want to be in the Western Balkans, and we are no longer part of that Western Balkans, there are now only 6 countries in the neighbourhood, BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Kosovo and Albania. These are now officially Western Balkan countries. I also listened to my colleague Bulj, who spoke about Serbia's negotiations 2.5 years ago, and I have to say clearly here, we were then in one government, the HDZ Government and the Most, and I will also very clearly say that from the Foreign Ministry, I had the honour of being at the head of the ministry, the initiative to even condition the opening of Chapter 23. No one else has done it before us. That's what we did. The decision on whether or not to open the chapters is opened by the Croatian government and the Prime Minister was Mr. Tihomir Oreskovic. Therefore, it is now in some kind of politics about things that are of national interest, not the interest of the Most or the HDZ or the SDP, but of the matters of national interest to party in this way, I find it unacceptable. I won't do it. I believe it is the duty of all of us here to monitor to what extent Serbia meets the requirements it must meet. We found 2016 zero and nothing was done, even my colleague Milenic wanted to do something from the SDP in 2015, however. Pusic was against it as foreign minister, we had a consensus at the time, we fought and installed although there were a lot of, a lot of pressures in the EU among the partners to install these 5 requirements and only when we installed the requirements, then we said we could now open negotiations and we also publicly said that Mr. Oreshkovic and my smallness in Paris, the Elisha Palace, that we would do to you after it was adopted and accepted that there are criteria that are not only Croatian criteria but also EU criteria, these are EU criteria not only Croatian. And until it comes to Serbia really starting to give information about the missing, it is an obligation, until Serbia changes its Law on War Crimes and makes its own Convention on the avoidance of the conflict of jurisdiction, until it applies its legal framework to minorities, as well as to a Croatian minority who must have its own representative on the basis of an agreement between Croatia and Serbia on the protection of minorities, until the issue of compensation for war victims as does Montenegro, it will not be possible for Serbia to enter the EU and there is nothing anti-Serbian, it is a matter of fundamental rights, a question of the functioning of the judiciary, and not what Mrs said. Pusic that someone in Croatia is playing that bigger Croat or God forbid, I was horrified, I was shocked when I heard the word itch. It's scary, it's spreading hate speech. We are here to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, of our citizens, of our citizens, of any origin that they were and of Serbs, but until these issues are resolved for the victims of the war, the issue of abolishing this law or modifying the law that there is no longer a conflict of jurisdiction until the issue of the right of the Croatian minority is resolved, there will be no entry into the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125366	Comrade Grmoy, here's your request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125367	Thank you, Your Honor. So in the context of what counterpart Kovac said and co-operation with Serbia, it is quite clear that it was not MOST foreigner on this issue but Minister Pejcinović Buric called exactly the Minister of Justice because of the opening of the chapter, it went to the MOST and it is quite clear that it was then a technical government, that you as a technical minister were headed in this direction and that on the Justice Ministry's pages you still have the announcement of then technical minister Ante Sprlje who opposes such a decision and says that although we can continue to intervene as a Member State means if there is a need, that what is now agreed, that it is not a guarantee that all Croatia's demands will be respected and that this draft means a common point of view for opening chapters that they are such as opening space for different interpretations and ambiguity, means your colleague in the government is actually criticising you and says that it does not agree with this decision. So it should be made clear to Croatian citizens that the Ministry of Justice has not agreed with this draft, and in conclusion, the Ministry of Justice has never received feedback on the possible acceptance or non-acceptation of the objections of the Ministry of Justice by the European Commission or the Ministry of Justice has never received any insight into the final text of the EU common position on chapters 23 and 24 of the negotiations with the Republic of Serbia. You went straight as a minister, you set up a committee to monitor it, and I welcome it, but what's the problem now is that this commission doesn't come together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125368	Thank you. It can't be a replica. You're looking for a break, please. Yeah, yeah. All right, we've got a 10 minute break. We'll be back at 11 and 15. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125369	Next time after the meeting, good. Let's get back to work. I have to conclude the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125370	Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Police Cooperation in Southeast Europe, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 491, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for, 40 abstentions, have been passed by the Law confirming the Convention on Police Cooperation in Southeast Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125371	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Facilitation and Elimination of the Consequent Accidents, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 428; the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Does the Secretary of State, Mr Zdravko Zrinasic, proposer's representative, want further explanation, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125372	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, respected representatives and representatives of HS, Proposal for a Law on the Facilitation and Elimination of the consequences of natural disasters was adopted at the 9th session of the HS Conclusion of 12 October 2018. Both this bill and this final draft of the law, it is defined as a natural disaster, and then it would only repeat it briefly. These are earthquakes, storm and hurricane winds, fires, floods, droughts, hails, rain that freezes in contact with the ground, frost, extremely high snow height, snow applications, avalanches, build-up of ice on water streams, skating, gliding, immersion and overturning of land, and other phenomena of such magnitude, which, depending on the local circumstances, cause significant disturbances in the lives of people in a particular area. As we know, fires, floods, floods and other natural disasters have become increasingly common problems with which local self-government units are not able to handle themselves, and property damages are very high and very difficult to compensate for, especially if the property is not secured. In recent years, damages in the Republic of Croatia have been numbered in billions of kunas, and in this sense only gave or repeated certain statistics, according to official data, the damage reported was 1.55 billion kuna, of which in agriculture as much as $1.47 billion. In 2017 the damage reported was even more, 3.49 billion kuna, of which in agriculture 1.88. In 2018, the level of damage reported has fallen and well that is so, but it remains an extremely large amount. So far, the damages reported for 2018 are 450,9 million kuna, of which in agriculture they amount to 194,3 million kuna. So, if we sublime this for the last 6 years, the damage reported in the midst of natural disasters amounts to a total of $12.59 million. The inability of the state, and in particular the unit of local and regional self-government to provide financial assistance for the purpose of the recovery of the damages suffered, is evident through, I would say the devastating figures allocated to the damages reported over the past 6 years totalled 194,3 million kuna. This indicates the need to change the way the state has acted so far in part to resuscitate damages since the current system of aid allocation has become unsustainable. Consensus and coordination of all levels of government, as well as participants of the state administration body in the process of reporting and assessing damages, this normative solution expects more effective action when granting aid to the damages that have been done, with a view to more adequate assistance to those who are most in need of assistance when doing natural disasters. One of the most important initiatives of this final bill is to point out the necessity of collateral, which can be partly and encouraged in accordance with the applicable rules, mainly in the agriculture sector where the greatest damage to natural disasters is recorded. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that a large part of the property is insecure, so partial recovery of damage from border sources from the state budget is insufficient to reduce the overall economic damage. Therefore, collateral is the only long-term solution that will ultimately contribute to reduced economic losses, and in this respect, the state will seek to find solutions that would subsidise the paid insurance premium, including EU sources. Once again, we would like to emphasise the important role of this law in terms of setting up a register of damages which will provide data by name and before any natural and legal person who has reported damage, type of damage and amount of damage. Such data represent the first and systematic database of the damage caused by natural disasters. It will thus provide timely information on the types of damage in a given area which the other authorities of the state administration will also be able to benefit from, therefore, self-registration in order to protect personal data is not public, so they will also have to take care of this segment in terms of the protection of personal data. Based on a set of up-to-date data verification criteria on the damage suffered by the Commissions, as well as control of possible irregularities by the competent authorities of the state administration, including the State Commission, it will seek to reduce potential manipulations in terms of the occurrence of damages and by giving incorrect values to property damage. The above should also affect the transparent display of all data and the fair distribution of funds for partial recovery of damages from natural disasters. The provisions of the proposed law also recognise specific circumstances, which include, in addition to that, the social status of damages, so that the principle of humanitarianity or solidarity is respected in this section. Of course, in addition to this legislative proposal as one of the normative solutions aimed at reducing the negative consequences of natural disasters, there are other options that are complementary to this law, and are made up of the provisions of the rules which allow the adoption of a State aid programme in accordance with the provisions of the State aid rules... services or agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to take into account and to stress that the provisions of this law do not pre-determin the right to compensation of natural or legal persons but this normative solution is one important part of the humanitarian character through the provision of assistance and partial recovery of damages in endangered areas, whether it is public infrastructure or housing and business units, ultimately and the protection of life and the health of people in the areas affected by natural disasters. With regard to the main news prescribed by the final law in relation to the draft law, it is that the work has been carried out in the nomotechnical sense of the law itself in order to improve the clarity of the text of the law based on the comments of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Law. Furthermore, while respecting the views of individual representatives of this House expressed in the parliamentary debate during the first reading, observations concerning the transport of damages to buildings for which they did not, for which no solutions on the state of play have been adopted, were accepted. illegal buildings. In this respect, amendments to the text of the final draft of the law have been made in such a way as to take into account those structures for which the decision on the state of play was initiated before the natural disaster occurred. With regard to the part of the population that is socially at risk, provisions have been added which prescribe the grant of aid for damages to illegally built housing in cases of socially endangered damages. During the debates and the parliamentary committees, certain examples have been presented in the sense that they are closer to regulations themselves, which is the status of socially endangered persons or economic operators, and in this sense, I suppose, during this debate, they will also produce certain better-quality solutions than they are now and we are ready to accept them, of course. The comments on the responsibilities of the committees of the city, general and county for the assessment of damages from natural disasters have also been accepted and provision has been added for members of the commission to be appointed by persons with a good reputation and with expertise. Here's a thank you for everyone's attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125373	Thank you, too. You have three replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125374	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, this law should go to meet to help our citizens from natural disasters and natural disasters. We are witnessing that every year due to climate change, they are increasingly happening and are increasingly pronounced and that the damage is increasing. And in this way, as foreseen in the state budget with only 20 million kuna for the recovery of damages and this model that will be paid to citizens up to 5% of the value of the damaged pension simply makes those citizens not to report the damage. This is a citizens' scam, nice ministers are painted where there are elemental accidents, floods, everyone runs in front of cameras, promises and damages, and when the cameras are shut down, there's no money, and people are disappointed. I don't think this is a good model and that the state has to get involved more seriously here to help our citizens because insurance houses are running from crop and plant insurance and our farmers are not able to finance it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125375	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125376	Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Representative. It is clear from what we have briefly stated in the introductory part of the law and as well as the discussions we had on the parliamentary committees that this law is not something that should be the solution to this issue that you raise but it is a much wider scope in terms and other measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can take under other regulations, including its powers. Here we want to create a healthy framework in terms of first and foremost ensuring a register of damages and obtaining a quality database that will not be polluted by inaccuracies or data that are simulated and the like. As a result, this law does not restrict the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by virtue of existing and other positive regulations, including EU regulations, to help affected areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125377	Thank you. At the last minute, two other MPs came forward, so there are five replicas all together. The other line has Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125378	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. We are witnessing that as a result of climate change, more and more natural disasters and disasters are becoming a serious threat and, of course, these threats have not gone beyond our homeland. We are witnessing that a few years ago never again fires, floods and snow blizzards in the last year. Here you listed the damages of these natural disasters, but what is most important to me in all of this, we in all of these disasters didn't have any mortal victims, and that's the most important thing in all of this. And now around the law there will be those who will support as well as colleagues from Vlaovic who will be against it. I think we should bring it in, but I stress that the most important thing in all of this is that, thanks to our powers of protection and rescue, no person has died in our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125379	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125380	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, and thank God that's how it was when in the whole world this trend of the increase in elemental disasters was that when we had already been that there were no human casualties. And I will thank, of course, certain institutions of this country as well as associations operating on the ground, such phenomena I hope will continue to be restricted and there will be no human casualties thanks to the preventive action on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125381	The third line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125382	Thank you very much. The question of the consequences of, i.e. A key problem has been observed so far that people are not being compensated for damages such as: which was in a fire in Dalmatia. 3 persons whose houses have been burned down have not been compensated for damages in amounts. And that's the key problem. This law must be at the heart of those who will be affected by natural disasters both in areas and people. But we don't see any financial framework here. Nor is the financial framework present in the budget and the amendments were given not enough for elemental disasters and this is visible from the fire that took place in Dalmatia last year, i.e. The last one. What are you doing about it? It must be at the center of the area, especially every man, and without a financial framework, just a register to have, it's an empty letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125383	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125384	Thank you very much for asking. As can be seen from the law itself, the adoption of financial plans is envisaged, i.e. the framework for action for the end, i.e. by the end of October of the current year, for the teaching year, in terms of preventive action. Of course, the financial framework is always limited to the budget of the local self-government unit, and also to the state budget. What we wanted to point out here is that it is not the only way for damages to be paid through this legal framework, but we also have a mass of other funds offered only by the EU and this law is also intended to be financed from the EU, certain costs in connection with the elemental disasters. The second is what the legislation wants to encourage, that people try and want to secure their property and that the state will finance the paid premium of such insurance. It's a lot... A much lower level of the guaranteed paid premium than the damage would have been secured tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125385	It's your turn now, Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125386	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Secretary of State. So here, I'm looking at this law from which we're actually going to produce a damage register that will be one then database that should be one basis for better and better quality management, I'm going to say with elementary disasters, because today we have financial resources from the state budget, so we have something in Croatian roads for elemental disasters, so now we have something in the news in Croatian waters, so we should get there I hope for a framework, for a better, better management and the way in which of course we're going to compensate. It won't be possible, of course, without any more serious designing, a more serious model of a subsidisation of the insurance premium. And I will have just one more question, specifically, in these natural disasters, that is, natural disasters, which you have listed, no mention of, no mention of the damage caused by major plant and animal disturbances, specifically the golden jaundice of the vine, which has been found in the vineyards in 10 Croatian counties, a very intense disease, I think it should also stand, here in this bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125387	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125388	Thank you very much. And thank you for the elaborate and questioning, my colleague is subfling that this should be understood in the context of what is defined as damage, however, I would point out that the Ministry of Agriculture is so competent in the context of its action of such a thing, it prevents and through part of the subsidies it does, that it pays for such things to damaged persons and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125389	Last line, Mr. Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125390	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. In 2017 there were great floods in the historic royal city of Nin near Zadar, I am interested in how much the ministry contributed to the recovery of the city of Nin, after the great and huge damages that were there. The media reported that only 21% of the confirmed damages were co-financed by the state and this is one experience from one man, who says he has collected 260 thousand kunas of damage, and has not received a single 50 kuna of damage. Can you comment specifically on Nin and how much the state has contributed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125391	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125392	Thank you very much. A colleague... a table where we have analysis of each individual damage, I have a global in the context of preparation for presentations of the law itself, and in that sense, at this point, I can only say that these are extremely high figures, and as far as the city of Nin is concerned, we will look at, if we do not have such information here, we can get it and later communicate about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125393	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Miro Bulj's first in front of the Independent List Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125394	The need for this law was long ago. However, the law itself, as a law, is stated which all falls under natural disasters. We see here when I read that natural disasters are not an example of a very big accident that happens often in the city of Split, where the water supply system is polluted. Of course, that's why our citizens have enormous damage, and that's what's happening in other cities of ours. Here, for example. ... is often polluted, so for days people are forced to buy water in stores or otherwise organize local self-government and ask other local self-government for help in drinking water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you should think about this part and put it in this frame, because water is the most important thing, mainly in large areas, such as Split, it comes to clouded and water and water is simply not drinkable. You've listed a number of things here. In fact, what you should think most about, that's the financial framework. Yes, the financial framework is from EU funds, you speak, from donations and from the state budget. In the budget of the state there are 20 million kn. It's really for the Republic of Croatia, when we're fed up with elementary disasters, the forecast is minor. I don't know if it's 1% of what's happened on average in the last 10 years in terms of natural disasters. It means average yearly. Amendments have been made, he's been warned about that. So this law must be at the heart of the area of local self-government, but of course, first of all, a man who, persons, legally physically, either of those farmers, what you've listed here, all of these terms, that you put in this bill. The key is the financial framework, we don't have it, we mention donations, so it can't be all verse. So donations yes, that was proven when the floods were in Slavonia those when they broke, when there was a huge flood. I don't think this law has given us a solution here, except that you've put on one of the mystic concepts that have been around most of the time, where we're talking about the Commissions of damages from local, state, regional to state, who's in the membership of these bodies. In essence, this Law does not solve a key problem, and that is every citizen of ours. Here's an example of agriculture. You're talking about drought here, and it's amazing that there's a drought in the Sinj field in the summer, but that's the Ministry of Agriculture, in 2019, we don't have a irrigation system, and more the Cetina River throws out in one day of water than all the springs in Israel annually. And at this point, we don't have systemic irrigation, it's dry. So prevention is a system of irrigation, not 20 million kunas of disgrace in the RH budget. Well, that's not enough for a smaller municipality in Slavonia where people deal with agriculture. Therefore, the Registrar damage, from behind the fire, has not been paid for by people and is done selectively. They pay off 100% of the damage, because of some kind of elemental accident, and that's okay, and somewhere it doesn't pay off. And of course, when we talk about infrastructure, we need to know that winters are much sharper in mountainous mountainous areas and that it is much harder to maintain infrastructure. In Gorski Kotar 6 months of winter, in Lica snow, this triba maintains, this triba pays and cannot be the same legal framework for Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora di half a year to invest in the maintenance of roads, cleaning and decommissioning of these roads, behind it remains huge damages, impact holes on these roads, have no budgetary capacity to maintain it, have no budgetary capacity, Zagreb can do so because, for example, Zagreb can do so. and membership fee, tourist membership fee, regardless of what we have, HT in our cities, complete membership fee goes away because it is registered HT in Zagreb, Zagreb is leaving. However, undeveloped areas, our regions, in Sinj, which is a large area, Vrgorački end, Dalmatia Zagora, Zagorje, where they have no financial capacity, so how will the people in this legal framework get what? You say local self-government can't secure anything after winter. Last year I was in, behind that big snow, in the Gorski kotar with the mayors and mayors, so their damage is that 5 times the budget, the whole budget, could not repair the damage on the roads, local roads, could not repair it, no matter what Croatian forests with large trucks do to them, they took over the trees, regardless, they were left to themselves. So here's one, here's where the Ministry of Regional Development needs to get involved, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Fire Department. There's a whole series of very important aspects here, this is not enough. This is what we know, and if we don't have a financial framework, if we just stated that we have budgets, donations and EU funds, then that, and in the budget of the state, we have 20 million, and 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia's local self-government will be very difficult to maintain, very difficult with this Law, not hard, but not at all. So, we didn't help the farmer here, we didn't help the endangered areas in Slavonia, we didn't help areas where local self-government units have major damage and consequences from the natural disasters, which means winter, snow, cleaning, impact holes. They didn't help the cities that have polluted water here, did the triba have any calculations... Splitian swimming pool can have several, per week, no contact with drinking water, except in, so, with public water. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have a number of problems, but they're not listed here, nor is the legal framework given here. This Law is more, let's say, the Pear Act, that lipo people listen to, that people see that there are some measures here listed, that there will be some register, that there are Committees of Municipal, City, County, State, how in these Committees the Ministry will determine its people, but it is not, it is already known, and today there are Committees and there are Committees in Parliament, I think, in Parliament. If we don't have a financial framework, if the envelope of 20 million kuna is financial in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, then this law is unnecessary. He's a lip and a urinal reading. The above are true, it is all stated that we do not have a legal framework, which is natural disasters, significant concepts, commissions, everything is stated, we do not have a legal framework. And we don't have measures that the Ministry should take on agriculture, so, for example, On the issue of droughts it is necessary from the Ministry of Finance to invest for the irrigation of the Sinj field, the Vrgorak field, I don't know, and then there is no drought because you will give more money for the drought, rather than to invest in irrigation. So, this Law is a pear framework that this government of the Republic of Croatia will be able to praise for bringing it. As far as the financial framework is concerned, he doesn't exist, he's mature. So those who are damaged by this Law in the elemental disasters of natural, especially natural disasters will absolutely have nothing. I believe that what you wrote in this law is, I think I know it's inconclusive, I wish you were in this law that you gave the assignments to the ministries that the ministry has to do, which sector, otherwise this law will be a dead letter on paper, I'm sorry, but it's a dead letter on paper. We can say it now and owe it, but I simply have no other words but, a dead letter on paper, if the law, if the budget is 20 million kuna, if we know that in situations where the elemental disasters to which it is being done are not believed and I hope that.../incomprehensible/... this weather disaster but I know that this law does not bring anything good about solving natural elemental disasters, nothing. There's no good here, there's not at the heart of that law a man, an individual or some local self-government or I don't know any area, this is just a list of what would tribal. And of course we're going to hear your debate, of course I'm going to try to see again, but this doesn't happen to the amendments, because this has to be much more serious, much more serious, I believe that you're not going to know what we're going to do in the end as soon as possible to find another solution that doesn't happen as it happened when there was a flood in Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125395	It is now up to Mr. Josip Križanić, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125396	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague, so we have a proposal to finalize and eliminate the consequences of natural disasters, and I will speak again on behalf of the club as always about the scale and again and again, expressing regret that we cannot replicate each other's exposure to clubs because there are most interesting discussions and anything I could already replicate to my colleague Bulju, but we are going from the beginning. Therefore, this bill proposes to help our people to report damage to the register of damages, and the aid will be granted depending on the type and damaged assets of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia or the EU funds or donations. Whether it's enough or not, it's always, it can't be enough, but we'll get there. The register of damages shall be established to provide data by the name of any natural and legal person who has reported damage, the type of damage and the amount of damage and such data shall represent the first database of the damage caused by natural disasters. The methodology for assessing the damage from the elemental accidents is the general part of all points other than point A1. and A2. become an integral part of this law in order to make it more clear to the adoption of a new Regulation. Now that's important, so the law, I talked about it, and last time it's going to be operational only when we bring in a new evaluation methodology and that new rule. So, there are a lot of things that need to be changed about the rulebook, as president of the Committee for the Elimination of Natural Accidents, can be confirmed and my secretary and Mr Zrinasic know this, and we need to start the issue as soon as possible to get that rule passed. So, for example, the chiefs reported damages on unclassified and local roads, when we were paying for damages, we didn't know exactly what these damages were related to, given that there were so-called state, county and non-classified roads. The local roads that belong to the Žunca intelligence. Also often times, the commission could not make a decision on the price list of agricultural products because these prices were quite, very different, for example. the price of a kilo of geese 50 kuna was offered, and the turkeys 7 kuna, there were also plenty of non-transparent prices of cereals, plums or apples. In future, it would be good for such evaluations to be made, for such assessments to bring unique prices at the beginning of the year, a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and to be used by the TISUP or the State Statistics Office, to make them more transparent and more accurate to obtain information in that Regulation so that the Commission will not have the opportunity to improvise. The bill would exclude damages that provided their assets, which is an intensities aimed at a greater conscience of every natural and legal person for the importance of collateral. It is prescribed that the compensation for damages should only apply to legalised buildings, or for which a rule of law has been adopted under the prescribed rules. Since the Law on Legalisation is still up to date, many of the facilities are still illegal, especially barns, pigs, stalls, especially with these economic facilities, and it is good that the second reading has respected the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture that damages that have been caused by the legalisation process before the damage to the elemental disasters. Step is also done by respecting our suggestions from the first reading, which is that the aid from natural disasters can also be granted to illegally built economic, residential buildings in cases of socially endangered damages. So, the intensity was good, but due to the different, because of the clear statements I submitted the amendment today, I will read it to you about this part, so in Article 20(5), we suggest that, exceptionally from paragraph 4(4) of this article, the means to help mitigate and partially remove the consequences of natural disasters can also be allocated to damages from illegally built housing social care users with recognised rights in the social care system, certain regulations governing both the area of social care and other related acts by the competent authorities of the state administration. So this amendment also changes Article 20 of the final law, and that is exactly where we wanted to clarify the concept of socially endangered citizens, or in order to define that, within the meaning of this law, citizens are socially endangered, those citizens with a recognised right in the social system, so that we will not have a dilemma, which is precisely because the very broad term was socially endangered citizens. The second amendment relating to Article 43 of the Action Plans referred to in Article 17(1) of the Law for 2019 shall be adopted by the representative body of the units of the regional (regional) self-government and the City of Zagreb City Assembly by the end of February 2019. This is purely because the law will be passed these days and would not be passed in such a way as was provided for in Article 43. Furthermore, the responsibility of the State Commission would limit the grant of aid for partial recovery from agricultural damage to 50% of the total planned funding for the current year. The same can be increased to a maximum of 70%. When we talk about serious agricultural production, natural disasters are at risk of business. So that's where we wanted to reverse the agricultural damage to insurance because since last year there is a possibility of 75 000 euros per household or one legal or physical person being co-financed by as much as 70% of EU agricultural production insurance. And we need to make maximum use of this option in order for the damages that have been in agriculture so far because we paid the most from the state budget damage precisely for agriculture in order to remain more money for other damages, it would be good and necessary to divert and damage to agriculture, especially serious agricultural production, where I think of the OPGs and farmers who are professionally engaged in agriculture towards insurance. So such damages, 70% co-financed by the EU, we have a model in Varazdin County that 20% more co-financed by the county and if it is included with 5% of JLS, practically 5% remain agricultural, which should be used and it would be a shame that the funds are then paid from the state budget for damages. I retain the reserve that in the event of a co-financing of EU agricultural production insurance funds, this article is put out of effect because our agricultural production in that segment, unless these funds were recovered from the EU, would not be able to consume the compensation for the damage and could not finance it itself. That wouldn't be good. The procedures of the competent authorities in the event of damages and the tasks of the commission and operational obligations for the assessment of damages to data in the Register shall be regulated and shall determine the criteria preceding the cooperation of all involved. It is good to prescribe the responsibility of mayors and municipal chiefs for the purpose of using the aid allocations and to refer to the responsibility of municipal, urban and county committees for the implementation of measures to assess the removal of the consequences of natural or natural disasters. So far, we've had a situation where no one answered, that the damages were deliberately inflated, the state commission had no ability to see the damage, and that's a good thing for the law to give greater responsibility to municipal and city committees. It is also prescribed that the Government of the Local and Regional Self-Government Units can assign and help hastily in the event of major-scale damage that threatens the health of the population's lives in areas affected by natural disasters. And now we come to these famous funds, meaning the compensation activities for the damage caused by the elemental disasters in the state budget secured by 20 million. About the fact that I as chairman of the commission can say that this is never enough, however we had a situation that was in 2017. The government's rebalancing determined as much as 100 million which is a lot more than 20 and yet it was far too small so I don't know which number would be enough there but it's certainly some initial number from which it's moving. For the Registrar the damage is secured 400,000 a year and for the assessment of the damages from the elementary disasters is provided 160,000 kuna which is more than ever and it is good that between two readings for the work of the state commission precisely in order to control the assets on the ground are secured for some diaries, expenses, overnights, it has not been so far and it has been difficult to post-festum after the evaluation of 6 months. from the Parliament office to determine whether or not these damages were, now it is different so that the commission will be able to come out on the ground and see directly what the damage was. This law stipulates that the commission gives the Croatian Parliament an annual report according to the assessment of the damage and the cost of the funds which is good. It is also good that the number of members has been increased from 10 to 14 commissions, so the commission has been strengthened with representatives of the Ministry of Economy, environmental protection, sea, transport and infrastructure. It would be even clearer to identify some sublaws and rules of procedure criteria for the selection of expert committees providing professional assistance to municipal and urban services. And finally, I would like to say that it is very important to prescribe it as soon as possible and until in detail regulations, procedures, forms and registers so as to prevent any subsequent intervention into the system. It happens often and then we as a state commission have a problem with it so that everything is as transparent as often complaints that delay then execution and confirmation of damage from the state commission occur. The HDZ Club will support this law, as well as these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125397	Now it's Mr. Marco Vedligaj's turn in front of the SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125398	Thank you, Vice President HS. Here, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State, has already been said several times today that the purpose of this legal framework is to improve the existing system of aid for the mitigation and removal of the consequences of natural disasters, and so is the title of this law. To say that to experience a natural or elemental disaster, as it contained this same law in the last format, for every citizen, for a unit of local self-government is one difficult, one extraordinary situation and unfortunately today in the light of climate change that we witness these natural disasters, and natural disasters are more common, they are much more destructive, more and more medialy accompanied, so we have, I will say, all of us and greater sensitivity always for them. I can say that as mayor of these disasters, I really looked at myself, primarily the glides that abound the Krapina-Zagorian County, but also the fight, there were droughts, there were floods. And at first we have this little notional problem of a natural or natural disaster, so we're going to stop the fact that it's a law on the protection of elemental disasters, we have now this proposal of the Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, I don't know, maybe it would just be wrong to conclude that it's a whole new law, or actually this continuity of the law that ceases to apply because maybe in some parts of the natural and elemental accident it wouldn't be this one and the same thing, we have some touch points, but let's let this term part go now. What citizens are always interested in, after that happens to them, is compensation for the damage. There were the big ones, the small ones, always the question is whether we're going to get anything from the state, from the city, from the county, if it's going to be depriving us and somehow help us, and that's what I think is the key question actually of this law, whether the citizens themselves will benefit from it, whether, I said before and in the replica, just setting up a register of damages, which I see as the biggest news of this law, one good thing that has this law, will this register finally be one beginning to establish a system of compensation for these natural disasters? Here's a few data, over the last 5 years, the damage reported in the midst of natural disasters was nearly $12.5 billion, and it was allocated by the use of 174 million, so some 1.5% of the total damage to the citizens. Of course no one expects it to be real, that it's natural that this whole amount of damage is going to take place, and we always have some things that we can discuss and talk about, and it's just an assessment of the damage that they're going to damage. But did we actually establish a model? We didn't. Of course not. The damage register is one beginning, but a lot of things are, which unfortunately are not defined by this law, and perhaps they could. But a lot of laws, unfortunately, are such, to bring one framework, and after that we wait for programmes, we wait for measures that the government needs to adopt, and in these situations, unfortunately, citizens do not have time. I'm going to look a little bit more at the slides where here, abounds our entire country, especially this northern part, we've had in the last few years here really big problems with that, some slides have got less treatment, some have got bigger media treatment. For example, in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County a total of 300 rinks, damage estimates of 112 million, so, that is, those are also the damages that are naturally found on both county and non-classified and local roads that are under the control of ZUC, but unfortunately many people have experienced that they have to move out of their housing facilities and have not yet received compensation for it, and I don't think that in such cases we should at all be thinking about whether or not someone has secured it, it's usually about people living in rural areas, living in villages, and if this policy is and the attitude that we are trying to keep our lives in those areas, then we should intervene there, in fact, immediately. Another thing I want to point out is this problem of winter service that I see is that it is mentioned in these natural disasters, this one actually article di could be fooled, these extreme winter conditions unfortunately affect a large part of our territory, here is the Gorski kotar we have a constant problem here, but the problem is also numerous in continental counties, in Krapina-Zagorje, parts and Varazdinska, Međimurje County, Koprivnica-križevci, etc. For example, in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County, there were major natural disasters in the past two years, and these amounts that the units of local self-government exceeded were significantly greater than what they had planned. Now, I expected that something of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas here would solve, but we got a law there, which, we see now by regulation, determined which local units are entering the range of mountain-mounted areas, and they might have some help for that, and the others that didn't enter, unfortunately won't. So we haven't solved anything again. I'm saying this because such laws should actually be connected in some way. When they are passed, then through laws we should solve these problems, because when you look at the average incomes available to local self-government units, especially in the northern parts of the Republic of Croatia. These average revenues are far too short to ensure a quality level, a communal level, which is certainly today and is snow-cleaning. What I have also pointed out before is that I am sorry that it is not specifically stated, even if I know of some activities that have been undertaken only by the Ministry of Agriculture, but I believe that this should also stand in the Law, that is, the damage that has been caused by major disturbances in plants and animals. I will mention, therefore, a golden jaundice or phytoplasm which, here I have found, by the end of 2016, appeared in vineyards in as many as 10 Croatian counties, perhaps even more so today, is a very aggressive disease, a disease they say is almost inexhaustible and I think we should have taken this a little more seriously and that we will need to take it more seriously if we think we all agree, that viticulture is one of the key agricultural branches that we have, one branch in which we have made a big step, we have entered the world market, improved the quality of wine, so we must prevent such a thing from happening. Ensuring the property itself, as I said earlier, is not expected to compensate for this total amount because fiscal capacities are neither state nor city nor county are sufficient for that. But I don't see that we're going in the direction of some kind of, clear co-financing policy of agricultural, co-financing of insurance, primarily agricultural crops, after that and, and other assets by the state, and in the end, it all comes down to a way to get some money, something if the rebalancing stays at the end of the year, and then we make sure. This real amount we have in the $20 million budget is definitely too small. I also proposed to the amendments to the 2017 budget, 2018, even for this 2019 year to raise to 100 million kuna, it always comes in the end, but usually with a rebalance, but it's kind of a minimum. In light of these climate changes that we are witnessing, in light of the very aggressive elemental disasters we have, it is the minimum minimum minimum that should be secured in the state budget, in order to at least partially compensate, in order to be able to partially subsidise insurance premiums and start building one system, otherwise these amounts should be probably 200, 300 million kuna. We now have the means, not only is it true, it's not only those 20 million kunas, we tried the rinks and through the Environment Fund, something has been tried through Croatian roads, now something is going through Croatia's waters. So we have a lot of things that have been scattered and I also expected it to be a little bit clearer and more specific everything defined through this Law, but I believe that, here, through some even more maybe regulations, regulations, it will define it. Many articles are in the very law relating to the work of the Committees. In the field, you're making a big difference. Getting quality people to participate in the work of the Committee is very difficult, however, all related to finance because it is difficult for someone to engage more seriously today, especially if they have some expertise and be in the work of some commission. I'd like to welcome it, perhaps, that a little bit of a boost to this state's board of elemental disasters, I think it should be given to him, I'm the same member, that he needs to be given one greater meaning and meaning. As for these sources, I have, therefore, focused on, it is listed inside, the sources are the budget and budget of the units of local self-government, the EU funds, yes, for some major elemental disasters, but you know how rigorous things are, and natural disasters are some things that need to be intervened very quickly and be active there. Methodology, self-evaluation of damage, I think that would give you a lot to talk about, there's plenty of room to improve. Also, just briefly mentioned inside, but well that's something to come, in fact, in the work of the State Committee itself. I agree here, someone mentioned that we should exclude that property which is secured, of course, but provided that these people, who have proved to be conscious citizens, find a model either through the budget or perhaps primarily through the budgets of the county, cities, municipalities, to subsidize the insurance premium, primarily, once again, for agricultural crops. The question of illegal property, of course, for social cases I support it, but for everyone else who didn't do it, but it was their obligation, I think that one bad message that we're sending anyway, of course, if an elemental accident happens, if his house collapses, he needs help, but then through the law there should be very careful. All in all, I'm going to say, here, for the end, it's a certain shift, I believe that this registry is really going to live up to and that it's going to be one basis that we can build one system that will primarily help citizens who are in difficult situations, and that each of these natural disasters is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125399	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Branko Hrg's turn outside the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, our club will support the bill because in the extreme case of all previous debates it is noticeable that it is a law that definitely offers certain improvements, of course it can always be better, that it can always be improved, that we always have the opportunity to still, looking at the effects that the Law has, improve the same. Certainly, as almost all predecessors pointed out, that the introduction of the Register is one of the most important things in the Law, because if we do not have one place to say so, then we have a problem and there are always opportunities and certain manipulations and dissatisfactions and various problems, so that the introduction of this register is in every case one good thing and all the damages that arise in principle when we get to the point that they are all introduced, that they are included, that they can be assessed so, that certain automation and assessment of the damages, that automation solves these claims, to solve and pay the damages, will certainly cause certain satisfaction, security in the system and the integrity of that system. Because it's really hard when a commission is formed, eventually getting out of this job so that someone doesn't complain to you, not saying it here was like this, it could've been like that, and that kind of thing definitely needs to be solved in a way that's more technical and not so arbitrary on the ground. What I'd like to say is that I've been reading this law the same way, that the intensity of this law is to motivate people to be insured. Especially in agricultural production and there is one big role and local self-government. I think that local self-governments as the form of government closest to citizens play this big role and that they can greatly help education people, show opportunities, point out what, what they can get, because if people can get 70% of the funding for a farm crop or culture policy or their production of agriculture, then in any case, it's positive and I think it should go as far as possible and it's normal that in that other part of the people who have provided their production do not belong to that category that should receive additional funding from countries or local self-government. What is also positive is enabling units of local self-government so-called. haste those damages, haste interventions, because in principle there is always a problem that should be at the same time as some damage happens to jump in with help and local self-government leaders practically have that possibility more clearly defined. In some ways, whenever we talk about damages or elemental disasters, we return most to agricultural producers and the biggest problems that occur in the end, and just before, my colleague Vesligaj was also talking about a problem that is present in Croatia where on several occasions there have been speeches and spreads on the Committee of Agriculture, which is the golden jaundice of the vine. In some ways, if we look to try to target agricultural producers towards the insurance of cultures, and if we know that insurance companies do not provide this kind of damage, so it remains for us to have one gap left to say where we have to intervene and where both the state and local self-government together and when I speak locally, I mean, of course, municipalities, cities and counties, together they have to help suppress that pest, but also, of course, in the recovery of damages. And it's out of its own resources since you can't do it through insurance companies. I've checked with 2, 3 insurance companies before, so I'm told they don't provide that kind of damage. So I'm looking at it here in a way that the amount that the state provides in the budget that local and regional self-government provide in their budgets will generally need to be directed in that direction and will contribute to those damages that cannot be compensated in some other way. I repeat that there is a really big job in front of the local self-government after the adoption of this law, that it really goes into education, enhanced education, enhanced explanation of the opportunities that agricultural producers will have, that local self-governments in that part also include additional ones. I know that we used to have programs where somewhere around 75% of the policy was practically co-financed, 25% of it was at the expense of the agricultural producer itself, so now we're back in that part, and I think it really should go as far as possible because those damages that have so far been compensated from the state budget or somewhere, with some help from local self-government, have really caused both the revolt and the anger of the people, and it was all very tragic when people really got a couple of kunas for some damage they reported, did a big job, scouted on the ground, all of it all worked out at the end of all this together, no one got any use. So, this register and the entry of a lot of these things will in some ways help to resolve more technically and it will be easier in any case follow-up together, and it will be especially important when it comes to that register when damage is recorded in one period it will be able to actually monitor the continuity and types of certain damages and accidents, especially on agricultural areas in certain parts of the Republic, and in this way prepare itself in principle for certain interventions that are yet to follow. Now, with these few thoughts and thoughts, I repeat our club HDS, HSLS and HDSSB will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125401	Thank you very much. Now he'll take the word of Mrs. The goddess at least in front of the club of representatives of the HNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125402	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, dear Assistant Minister of Finance, colleagues and colleagues, here today in the second reading we have the Final Proposal for the Law on the Facilitation and Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, which should regulate the criteria and powers to declare a natural disaster, assess the damage and grant aid to mitigate the consequences. In front of me, my colleagues were speaking from the north, so actually, I'd look back on the same subject, but I'll start with that language sentence, whether it's a basic accident or it's a natural accident, but in art. 3. It is stated that this natural disaster is considered to be an earthquake, a stormy hurricane wind, fire, flood, drought, fighting, rain that freezes in contact with the ground, frost, an extremely high height of snow, snow-based avalanches, an accumulation of ice on water streams, skating, gliding, diving, and land-turning and under the hail. 12. We have other phenomena of such a scale that, depending on places, opportunities, cause significant disturbances in the lives of people in a particular area. There we had one remark in front of the Committee on Agriculture, and we asked for animal disease and plant disease to be listed there, the nesting of the intruders or the environmental incident. We got an explanation from the promoter that it was just included in this point. 12. Why am I talking about this? Here, both colleague Hrg and colleague Vesligai, as they come from the north, is known to be this problem of vine disease. Namely, as already said, no insurance company wants to provide vineyards from the disease because it should be protected, meaning that we are not really good at protecting these vineyards because they are sick, but we know that it is actually a phytoplasm that is spreading uncontrollably and where there is not in time the protection and control of this disease, that there are a number of other factors, that it is not now entering, but that it is becoming a major problem, it is also becoming a major problem in our counties, in our units of local self-government. However, it often happens that it is represented on one hill, it is not on another, and it does not know the territorial boundaries of units of local self-government, so if we go to look at the damage itself, it does not exceed 20% of the value of the original income of the local self-government unit for the previous year, but if we take a complete breed, it is not less by 30% of the previous three-year average because it is not evenly covered in all areas, in the same area of the local self-government unit, so we really have this problem that should be dealt with in some way as urgently as possible. Also, in front of the HNS Club, in our first reading, we had a few concerns about the fire because it says that, in the sense of this Law, the damages caused by natural disasters are not considered to have been intentionally caused on our own property, and the damages caused by negligence or the failure to take the necessary safeguard measures. Namely, when there is a fire and it is found that it is not the result of a natural disaster, it is planted. You can't find the one who set that fire, but the damage exists. And the damage is often extremely great. We also know just how much damage there is from the fires in the summer months down in Dalmatia and how it will be handled. What we consider to be extremely good is this improvement of the system of reported damages from natural disasters, and in terms of urgency, accuracy and transparency, and that it is recognised that it is necessary to keep records of the damages reported from natural disasters in one place, so the paper of this Act is just the establishment of a register of damages which will provide information on the name of every natural and legal person who has reported damage, the type of damage and the amount of damage and such data are the right database which, of course, will be able to benefit the other bodies of the state administration and all those who are in the interest to come by this data. We've all talked about insurance here. The insurance is really important because if we take that in 6 years less than 2% of the damages reported, so, of the 12.5 billion reported, 174 million kunas, that's really small. That the damages are great, they are, that everyone doesn't expect to compensate for all the damage reported and that's true, but that any harm, whether it brings us back as a private owner, whether a farmer, a few years back, some even fail to restart their production, is true. And there's a really good measure here that, as far as agricultural production or crops are concerned, some of the counties have really been involved with additional insurance and there are a large part of the municipalities and cities that are also helping their farmers to secure their crops in order to make them as small as possible. However, it is not the same that someone should pay 30%, although 100% is far more if they have to pay the whole or have to pay 10 or 5% if they still have co-financing so that it would be really good for the other units of regional and local self-government to be involved in this co-financing because insurance is always rarely and very few farmers and other citizens provide their property. This law stipulates that the insured assets are exempt from compensation in the case of natural disasters, normally because there should be compensation from insurance. And what else has been said here about Article 12 where compensation for damage was prescribed only legalized buildings, there is now an exception and here I consider good this proposal by colleagues Križanić to be precisely indicated by what is a socially endangered category that they have neither excluded themselves, regardless of what they have an illegally built facility but it is the object in which they live, work, operate, it is, in fact, the most common thing they have. The HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125403	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Davor Vlaovic's turn in front of the club of representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125404	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with an associate. So here on behalf of the HSS Club I can say about the Final Proposal of the Law on the Facilitation and Elimination of the consequences of natural disasters that this should be a good tool but that he is in reality one deception can even tell the fraud of our fellow citizens. Why do I say that? Because there are only 20 million kunas in the state budget to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters, which is too little to deal with more serious damage to our fellow citizens. What happens when an elemental accident is declared? Cameras are all there, all journalists, that's the news, read by the Prime Minister, run by all state secretaries, want to take pictures and want to show the picture that the Croatian social state, how to show empathy to citizens whose property has been destroyed and where they promise that, you will be compensated for the damage, you will be treated with these problems you have encountered. But what happens when the cameras go out? The damages are assessed, delivered, decided and ultimately citizens get tens or 100 kuna for damages. And of course they're disappointed. So why do we give them false promises that through this law and through these means we will repair their damage? It's not fair to our citizens and it's not a real relationship to our citizens. It is said that the European Social Fund can withdraw funds for the recovery of these damages and, as far as we have been successful, best shows the example of 2017, 2018 where we have failed to withdraw funds from this forest fire-recovery fund while Spain and some other countries have. And here we haven't worked out the methodology, brought it into line with the European directives so that we can withdraw from the fund, and here's one of the tasks that we need to do through the rule that's been announced and the methodologies are harmonised so that we can make quality reports, registers, and then we can withdraw funds, so we still have to say, we're not able to do that, and this example that I've cited confirms it. Also, here I would like to present the disfavor of our agricultural producers who have been instructed that through the rural development measures programme and 5.2.1., that big campaign was made after those fires in Dalmatia, report what happened to you in the fire, your orchards, olive groves, vineyards at 5.2.1., and I dare say that it cost more of this campaign on public media than our producers received funds and I cannot tell you how much they received because I asked for data from the Ministry of Regional Development in writing as a parliamentary representative and I did not answer, or I was answered that according to the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, Article 140, I sent a letter or a question. So I was wrong about the procedure, but obviously it wants to be clouded and hidden information that it cost more of this campaign on public media than it did 5.2.1. for the destroyed production potential because it's simply the largest part of it or it's not in the support system, it's not in the ARCOD and it's supposed to tell people you won't get any compensation, so the state was supposed to increase the funds from its own resources to these amounts, then we as the HSS club asked to increase that item to 200 million kuna in the budget, it was increased from 20 to 100 million, and the citizens got a couple of 100 kuna, not somewhere 3% of the total damage that is really small, and in fact we're not worth reporting damage to you because the amount is too small and it's too long, and you're not going to help yourself. It's just that this way it's not handled well. When the elemental disaster is declared, everything moves from units of local self-government, from chiefs, executive authorities, representative authorities, but it should be said that not all units of local self-government are in the same position, do not have the same fiscal capacity, there are not enough professional and quality people to do the job. And most of that work was done in the field by workers when it comes to agriculture and agricultural damage, workers of the Agricultural and Consultative Forest Service who are now gone. Now they are workers of the Ministry of Agriculture, so I ask you, who will now go out on the ground, whether the municipality will have to ask for the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture to be able to hire people and whether they will get that professional help, it is not settled and it has to be settled because in local self-government units there are not so many colleagues of agronomists, veterinarians and other professions that will not go out on the ground and provide professional assistance to the local self-government unit, the representative body and the executive authority and, behold, the state has failed and it needs to be resolved through the Regulation and methodology. It is also here, already mentioned is the problem of the average prices of agricultural products and other construction facilities that we do not have quality design and then there are different data. They say some, they're inflating the damage, and it's not true, they just want to be objective in those expertise people who work in these Committees, to do it in a quality way. I'd also like to say a few examples of the state's carelessness when it comes to resuscitating damage from elementary disasters. So, for example, Slavonski Brod, last year for Easter, you don't know who's guilty, drinking water is polluted, no drinking water, protection and rescue headquarters rises, civil protection headquarters engages in companies, drinking water is acquired, distributed, shared to citizens. However, even today, as far as I have information, these companies have not been compensated for the distributed drinking water, so I ask, the bottled bottled that was shared to the citizens, I ask the Secretary of State if there is any information, if there is no, please answer me if it will be paid, I know that all documents have been sent neatly to pay for it. Still citizens of the town of Slavonski Brod do not know who polluted the water, they got drinking water bottled, they were shared with those who were in need, and the companies that gave the water did not receive compensation for the hired funds. Well, that's not right, and it has to be fixed. And when it comes to the damages in agricultural cultures, he would point out an example of the municipality of Staro Petrovo Selo, where the assessment was made, committed in time to all 26 municipalities and 2 cities, only Staro Petrovo Selo received no compensation, and you know why, because the assessment of the damage was somewhere on agricultural cultures below 50% because people did quality and professional work, and someone at the State Committee made a decision to compensate for the damage only if it was over 50%, and the law says that it compensates for damages if it is above 30%. Let us not damage a decision-making process because someone likes it or doesn't like it, but let us be equal to everyone, let everyone have an equal chance of getting damages, especially when quality work is done on the ground. The insurance policy was also mentioned here. Yes, I suggest all agricultural producers, secure your crops and crops and your production. However, it is also important to say that insurance companies are doing market riots here, that there is no real regulated market in insurance companies, that they are blackmailing our agricultural producers, that these shelves are still high, especially now that they are co-financed by the EU, the Ministry, and even regional self-government, that prices have gone to heaven without our agricultural producers ultimately receiving adequate compensation. For example, if your fight destroys the apple so far, they only admit to you what's left on the tree and what's damaged on the tree, and what's apple under the tree, it's not a shame, it wasn't a freak. Here, these are some examples of why our people are dimming to secure crops and plantations, which the Ministry of Agriculture has to play a role in making game rules with insurance houses in order to treat our agricultural producers properly. It was mentioned here that the jaundice of the vines and there it is, the club HSS said that with 5 million kuna, as in the state budget is too little and it is only for Istrian vineyards, and what is for vineyards in Zagorje, Međimurje, and tomorrow and in Slavonia because this cricket was also observed there. And I would also announce the lack of care for swine fever where we as a club asked to put in the budget of 5 million kunas for pig farming because at the border, we are at risk of African swine fever, and here we have not predicted a single kuna to protect our pig farming, so much we care about agriculture and our production. And here, usually 15. 4. the programme starts to protect the plantations and crops from fighting, and that is a kind of elemental accident, starting an active defense against the fight. I asked the Ministry of Agriculture how many missiles were purchased in 2018 so that the defence could be implemented, they referred me to the State Hydrometeorological Institute, and I got an answer from them. Do you know how much was obtained in 2018? Not a single rocket, and the county has properly paid its share in accordance with the legal obligation. So I'm asking you, where did that money go, which is why and if it's going to end the defense against the missile fighting and leave our agricultural producers at the mercy of the elemental disasters. We want to produce food in the Republic of Croatia and do we want to protect our production? Obviously, this example does not and I ask that a tender be opened in haste for the purchase of rockets and to be secured at every missile site, in every one of our village’s rockets, and there are 300-thins in Slavonia, and thus we keep jobs in Slavonia and Baranja, that they have what to work with and protect crops as long as it is in the power that under the Law on Defence against Fights is used and missiles. Then why don't they get one? This is a kind of concern for the village and agriculture and Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125405	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Recajmir Vard's turn in front of the club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125406	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I have a need to actually highlight what the law says and in the light of the law, so I assume that this climate modeling for the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2070 was made and that, based on such assessments, you are also doing a proposal, the Final Proposal of the Law. As a result of the increased frequency and intensity of extreme weather and climate events, a change is expected. We are witnessing that due to global climate change, the Republic of Croatia is also faced with frequent natural disasters, sometimes several times over the year in the same area that causes damage to property. Now, what I'm particularly interested in is about art. 3. Final bill. St. 3 in the sense of this law, the damage to natural disasters shall not be considered to have been intentionally caused on their own property and the damage caused by negligence and/or the failure to take the necessary safeguard measures. I think this item should be expanded. What does that mean? What does that mean? If they're deliberately challenged, that's clear. Burn, destroy, that's clear to me. But, which is caused by negligence, if no plot is maintained, gardens, there is a fire that did not exactly occur in that location, but by spreading that site, that site, that parcel, crops, crops, fruit trees, etc. I think it should be in the accompanying, maybe act, maybe elaborated on the rulebook. This is exactly what we saw most of the time, especially in the case of fires, causing great damage. That's exactly the negligence. And I suggest you consider it by means of an appropriate act. As far as insurance is concerned, what counterpart Vlaovic warned of, we have opportunities to provide households or our property also to feel fat. Insurance ratios to insurance. It depends on the house to the house and depends on, for example, the neighbor has a flood in her apartment, woolen carpets, insurance, not to mention, report, so she flooded the drain water. Tell the security guard to roll up the carpets when we get there. Please. Well, when we get there. What's left of it. Let's make a deal, give me something to throw away those carpets. Therefore, here I think there is an obligation for the ministry, where you will end up providing EU funds for the peace of these damages, to sort of negotiate or find in a public tender for insurance companies with a certain risk, but its risk will be far less than it is now. And Art. 15 expert committees. It's pretty clear to me what you're alluding to, but it depends, normally and on the kind of damage or fire or flood or thunder or the crash of a plane or something, but it seems to me that this article should also be determined at least in general, depending on the type of damage, a professional commission is established. It can't be the same for everyone. That's a shame. So depending on the type of damage. It is only in case due to lack of specific knowledge, the damage assessment of unnatural disasters cannot be done at the level of local self-government or the city of Zagreb. Here, along with this note, the Labour Party Club and solidarity and independent representatives, without the Reformers, have informed the Secretariat in due time, will accept this proposal, the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125407	Thank you, too. Data will be updated. Now we move on to individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj is first in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125408	Thank you very much. I will repeat what I said on behalf of the club, that the final proposal of the Law on easing and removing the consequences of natural disasters is what should be needed and what should be, but not within the framework of 20 million kn in the state budget, and I will explain this financial framework once again because there must be some criteria that will be defined by this law, there must be calculations and assumptions due to the last 10 years.../incomprehensible/... our coefficient on how much damage it has been per year and that there is some financial framework, not that in the state budget as you have listed is financed from the state budget, from the EU funds damage and from donations. However, when we see that in the state budget of 20 million kuna, then it is not that we have this financial framework where the units of local self-government and regional and county, and mainly legal and natural persons, whether farmers or any other economic operators or natural persons such as in the case of fires in 2017, when there were great fires as a natural disaster, where even today people are not paid, their damage to family homes. I repeated that on several occasions when you were here, there should be a wide platform here, you said by this bill that you knew who would be reported for damage, that there would be where damage has been reported so far, that there would be a Registry, that there would be a commission and that we had a certain jurisdiction. However, all without a financial framework within the budget and forecasting is a problem because there is a verse and people are paid 5% eventually. I think all the damages that have been done.../incomprehensible/... of the elemental natural disasters, or 5% of the damage. Why should all ministries be involved? All ministries should be involved. Most ministries, mostly the Ministry of Agriculture. This is where we name the drought, I'll mention the Sinj field. Of course there'll be drought in the Sinj field when we don't have a irrigation system, we have a drain system. and, of course, it's unnatural to have in Sinj, in Sinjsko polje to have drought but to have irrigation, in 2018 which have been promised for years where we have been in the middle of the Cetina River, where we have fertile soil, where we have 6000 ha of agricultural land, simply close to Split, the proximity of the sea would be suitable for farming, and this is how great the risks of our farmers are to happen in elementary disasters and so it's unimaginable to say in the Sinj field we have drought. And yet I will repeat, more source of Cetina, the Cetina itself will not speak the river's tributary, throw out water in one hour than yearly all springs in Israel, and Israel drowns, they conquer the desert, and we in the oasis of peace di pure clear river, so that's where the Ministry of Agriculture should be involved. We go to the Ministry of Regional Development, of course it's not the same as maintaining the infrastructure after, that they're not the same from the elemental disaster in Dalmatian Zagora, in Lica, in Zagorje and mountain-mounted areas, but somewhere there are smaller cities on a smaller surface where there's a better infrastructure, where they have larger financial capacity, of course it's easier to maintain and that they have much smaller costs. Just citing the example of the Gorski Kotar which is... The natural disasters last year when that huge snow was caused by huge damage to the infrastructure, the roads were a hole in the hole, destroyed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There needs huge money, I was after up there, they were numerous up there while it was snowing and it was good to help when the snow was snowing, but we need these local self-governments to categorize on this issue rather than the way it was made that we passed the Law on the mountainous area without knowing the framework of the area i.e. The number of units of local self-government, and we now see in the proposal for a law that is in the public debate, is no longer 45 units of local self-government in the mountainous mountainous area but has expanded to 87 units of local self-government, which is 100% higher and the financial resources have increased by only 10 million kunas from 30 or 35 to 45, and mainly where it has increased by some 20, 30% and essentially by 100% to increase the coverage of these units. So mountain-mounted areas of Knin, Drniš, Gorski Kotar, Lika, these are municipalities that have no financial capacity, a small number of inhabitants, the infrastructure is widespread, mostly local roads, who will maintain it, who will pay them afterwards? So it's a much more serious story than this PR law. Everyone here needs to be involved. The Ministry of Regional Development must be involved with the Ministry of Agriculture and not just one item placed and the item says this, in the budget of 20 million kuna for the consequences of natural disasters, 20 million kuna. So this is one municipality in Slavonia that has smaller farmers, the slaughter has several 10-hectares, these are damages on those surfaces. So here you need a broad inside the government, so within the resorient cooperation to prevent the damage first of all, I cited it as an example of irrigation, I said, for example, where I came from the Sinj field and so on in other areas because it's unimaginable, here I repeat again, all governments have promised since the Republic of Croatia. The drain system was built in the '50s, and we don't have a irrigation system. And of course that's where we expect the drought. Of course the farmer won't produce it, of course the farmer will have to move out of it, he has nothing to live on. So we're going to spend more money and they're not going to be paid by a farmer because there's not enough money to secure their crops, there's no conditions, there's no book of order, there's no land, there's no land, so that's one complex and big problem and this law is essentially, this bill of law, you've only found that there's going to be a register, the authority of the body, and so far there's a commission, and there's a commission and county and municipal and according to the county, cities and municipalities would have asked to declare the elemental disasters, but the damages are here, I don't know, there't know, there's a lot of local leaders and people around town councils, let them say how much damage is paid after the elemental disaster, they're worth up to 10%, they're mostly indicative of 5%. And mostly poorer municipalities, I repeat, are even weaker capacities. I repeat, they're weaker. They just can't stand it. ... written from EU funds that will be financed in one piece, however, it is all under question, and we and today must talk when we talk about European funds in general that the projected RH was 10.5 billion kuna, that we have withdrawn 900 million so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's let the stories go every year or we'll make a deal as much as we've pulled out. Not even 10%. And we paid $5.5 billion from 2014 to 2020, so final. Eura, I'm sorry. So this law is the PR that will serve the government well to praise how it did and this law, here there is no meaning of this financial envelope that is realistically made in the context of some calculation and that the Ministry of Finance had here to present to us parliamentary representatives, in an explanation, of course how much damage is expected annually in Slavonia on agricultural crops. We don't have it and I'm sure, only in Slavonia, it's at least 10 times, but this estimated budget of 20 million, she knows how much average fire we expect in the last 10 years, the calculation in the year, we don't have certain coefficients, certain possibilities and inter-resorial cooperation, which would have made it too much to avoid the fire in the woods, means how much the ministry's investment takes place, like this just here on a flat-rate basis, it happens like when there was a fire in Split or when there was a flood in Slavonia when the rash broke, so there was a verse, people self-organized all over Croatia, that big heart then worked out throughout Croatia they got there, but it was a song that wasn't a system organized. And once again, I'd like to ask you to resolve the damages that have taken place. the fire to pay people for their family homes, which you haven't solved yet. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125409	The first line has Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125410	I thank the esteemed Vice President, so you have well noticed that only 20 million kunas are intended for this purpose, which is too little, especially if we see that the government recently spent 65 million kunas to get a cell phone. I think the phones are far less important than the damage to the elemental accidents. But we also have to say that it's not the state's fault that the elemental disasters are happening, but it's guilty of destroying the fighting defense system, it's because it doesn't maintain a channel network and leaks, and there's a flood, and it's just that it's often the damage that's far greater than it's supposed to be. We are now free to introduce new categories of damage when with these 20 million kunas we can't do a single crumb of damage that comes to cover and compensate for those who are damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125411	Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125412	I agree that it's too small a sum, and here we'll agree that all the MPs here, either from the majority or from the minority, that these are minor amounts, and of course there's still damage, here are the damages listed here in the law, there are 12, i.e. 12. There are natural disasters listed, I have noted on behalf of the club that one very important consequence of the damage of natural beings, pollution, pollution of the spring of the Adriatic where the entire Splitian swimming pool cannot, does not use water. And these are huge damages to local self-government because they have to organize that people have drinking water. Citizens have to buy water in stores that are 10 times, 100 times more expensive than what's in the public water supply. So we have this damage that becomes, but here we need to include everything to do their job and there you're right. From those who hold the canals to those who are in charge of watering the fields, not to be in the middle of the summer Drought in Sinjski [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a field where a clear river of Cetina passes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125413	Thank you. The next line has Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, sir, for showing your basic lack of knowledge of the method of payment of damage. You were talking about some of the charges 100%, some of them nothing, and then you're talking about the fire of Split, and then Cetina, so it's not exactly that. The method of disbursement is such that all those who had valid requirements regarding the Split fire have charged for the same. Then again you say you charge 5%, there's a methodology. Did you really think that any country in this world is paying off all the damage to all the elemental accidents from the state budget and you really think that the sources of Cetina and irrigation and I don't know what you were saying to melioration should be the subject of this law that we're talking about today? I don't think so. That law is a good framework for granting damage, and you're talking about piar, it's you, you're talking to yourself about piar. Agriculture, agricultural production has no reason to ensure that it is derived from this part [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125415	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125416	Well, obviously you know everything and that you're going to give all the solutions in this country as boredom, well, is your results visible, so we don't have any agriculture at all in the Republic that's at the bottom because of the policies that you know how to implement. All we have is import agricultural policy, import lobbys that you're air-protected, and on the subject of pig farming, I don't see that there's any reason to talk about the elemental drought because it's the subject of the law. The subject of this proposal is drought, read if you have read or read what the Ministry of this Law has proposed, and you will see that the drought is mentioned, and will be confirmed by people who come from the Cetina region, the Dalmatian Burn that it is a shame that we do not have the irrigation of the Sinj field in 2019. It doesn't matter who's in power, but as a know-it-all, you know-it-all know-it-all know-it-alls who solve everything in the European spirit that you've brought the farm to the bottom. It's worse than World War II. And there's nothing more I can do than congratulate you on. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You have succeeded in your intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125417	Thank you very much. The students and students of the Faust Vrančić Engineering School, from Zagreb, are with us to welcome them from applause, please... Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] We are now moving forward with the agenda point, I remind you, the final proposal of the laws on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, it is up to Mr. Josip Djakić, who will have an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State with an associate, here we have the Final Proposal for the Law on the Facilitation and Elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, which is in the second reading, and this law is partly the result of natural disasters that should be addressed in a much better way than it has ever been. So this law has changed and defined a lot, so that it is functional and efficient in removing and mobilising and repairing damages that occur from the elementary disasters in the Republic of Croatia. Natural disasters have been a consequence for several years, and these are fires, floods, slides, beatings and other weather disasters that cause huge damage to the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and endanger agricultural production and economic stability of affected areas. One of the objectives of this law is to achieve a more efficient record of all damages caused by natural disasters, which would be carried out in one place, through an applicative solution to the register... of natural disasters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The damages are very rarely brought to the full, citizens who are damaged in natural disasters have been revolved in the amount paid, inability and stabilisation of the business of the damages, ineffectiveness of the existing system of aid due to the extremely small funds being granted as aid, fostering the need to raise awareness of the importance of the insurance of agricultural crops, property and everything else that has been defined by the Agriculture Act that the Ministry of Agriculture, encourages and subsidises the insurance of agricultural crops as well as everything else in sufficient amount and I think that compulsory insurance should actually be related to the incentive, which I have talked about many times on the commission. Because the incentives are in vain, unless the crops are secured, the incentives are groundless and all the burden arises and is put on the damage assessment committee, and then on the state budget, which has never been enough in these years, to settle everything that has happened. The insurance policies that have been subsidized by the Ministry of Agriculture are certainly the best way to resolve the full damage, but also this definition, through this law, speaks clearly about it. We talked several times about what they were bringing, say, floods and which is why in most cases they were due to too many rainfalls, the storms that are happening, more and more often and more floods in our areas. We'll see what happens in the spring when the snow from the Alps melts, when the water goes down, how we stop it. In my discussions and in my first reading, as well as in some other discussions, I talked about why and what caused the resulting flood bond. Floods as such have been caused by over-dwelling, but the capacity of our rivers and the absorption of our rivers has been significantly reduced. The flow of them and the build-up of material, gravel, sand, wood and other objects is enormous in our rivers. Not by cleaning up the last 10 years of our rivers, by halved capacity, and I said one picturesque phenomenon or example, that we can't build the dikes twice as wide and twice as big because the river's crust will come to the top of the embankment, and that's the logic that we need to know, we need to remove, that the river's cleaning has a multi-practical factor on the RS budget, that the state will not commit to anything to invest, but to collect from the material taken out, and the damage can also be covered by the work that's happening on our rivers. Rivers are potential and should be really honest about them and regulated legally. Although we have changed the Law, although it speaks of the Law that the exploitation of mineral raw materials in our rivers may occur, it is not yet in place. The Waterway Agency or the Waterway Agency have finally failed their task, missed their function, did nothing, so Luka in Osijek is actually young and is not cleaning, so the ships there hardly agree. In fact, the waterways don't exist any more, they're all consequences, and the floods I'm talking about and the flood damage, here, you can really imagine what's going on. No one in this matter is mature and serious about listening and removing. In order to minimise the cost of the budget, it is necessary to apply a clear goal, which is that the waterways are cleaned, that the capacity of our rivers which are laid down up to 2m with the material, except in the Zagreb area where all the material is extracted and is actually a meter deeper, only in this area, and all other areas of both Sava and Drava and Danube and Une are actually loaded full max. Here, this is what I notice is not good in the Republic of Croatia, and it causes damage, and it may be a benefit for the budget because if we count that we have imported material for the entire corridor of PC through the past time from the Republic of BiH i.e. from Republika Srpska and paid him as an import material, he's actually ours. He's ours, out of our Sava material, out of our Una and sold to us to build a road. We really feel like we're on another planet and we don't know how to use our laws, while the Hungarians are pulling out the gravel, while the Serbs are pulling the gravel out of the Danube, we've banned it. Forbidden and I have opposed many times, the law has been laid down that can be done, but legal acts have never yet come to life. It is noted that this Law is very recited in the matter of compensation for damages. Article 4 is amended as follows: These principles require taking into account the extent of the damages suffered, the impact of natural disasters on population suffering, the threat of life and human health, the impediment to the smooth functioning of the economy. In this respect, a natural disaster may only be declared subject to the prescribed Article. 4. this Act, and aid for the mitigation and partial removal of the consequences of natural disasters, shall not be granted for damages to the property which is secured. The damage to property directly or from extreme negligence, indirect damage, caused by unlawfully constructed buildings of public purpose, economic buildings and residential buildings, damage to the facility or area declared to be cultural goods, damages are not included in the register. Here, that's what's recited in the law maybe and we should talk more about it. In the case of non-securitised insurance risks, the value of property damage is less than 60% of the value of the asset. Furthermore, this Law also prescribes deadlines in which a number of actions are to be carried out. The deadlines have run since the day of the declaration of natural disasters. However, it should be noted that deadlines for the handling of the competent authorities following confirmation of the final assessment of the damage are not prescribed. When we talk about direct means of easing and partially removing the consequences of natural disasters, then this law provides for funding from the state budget, EU funds and donations. I would put a percentage there in the future of the exploitation of mineral raw materials from our rivers, to be used to repair flood damage. That would be good, and I think that would be appropriate, because we hope that this activity will start on our rivers, which is necessity and obligation. The order of the Member States shall be unclear. 22, which provides for the application of State aid rules when granting aid for mitigation and partial removal of the consequences of natural disasters to entrepreneurs. Let's remind you, Art. 107. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU in Article 1 determines that any aid granted by a Member State or granted through State resources in any form which is being violated or threatens to disrupt the market [[Intruder: Thank you]] and design. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125420	Thanks, time, time's up. We have seven replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague, Babic, and after him, his colleague, Strick. Here's your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125421	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You tell your colleague Djakić that this law is functional and quality, but I would also like to add that he is transparent, updated, and should be here for our public to say only two things. Therefore, the applicable law, the Law on the Protection of Essential Accidents, was paid in a way that, by a decision of the Government or by a decision of the Parliament and on the proposal of the Commission itself, meant funds from the Treasury which would then be transferred to municipalities and cities and then to end-users. And you've actually said at the very end and I'm going to make it even more intense and underline that this law that has a regulation on registration will directly allow the end-user to report damage and get funds from the state budget and you've stressed and I'm undermining more, but also from the EU which is very important because of those whose damage is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125422	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125423	Thank you very much. counterpart Babić, yes, this law is good but what I said and I did not finish, in paragraph 2 of the same article, it is said that, among other things, support for the removal of damage caused by natural disasters or extraordinary events are compatible with the internal market. Therefore, they do not constitute a distortion of competition by placing certain entrepreneurs or the production of certain goods in a more favourable position. So they can't be treated as state support. I believe that this law will be much easier defined and resolved, but here, I appeal also this way that the really necessary and necessary insurance for our farmers will be as large as possible, that they will be stimulated and supported by the Ministry of Agriculture and that we will do the best we can and that we will clean up our rivers as soon as possible to have greater absorption potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125424	Thank you. The next replica, counterpart Strick, followed by counterpart Zekanovic. Here you go, fellow Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125425	Thank you, Vice President. So, colleague Djakic, you have given in your really constructive discussion a series of examples of how it is possible to prevent and prevent damage from natural disasters. In fact, here it is thought that when it comes to elemental disasters or damage caused by natural disasters, it is not possible in advance to call it preventive action. This particular example of you by cleaning the riverbeds is a good example in which ways it is possible to mitigate flood damage. This is how we protect the population, the economy and the agricultural area by just cleaning the troughs in one way filling the state budget. And so far, its budget is full of Hungarians and BiH states.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125426	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125427	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Stričak, yes, this is not the only example of how it can be removed or helped, of course and irrigation that all counties should project, plan, start working together with the Ministry of Agriculture would be to remove the effects of droughts, irrigation that is, I don't know, maybe a few small percentages, actually not enough. The future of agriculture cannot be based on the expectation of good weather, timely rain, etc. Irrigation is what should be the future and the counties should all resort to making as many projects realize irrigation in order to have as good a culture as possible, as much contribution and as much revenue as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125428	Thank you. Next is counterpart Zekanovic, followed by counterpart Lenart. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125429	Dear counterpart Djakic, you mention the maintenance of the water supply, of course, we are all for the maintenance of the water supply, but here I must warn you of two things. So close to the water stream are very often many illegal residential buildings that are miraculously legalized and today the state of Croatia spends millions of kunas to mean individual buildings, meaning no settlements, save from floods instead of actually not being legalized or that these people simply move to another location that I find inadmissible and insane. And on the other hand, when we talk about the maintenance of the water supply, we don't worry about nature protection, we often actually get water streams or long-term, and it's self-inflicted by not building up the coast and the cuts are actually collapsing because the vegetation stopped, and you know it best, and it's being kept on the coast means fixed when the vegetation is destroyed, the water streams are being destroyed, and it's often in companies that keep the water streams exactly in the interest and it's called crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125430	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125431	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Zekanovic, you're right, there's everything in this business when you look at the current course when you sail on a boat or anything, you see flora and fauna are different and our nature guards are rigorous. They preserve both birds and animals and plant and animal worlds, bans on everything so that no activity can actually happen. And in the least form of natural protection they find a way to ban something. Economic activity must not be affected by the protection of birds. The same one when the flood occurred, he didn't take the boat and move the nest. He hasn't established the coast. He didn't come to set up some kind of a turn when beavers picked up the dam and cleaned it out of them. This is not happening, but we have a critical view and remarks to always find a way to ban economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125432	Thank you. Next is counterpart Lenart, followed by counterpart Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125433	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, fellow Djakic, you said about quote, we passed laws that we couldn't exploit raw materials from the river, we are this, I don't know who you mean, you from HDZ or all of us who couldn't participate in it. You're as aware as I know that some today illegally exploit both the Drava and the Sava and that it exists, but apparently some people can do it, are politically similar to having a backdrop, and others can't. And I think that by not allowing the use of construction, the extraction of construction material from the river, we're essentially doing a big problem, and that's where I agree with you. However, you are in a position to change these laws now if you couldn't before, but at the moment we joined the EU and we took over some obligations, such as Natura 2000 simply hands tied. That's when we should've thought about it. It's a little late for that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125434	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125435	Thank you very much. And a colleague.../incomprehensible/... that we have and the ban we have made that is forbidden, I have been appalled by it and criticalally referencing myself to it, and all the time I'm blunting by it, I'm going to say exactly when it's been passed and what it is, but it's also passed a change of law when it was Minister Jakovina, but the sublegal acts have never been passed. And today, the same is true for me on every damage committee, I'm talking about floods and floods, and once again I'm going to explain why the riverbed is growing to a level and why the buildings are dipping twice as big as they need to, so that doesn't make any sense. The trough must be clean, then the absorption is higher and then the water level that comes from Austria from the Alps and from everywhere else can be maintained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125436	Thank you, next is counterpart Vlaovic, followed by counterpart Križanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125437	Thank you, Vice President, I am pleased that you mentioned that it is unacceptable for Croatia not to take gravel and sand out of the river, that this is also economically harmful and that we can certainly justify it in front of the European Council and the Commission and that there are models of how to do it anyway, because of our economy, building infrastructure, and also because of those craftsmen who have bought machines have equipment, hired their family, could at least be allowed at a few micro locations for these people who have equipment and who have hired their families to deal with the extraction of gravel and sand. And it is inadmissible that there is still no solution to the saddle barrier at Kadar under Slavonski Brod and that during the summer, Sava was standing in low water, and three, two, three, three million kunas, it is simply the country's concern for Slavonia, which is why people are moving out. Your water in the summer months is so low that you can run over in your shoes with steaks and go to your neighbor's for coffee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125438	Thank you. Here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125439	Thank you, dear colleague, that you are right, not to worry, the Waterway Agency or the Waterway Agency said I did not do my job, she once had 70 employees, their projects and plans would say 0 points. There are possibilities, neither Natura 2000 nor anyone and then there are exceptions by which.../incomprehensible/... the park of nature takes out stone. And there are solutions, for all there are solutions, and there can be, but when someone's insinuating that they can't, so they all refer to the greens as they say, so they call for these, but that's generally not true, there are exceptions in which a clear decision is made that this is the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia and there's the end of the story. That's what the solutions say, if there's an economic interest in nature park, so why isn't it in the Drava River, on the Sava River, on the Union, on the Danube Why isn't there an economic interest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125440	Thank you. The next replica of his colleague Križanić, followed by his colleague, Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125441	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague Djakic about the problem of cleaning up the riverbed from the application of gravel and sand we have often talked about and we know that it is a potential cause of elemental disasters, floods. And on this topic we also convened the thematic session of the Committee on Agriculture and I am interested in whether you think that Croatian waters but also the Ministry of Environmental Protection should participate later in the recovery of the damage precisely because of this problem that you have mentioned. I also want to know what you think about it, not only, we know that the sand that we're taking out of the river, which is now being taken out of the river can be used to resuscitate the coast and rabbit dikes, but I'm curious whether you think it is, and so far it's not so that we can use that sand in resuscitating the damage from the elementary disasters in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125442	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125443	Thank you very much, so fellow Križanić it is clear that over the past 10 years, the ban on the exploitation of mineral raw materials has been around 5 billion kunas of tied gravel, sand and stone in the Republic of Croatia, which is legally, illegally and embedded in our roads, in our highways, in our.../incomprehensible/... channels, rivers, etc., so that's the money that was supposed to be on the expense commission, 5 billion kuna, you know what it is, so 100% of any damage could have been paid. We missed it, we gave it to Bosnia, to Serbia, to Hungary, from all of whom we imported. We gave the money, that's the thing and I don't understand it, I really don't understand how someone can dare to do such damage to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125444	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125445	Dear Representative Djakic, you said a lot about the consequences of the natural disasters for the village and peasants, but I think that the greatest danger for our farmer is not from natural disasters, but from the politics of one party, or rather the parties who ruled Croatia, which led the policy of the overrated exchange rate and the large, large press taxes that resulted literally in the disappearance and destruction of the Croatian villages that we all witnessed. And because of that, or because of the fact that import food is cheaper than domestic food, we actually have a breakdown of agriculture and a problem of mass eviction from rural areas. Thank you. Dear Representative Djakic, you said a lot about the consequences of the natural disasters for the village and peasants, but I think that the greatest danger for our farmer is not from natural disasters, but from the politics of one party, or rather the parties who ruled Croatia, which led the policy of the overrated exchange rate and the large, large press taxes that resulted literally in the disappearance and destruction of the Croatian villages that we all witnessed. And because of that, or because of the fact that import food is cheaper than domestic food, we actually have a breakdown of agriculture and a problem of mass eviction from rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125447	Thank you. You're done with the replicas. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Damir Felak, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125448	The Honorable Presidential Croatian Parliament, Mr. State Secretary with an associate, esteemed colleague and colleagues before us is the final proposal of the Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. We've heard a lot of reasons why this law is being passed, I think everything that's said in favor of this law is fine and I welcome the law, it has to regulate some things and certainly carries certain improvements. The part that we all disagree with, the part that we disagree with individually and by clubs, is how many states should participate in all this. I would like to point out once again, from the very title of the law which speaks about the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, but in the very text of the reasoning of the law and in the law itself, it is about partially removing the consequences of disasters. There is also one item in the argument itself that everyone forgets, and says this law does not represent any damage to the automatic use of it, but this is a regulation that provides a certain type of assistance that can also be humanitarian in certain segments and does not have its source in such a way as to directly enable anyone to use a certain right. In the case of damages in proportions exceeding the possibility of partial recovery within the framework of this law, the funds shall be provided on the basis of other legal rules. So this isn't the only regulation based on which people can be helped in the event of natural disasters. This law itself has good sides, which I will repeat here, it is certainly the formation of a register of damage, where in one place all damages are then united, and it also accurately determines how the damages are assessed, who should do it, in which way and in what order. And so far, we've had all of this in the Law on elemental disasters, which is being abolished by the adoption of this law, but I think it's better worked out here. As a member of the State Commission for the Elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, i.e. until now natural disasters, it is certain that we have all met with impossible situations and so many times mentioned in this amount of 20 million kuna that was foreseen in the state budget, and let's say in 2017, the elemental disasters seem to have exceeded me, the damage assessment exceeded 4 billion kuna. And then it's clear to everyone that it's impossible to calm down and compensate people for the damage, by this law or by those means, even though I have to commend the government for finding an additional 80 million kuna in that year, and in the end 100 million kuna was allocated to remove the consequences of natural disasters. What is good in this law and what guides us to this law is that it is necessary to go to the maximum level to build people's awareness that everyone who deals and agriculture, but also who has any property, that these assets must be provided and that they have already said there are some representatives of clubs that there is a possibility of helping means that in the insurance itself and the units of local self-government and from EU funds, and people themselves simply have to understand if they are largely engaged in agriculture, that they should provide their crops, or their future products, because they simply expect that the state will settle the damage at an absolute amount or at least a greater amount simply isn't real, and it doesn't happen as someone said, anywhere in the world. Whether this amount can be slightly larger, perhaps it can, and we saw when these damages were great, that the state had found an additional 400% more funding and I believe that in the future it will be about that, but I should be working on this insurance and I would agree with Mr. Vlaovic who said that now the insurance houses have started to use and raise these premiums, I think it is also too high because they see that they are helping, they have started to include meanings and other factors, not just natural and legal persons who are dealing with agriculture and suddenly these premiums have become much larger. I think that, with certain efforts from the resolution ministries, something could be done to make these premiums real and to make as many people as possible, to ensure that more people have their property. I'm not talking about real estate, I don't think anyone who really wants to protect their property would have to find the means to secure them. Also, this law gives us opportunities and tells us that it does not, that there will be no damage to illegal objects, but it has given us opportunities in which cases it is possible and that I agree with this amendment and Mr Križanić, who said that it is necessary to specify exactly what social cases, social situations should compensate for damages and people who have not legally legalised or legalized their facilities, and the possible damage happens to them. One way to reduce the need for funds to settle the damage is safe and prevention and a lot of talk about it here Mr. Djakic about the flood and about it, I wouldn't repeat it, but I think we can name it as a very good example of prevention of last year's fire season where by the very end of summer there was no more serious fire, then there were two, three more serious fires, but it was still less than in the years before, and I hope that in this way things with the fires will continue to happen in the next period, in the coming years, and there is exactly one of the main reasons for prevention, much stronger surveillance of forests, forest land, where mostly these great fires occur, meaning on our Mediterranean coast, where they are much more dry, and there can be, today there are also a lot of modern means to observe and real time, the camera type will be achieved. Clearly, you must never forget that factor factor factor factor and the construction of fire roads, enough means to beg the forest, to clean the forest, and in that part for sure that we can prevent a lot of damage. But some of the damage, unfortunately, we can't influence, here, these days we've been hit by snow, there will certainly be some damage, damage and snow, these are some things that we can hardly influence, but there are these things that cause great damage that we can safely be affected by prevention. And in the end, I'd like to say some purely concrete remarks and think about what should be fixed in the law, in Art. Article 31(1) refers to the deadlines set out in Article 1(1). 28th century 4, I think you should add St. 5 because it concerns the City of Zagreb. It's the same. In 43rd, by the end of January, Mr Križanić gave the amendment to this by the end of February, so that is the deadline within which all units of local and regional self-government should adopt their plans. Otherwise, in the Law itself, that deadline is November 30th, but extremely for this year, since the Law was not passed in the past, it was supposed to be January 31st, we realize that this is impossible because the Law has not yet been passed, and I think that this deadline is too short by the end of February, so my proposal is either to extend it to March 31st or to move it completely out of the law because the Law itself speaks in Article. 17th and 18th that units of local self-government are obliged to bring their management plans by November 30th for next year. If we haven't arrived for this year, then the question is whether it should be brought by the end of March because believe me, there won't be any municipalities, cities and counties to bring it to the end of February or leave this year to be what it is, and then until 30. 11. bring management plans for next year. Here, so much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125449	Thank you. On your show we have 3 replicas, a colleague of Babić, a colleague of Lončar and a colleague of Križanić. The first one's a colleague, Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125450	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Felak, you said this isn't the only law that provides damage, it's true, and the law regarding protection against elementary disasters and the Protection and Rescue Act. However, some parts of the Law regarding elementary disasters have been abolished, and they are actually attached to this new Law. So, our esteemed MPs in the opposition today have shown a skepticism under this Law saying in fact only about the amount of funds that has been secured. However, the state is not a stepmother to its own people and, of course, at times when an elemental accident occurs, it can either increase this amount by sitting in the government or by decision of the HS, if necessary for that elemental accident or damage that might arise. I remember, for example, the damage they were in the Imot area because of the long-term colds, the problem was worth it. So the state paid off, but it took a long time and it wasn't really effective for farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125451	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125452	I thank my colleague Babic for this replica. I'm about to start from this last thing you said, exactly that, it's true, this law allows, should allow that payment to be in a much shorter time and much simpler than it's ever been before. So far, the decision has to be made, so the funds from the Treasury are transferred to local self-government units, so they've been forwarding further damages, now it would go a simplified way, and I think this law will make it possible and I don't think there's any reason to be skeptical, this law is good at what it can do. I was saying that in 2017, with 20 million kuna, the government raised that amount to 100 million kuna, I'm sure if God doesn't give you a big natural disaster, you'll find funds in the state budget to make people as much damage as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125453	Thank you. Next replica, fellow Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125454	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Felak, Art. 3. The proposed Law, I agree with you what you said when it comes to this Law, when it comes to technical implementation. However, in Art. 3. in the case of natural disasters, in section 2. describes everything relating to the elemental disasters. But there's one thing I haven't noticed, and it's an accident like a leech. We all know how it works, how closely it works and how much damage it can do, so I ask you, do you think the leech should be in the description of Art. 2. Three? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125455	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125456	Thanks to my colleague Lonchar, the leech, the question should, however, be referred to whether it should have been mentioned individually in this article, this question should, however, be answered by the Secretary of State, but we have a point in this article. 12., other phenomena of such scales that, depending on local circumstances, cause significant disturbances in the lives of people in a particular area. I think that the leech, as well as the golden jaundice of the vine, which is mentioned, and also some other intruders mentioned in the first reading of the Law, if I'm not mistaken, are intruders who attack palm trees, and so can all of these appear under this wheel. 12. and that there is no reason for both leeches as a kind of elemental accident if it causes damage, and it locally causes damage, and then pays for it too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125457	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Felak, a good thing such as crop branches and agricultural production that we now use from the scale of rural development of the EU and we are all propagating it, must not certainly be an opportunity to hunt in cloudy certain insurance companies and agree here and with Mr. Vlaović and with you that we must all make an appeal together and publicly act that these subsidies, and policies must in no way be more expensive, and subsidized shelves, but, in fact, because of serious and good work, such policies must be cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125459	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125460	I thank my colleague Križanić, I am pleased that you agree with me that this should be so, we heard from the presentation of some MPs that unfortunately this is not the case on the ground. I can't speak of having no personal experience with it, but I think that my competent ministry, here before I think of the Ministry of Agriculture, should have taken care of it and helped farmers to make such policies, whether in a way that they are united for certain units of local self-government or regional self-government, or in some other way, mainly that, according to insurance houses, they may occur in some common, together several agricultural producers or associations. I think with the help of the ministry, it would then be possible for the premiums of such insurance to be reduced and acceptable to all users.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125461	And the last individual debate, Comrade Pernar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125462	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the biggest problem of Croatian villages, unfortunately, is not the elemental disaster and the way the state applies to them, because these natural disasters are out of human capacity, so people can't affect whether a fight is going to fall or not. However, there are things that can affect the country and peasants and that are the result of human activity. In fact, if the state is leading a monetary policy that is such that our currency is stronger than it should be, or that our products are more expensive than imports, it is clear perfectly from the plane that there will be a flood or better said flooding of the domestic food market, food from imports. And that's what happened in Croatia, you can all see, this problem has nothing to do with elementary disasters, it has a problem with the monetary policy of the Croatian National Bank. You all know this, however, in this system not only did we swear that the course is what it is, but we ran a monetary policy with huge tax incentives and contributions that the peasants simply could not follow and were eventually peasants and failed. What I'm saying isn't my guess, it's not my guess, it's a naked fact, the village's ruined, the peasants are in the country getting less and less. Look at the number of a farm with musk cows, see what happens to the stock fund, see what happens to a series of cultures. I remember when we were entering the EU they told us as if don't worry, everything would be great, like wineries, like wineries no problem like you're the only one doing yours will be all right. And how will all be well, ladies and gentlemen? You know what happened to winemakers after entering the EU, the production of wine in Croatia fell as much as 40% so almost in half there was a decline in production. And why is that? I'll explain that, too. Under the conditions of an unrealistic rate where import products are cheaper than domestic products, it is possible to protect domestic production in only one way, and these are customs duties. Customs have a protective role for domestic production, however, by entering the EU with customs duties, the customs system has been abolished and suddenly all goods and all EU food can enter Croatia without customs duties. When you connect these two key details, it means a missed exchange rate policy and the absence of customs duties is clear from a plane that will result in our agriculture. Unfortunately, the Croatian state does not care about the peasants and the result of this carelessness is the current state, the result and does not worry about the agony in which the peasants live. And you're aware of that. I don't blame any individual here, I don't even blame any party, I blame the system of government imposed on the outside. The monetary policy imposed on the outside, the customs policy imposed on the outside, that's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. How long are we in Croatia going to run a policy that is contrary to our interests? It's a question for everyone here, absolutely everyone. And we can close our eyes, we can deal with whether photos are with a minister where allegedly prostitute and cocaine, whether they're photo montage or not, one says it's a photo montage, other people say it's not a photo montage. However, whether it is a key issue for the Croatian village, unfortunately it is not. And they're constantly serving people all kinds of affairs, which are kind of scandals of different types, but the key problem, which is the role of the central bank, the fact that it's a currency exchanger, the fact that import food is made artificially cheaper, the fact that there's no customs, it's all ignored. There's no discussion about it in the media. The media doesn't discuss the type of wine production has fallen by almost half, if customs should be returned, there is no such debate. The media does not discuss it in a way to say if it is true that import food is cheaper than domestic because exchange rate policy is such that simply import food is cheaper. Whether or not the course policy should be changed, there is no debate about it. What the government's dealing with is actually a systematic one, I'd call it damage control. It's too bad. However, when a mistake is deeply embedded in the system, when it is clear that it is a system problem, rather than a group of farmers or a single region of farmers, means if it is clear that it is a broad problem, we as individuals no longer have a moral right to remain silent. And we have no moral right to support such a policy. I invite you as advocates to think for yourself and wonder, and you wonder if this policy continues, which will be the lasting consequences of its effects, or who will remain in the country, which will be produced in the country at all and whose food we will eat. This means, not only of someone else but of ourselves, because by losing control of food production or by transferring that process to foreign countries, we lose control of what we eat and when someone dies of import food poisoning, which is an old God knows how many, I would dare say even how many years, where state reserves or supplies of other countries instead of burning, say meat, are sent to Croatia and solvents and sold there for change, we will bear the consequences of that policy. So people's health is compromised. It's vital that the state does something about it. Unfortunately, this Sanitation Law does not go into this central issue at all, and it will not, of course, solve even the issue of natural disasters because it is the very continuation of this policy that takes place in itself, the elemental disaster and disaster. She's got a folk saying, she says, next to friends like this, we need enemies. And now I'm going to say, in addition to this monetary and customs policy, elemental disaster is the least of our problems. Elemental disaster is an occasional problem for a small group of peasants, and agricultural policy in the widest place is a problem for every farmer, for every man living in Croatia. And if nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, what if people leave? Who's going to be responsible for that? And once again I call on the state to stop prohibiting Indian hemp because it's the last thing that in the current conditions can get peasants out of bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125463	We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first one is a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125464	Dear colleague Pernar, you have touched a metric I often speak of in my own way. So, the sovereignty of our country, we are increasingly a sovereign state, or sovereignty we have transferred to the EU, and therefore there are no customs duties because 90% of the goods we import from the EU and regardless of what they produce cheaper than we are because of the reasons you have stated, we simply do not have the opportunity to develop our own production. So the key question is, when will the Croatian government, this or any future government be called sovereign? When will it finally bear in mind that it was chosen by the Croatian people, that it was delegated before this state and that the interests of this country should be protected? I still don't feel myself so much to the Europeans, first of all I feel like a resident of this country, a Croat, so I'd like our government and this one and those last and they're going to feel the way that, here it is, I guess you feel, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125465	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125466	Dear Representative Zekanovic. Thank you for your replica. You have indeed pointed to the central problem, that the country is managed from the outside. Unfortunately, as long as we have the political elite and voters who agree to such a programme of land management, we will also have these terrible consequences. I have had the opportunity to know you as a man and I can say that on the human side I deeply respect and believe in the sincerity of your intentions and call on all right voters, all right-wing bodies, for which we from the Living Wall are a party or not enough right, if they are reluctant to vote for, to support Mr. Zekanovic because he has shown a patriotic line on both the CNB and on mass migration and other issues concerning globalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125467	Next replica, fellow Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125468	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I would say that the elemental disaster in Croatia is demagogy. I can't say anything else about what an elemental accident is, and this is what this is about. If you're talking about winemakers, and I don't think Croatia has ever lived better than today, they're being exported to all of England and Australia and all of Europe, so go to the vineyards in Slavonia and see what they look like, never better. We can talk about agriculture, we can talk about failures, we can talk about 20 years of bad country management, I'd say the same thing, if we look at today, and this government that is ruling today, we have a surplus for the first time in the country after 25 years, actually after the release, and what does that mean? If we'd made more than spent, to take care of all the spent kunas even though we still haven't done the right thing, I mean, so far it's not... And this government, in my opinion, has done a lot for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125469	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125470	Mr. Misic you say that Croatian winemakers have never lived better. Here, I will read you the answer, which I received from Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture Tomislav Tolusic, namely, I asked him how many wines were produced in 2012 in Croatia, means last year before entering the EU and how many wines were produced then, last year 2017. This is the answer, in accordance with Article. 142. Bla, Bla, Bla, Bla, Bla, According to the State Statistics Office in 2012 wine production of 1,29 million hectolitres was recorded, while in 2017 production of 726 thousand hectolitres was recorded. So we have 526 thousand hectolitres of produced wine less. And I'm asking you, if the winemakers are great and good, which is why there's been such a drastic decline in production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125471	Time, thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125472	Thank you very much. You spoke about this law and the damages that will have to be charged, but you took a little off the topic and you went to what is happening in Croatia and Tolusic and everything else, I'm surprised you didn't mention the damage you caused, and you from 1.1 million kuna when you're in 2 parties, it's probably the subject of the investigation. Well, that's some kind of damage that happened, I hope you didn't think the damage should be done by the state, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125473	Replication response, here's a colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125474	Mr Djakić, I have made a mistake, I have made a mistake, and I confess my mistake here today, before you, before Mr Djakić, I have made a mistake, and I have made a mistake here today, before you, before the Croatian Parliament and before the whole people. But I ask, when will you recognize your mistakes and stop the policy you are implementing and what is the Croatian constitution? It's no shame to make a mistake. It's a shame to insist on mistakes. I'm not a perfect man, nor have I ever claimed that I am, but I appeal to you and your conscience, to put this issue, monetary and customs policies, above partying and over personal tension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125475	We have also concluded the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, second reading, P.Z. No. 428. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125476	Now, as planned, we will have a statement on the amendments, so first we will begin with a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on easing and removing the consequences of natural disasters, second reading, P.Z. No. 428, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Josip Križanić and the club of representatives of the HSS. I would ask the proposing's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, it will be the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, the respected Zdravko Zrinasic. First of all, the amendment to the 1st respected representative, Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125477	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125478	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 of the same applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125479	Yes, the amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125480	Thank you very much. Next is the amendment to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125481	The amendment is not accepted. It would only briefly remind itself that the amendment suggests that the prescribed amount of the maximum amount of cash aid cannot be greater than 10% instead of the prescribed 5%. I stress here that this law does not constitute the right of any injured party to use it automatically for the purpose of determining the pre-guaranteed right of compensation for natural or legal persons and, with the establishment of the register itself, it is essential to encourage the provision of property and the subsidisation of payment of the premium provided by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with other applicable rules and regulations, mainly in the agriculture sector, because such damages are the largest. It is precisely because of the increasing number of weather disasters and natural disasters that the proposed 10% are unrealistically prescribed in a situation where damages are rarely counted in billions of kunas and the state budget of local self-government units does not have these fiscal capacities, because in the past 6 years, the amount of damage paid or to natural harm was only 1.54%, and therefore, within this law, Article 7(4) left the possibility, the additional possibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on other different measures, programmes for partial consideration, the elimination of consequences, the damage to natural disasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125482	On behalf of the promoter of the HSS Club, the respected representative of Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125483	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I am not satisfied with the explanation and we are looking for a vote on this amendment. You said yourself, the damages are huge and whenever a elemental disaster is declared, on the ground between ministers and crossings and boasting that they are socially sensitive and that they will help our fellow citizens with the recovery of these damages. And then when the damage report comes, it's done by the State Commission, the field commissions, when they're delivered to lobby, the compensation to those citizens, it's 100 kn, 200 kn, just people are disappointed. And you, by this bill, where you say up to 5% in relation to the damage reported, are practically suggesting to the citizens, so don't even report it because in the state budget we've secured only 20 million kn and we can't pay you damages, but go to insurance and your property, by your production, and we know that insurance houses are incorrect to the users of these services, because often that fee is not paid or not in the scope of the policy. And just as citizens are damaged, they have not been able to compensate for the damage caused by natural disasters, we have seen that through that measure of 5.2.1. the recovery of production potential, which has suffered from elemental disasters, too, our fellow citizens have not withdrawn funds from the EU, because they are simply such conditions that they cannot achieve it, then at least through these laws, which are passed by the Croatian Parliament and proposed by the Government, we allow our fellow citizens to receive more adequate compensation for the damage caused or for which they are not themselves guilty, because there are often floods because, some other state institutions have not done the job or because we have not taken care of the quality of the ingredients in Croatian forests, but we are some unnatural indigenous varieties... By causing faster and better fire spread, because agricultural areas are abandoned, because agricultural production is not stimulated and our agricultural producers are ultimately damaged, and the fees are symbolic and in this way there will be no damage application, give them an opportunity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125484	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125485	Now we're going to vote. First, the Final Proposal of the Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, second reading, P.Z. No. 428, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure, on the amendment submitted, must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please take part in the vote. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, we have decided to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to ask the proposing representative to explain the submitted amendment, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125486	Thank you, well-respected Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submits this amendment to Article 31(1), which is amended and reads as follows: The application of the final assessment of the damage referred to in Article 28 of this Act, the municipal or city commission of the city of Zagreb shall bring the damage to the Register within the time limits set out in Articles 28(4) and 5 of this Act. As regards the reasons for the conduct of the damage assessment notified, this amendment complements the provision of Article 31(1) of the Law in order to comply with the provisions of Article 28 of the Law. In this respect, the provision of Article 31(1) is complemented in a way that, in addition to the invitation to Article 28(4) relating to the time limit for the operation of the municipal or city commission, adds a provision with a call and a paragraph 5 of the law relating to the time limit for the City Commission of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125487	Thank you. I'm opening a debate now on the government's amendment. If there are no interested, I'll conclude the debate and I'll put the amendments to the government to vote, please let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 98 for and 1 abstentions, have been accepted by the government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We now move to a decision on amendments submitted by MP Josip Križanić and the club of representatives of the HSS. The amendments have been made at the beginning of today's session, and we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So Križanić's amendments were accepted and the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSS was not accepted, so let's vote on it. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We will now move to a vote on the final proposal of the Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, please vote. I find that most votes, 109 votes and 2 votes against the Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125488	Dear MPs and MPs, as decided this morning, will now be held a united debate on the next 4 points, and the clubs will be entitled to 20 minutes for introduction. So: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Nature Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 559 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Introduction and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species and Governance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 560 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on cross-border traffic and trade in wild species, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 561 - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 511/2014 on harmonisation measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol on the access to genetic resources and fair and fair distribution of profits resulting from their use in the Union, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 562 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, the applicant's proposal was accepted for these legislative proposals to be discussed following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure, combines the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, Mr. Mario Šilek, please welcome Mr. Šilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Therefore, the draft Act amending the Act on the Protection of Nature, the Law amending the Law on the Prevention and Expansion of Foreign Species and Invasive Foreign Species and Management thereof, and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) No 511/2014 on the coordination measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol and in the finality of the Law amending the Law on Cross-border Transport and Trade of Wild Species have been joined in order to implement the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, institutions, institutes, foundations, commercial companies and other legal entities with public powers. The Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, which resigned on 1.1.2019, prescribed the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, and the termination of the Office on the Establishment of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, and the Agency's tasks were taken over by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. As all 4 of these draft laws define the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, these laws need to be amended, which will be taken over by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. In addition to the adoption of the State Inspectorate Act, which enters into force on 1.4 of this year, which provides that inspections from the Department of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Department of the Ministry of Agriculture will have to be carried out in the State Inspectorate, the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate for the implementation of inspection supervision under the abovementioned laws should be laid down. For the above reasons, it is proposed to adopt those laws by emergency procedure, and no additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is necessary for the implementation of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125490	Thank you. On your opening statement, we have five replicas. A colleague of Grmoje, Zekanovic, Dobrović, Vlaović and Podolnjak, is the first colleague of Grmoja, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125491	Thank you, Secretary of State. Together we participated in an anti-building initiative, i.e. the completion of the project Upper Horizons. I read the announcements, so, Luke Petrovic, the first man of Republika Srpska's electricity company to announce, means the completion of the construction of HE Dabar, announces that it will be on the 2022s network, that all these preparatory works have been completed, which the Croatian state, which you as the Ministry, as a man familiar with this problem, are taking on this issue. You're aware of how much water we've run out of to build this project, that we've run out of sources, so, that's how much we're drowning, so our country, and also that the flow in Neretva is getting smaller and smaller, that salt water gets through more and more, means, is it doing anything to the government of the Republic of Croatia? And the Ministry on this matter? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125492	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear MPs and MPs, the esteemed representative of Grmoja, therefore, as regards the specific issues of the Upper Horizons, the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection is involved in a measure in which it can be included in accordance with... The Convention, which is in the process of assessing environmental impacts for those plants that can potentially have a negative impact on the environment from another country. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the wider problem of saltiness of the Neretva valley, they may point out that in cooperation with the Water Economy and Sea Protection Administration, and Croatian waters, in preparation and in part already in the realization of a number of irrigation projects of the Neretva Valley, we have in particular accelerated activities in such a way that these projects, specific projects in the Neretva valley, can be financed from the competitiveness of cohesion but also from the new line. to prevent disasters. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125494	Thank you. He's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125495	I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, the secretary of state didn't answer what exactly the Government of the Republic of Croatia was doing on this matter? They announce construction, construction, the Croatian side does nothing and are still calling for them to insist with the Republic of Croatia to go to the construction of Dubrovnik 2 where all this water, which is being redirected by the project Upper Horizons to have a place to end and then the Croatian side would, of course, use it. Is that a deal at first? Is that some kind of plan? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Yes, it is. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Grumoja]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125496	So this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We continue with, don't abuse it anymore, please continue with the replica, colleague Zekoanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125497	Dear Secretary of State with an assistant, this is about shutting down or attaching the Environment and Nature Agency to the Ministry. For a reason there's the savings listed, right? So Prime Minister Plenkovic, or Prime Minister Plenkovic, said we would save it that way. Now I'm interested in the next one. According to the CITES Convention, objective opinions are needed on the subject, for example. the nature and impact of some procedures of nature, will when the Agency joins the Ministry, it be necessary to pay, someone on the side, an independent body, to give such opinions and where is the savings?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125498	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125499	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative, therefore, as regards the future action of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, which has ceased to operate, means that the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Environment and Energy will be an independent unit, an independent unit within the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection and will be clearly separated from the administrative tasks done by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, i.e. It will have its own structure, therefore, and will have the opportunity to continue to maintain or work on scientific projects, as well as on professional analytical activities. So nothing will change as far as professional services of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency are concerned. Therefore, the Regulation will ensure its independence in action, i.e. in this scientific and scientific professional type of work that it has done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125500	Next replica, colleague Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125501	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, please answer the question of whether this, in my opinion, will have a positive or negative impact on the fulfillment of the vision and mission of the Ministry, as it stands on the official pages, by abolishing the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. Let me remind you, the vision is Croatia's promoter and champion of sustainable development in the EU, and the mission to build an environmentally sustainable society based on resource efficiency and low carbon development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125502	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125503	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dobrović, as I said in the previous response, means, by a regulation that we have very soon and within a much shorter period than is prescribed by law, we will in any case ensure that the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency is independent, and the goals you speak of and vision, I think it is sufficient to argue that it is within the Ministry of Environment and Energy within these months, that one of the most important things that we are doing, just as well as the strategy of future development of the Republic of Croatia in energy terms of low carbon development, so that I do not believe that this rationalisation and this transformation of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency can in any way reflect negatively on the goals and visions that you mention in your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125504	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125505	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is true that the Government's decision to abolish 19 and the Agency has no savings. It is evidence that the finance minister by means of a technical rebalancing of a billion and 227 million kunas has redirected to the competent ministries and all people have been taken over. So, this was an ordinary farce as to say that something is being saved, that it is being coordinated and better managed, and by abolishing the Environment and Nature Protection Agency, we are moving away from the policies of the European members who generally have it as an independent body for a sustainable waste management system, so I ask the question, are you now opening up a space for the disposal of nuclear waste from Krškoga in Trgovina gora? We from HSS are against it and residents of Sisak-Moslavina County are against it and I don't think we should let nuclear waste store there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125506	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125507	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, meaning the distinguished parliamentary representative precisely in the specific case of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Energy has taken over all employees, means no employee of the former Croatian Environment and Nature Agency will be left unsettled, means everyone remains in the system, means that the business, the part-time business of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency has been justified, and means the new establishment within the ministry will also be doing their work, which they have done so far. As far as the issue of Trade Gore is concerned, it was not in any case part of the administrative process in which the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency has participated, so I do not see that correlation between the two facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125508	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation, colleague Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125509	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State has made a proposal for institutional change and the abolition of the Agency for Nature and the Environment, for changes in inspection control, but let me remind you, in the city of Varazdin, we have more than 10 years old inspection supervision and a warrant to remove more than 100,000 tonnes of embalmed waste in the wake of the threat to citizens' health and environmental protection. And for more than 10 years now, this crime towards the environment, according to citizens' health, is still there. What can you do in the ministry urgently and urgently on the basis of a warrant that has been issued for more than 10 years to remove this balated waste?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125510	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable parliamentary representative, of course, that the problem of embalmed waste in Varazdin is one of the problems that Minister current Coric met with and this ministry, what I can say is the following. If, during previous years, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has been in its financial plans, here are both during and during the previous Minister Dobrović and during his predecessor, providing certain funds for the problem to finally be resolved. However, in a particular case, it means more participants in the process, you know that for years the litigation of the problem has been burdened, the specific obligations and the city of Varazdin on this issue and the latest information that I have has been working so hard in this area, in this issue with the city of Varazdin, so it's specifically about the elaborate that this will be done in such an acceptable way to make the ministry As well as our services as the fund could have included in the final solution to this problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125512	Thank you. We're done with the replicas of your presentation, the board's representative here is gone and therefore I'm opening a debate, first by clubs, with one more mention that clubs have the right to 20 minutes. On behalf of the Club of Representatives MOST Independent Lists is a colleague of Slaven Dobrović. Here you go, buddy Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125513	Thank you very much, Vice-President, I warmly welcome the representatives of the ministry headed by the secretary of state, of course colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. So, before us are the urgent amendments to the 4 laws, which are initiated by the need to comply with another decision, the decision made in hot days, so last summer when the shooting list was defined, so the institution of the public agencies on behalf of the famous rationalisation, so it's as a reform of the state administration. I have, of course, found on that list several times and today, this relevant Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, which has been created by 2 institutions, from the State Nature Protection Office, which deals with nature and the bases for environmental management and the Environmental Protection Agency, which has been more involved in monitoring, thus reporting on environmental quality. Both the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency has worked for a while, but it was decided after a year or two that it is suitable to meet the goals of rationalising the state administration. It's a very unusual decision since there's a whole series of reasons why it shouldn't be like that. I've already talked about it and, of course, I'm not the only one, and I think that this is how one big damage is created and that eventually we're going to have to change that, and in fact we're all dealing with one administrative change now, and it's absolutely certain that it involves a lot of human capacities, so not just in the assembly, not just in the government where it's being prepared, but, of course, in the ministry itself that could have done something else. I will only briefly visit, so we have to distinguish professional affairs from administrative and therefore it is important to have separate institutions dealing with one or the other, and it was justified to keep it that way. Therefore, the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency deals with professional affairs is a particular professional service which therefore brings the documents on which these other bodies are based. And it's important to keep these jurisdictions separate. So there are responsibilities of people who deal with these professional parts of jobs, they sign it and there are responsibilities, which these professional bases use to manage and they have their responsibilities. Yes, so it's not just about the ministry, which used these professional bases, but about a whole series of other institutions. What is important to say is that the tasks that were within the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency are increasingly complex. So today we are seeing increasingly complex changes in the environment and in the nature and response of civilization, so, us, people, society, must be increasingly complex and therefore the scientific community is increasingly involved and therefore this agency is also relying more and more on the work of these scientific institutions, and if the views of the staff of such an agency, then you will see that there are very many masters of science, doctors of science, and almost all of them are of course high professional equipment, except the magistrates and the doctor of science. Therefore, it is indeed a professional job, which includes scientific work, which includes very much networking with similar institutions not only in Europe but also in the world and in this way, science contributes therefore, understanding, understanding of what is happening in nature and the environment and therefore helps to make decisions. And it was important to keep it that way. We look at this, the European Agency for... So there is then a whole network of national agencies, either the environment and nature, or just the environment or nature itself, so almost all countries have it and now Croatia will show one unusual phenomenon, that it is abolishing or withdrawing it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we're gonna hear it, it's not going to go away, it's just sitting inside the ministry. But that's not acceptable, it's unnecessary, so it can't be justified by any rationalization, because it doesn't matter, I would therefore like to see that basis, that analysis, which has served to make this wrong decision, because independence is important. We know that there are various documents, there is an assessment of the acceptability of the ecological network, which is based on expert opinions, which are formed in this agency. And, of course, we've experienced it before, and we'll experience it many times, that individual assessments, or expert opinions, which evaluate someone's procedure, are planned, in an area like nature 2000 or in a protected area, that they won't like it. And this is how when, of course, it gets dragged into the ministry, since it's now part of a chain of command, it thinks it's much easier to regulate, within the ministry. Before that, I've been able to say, as Minister, forgive me, but I trust our experts, I can't trample on their bases. So the answer to your question about something is that. And I think that's how it has to be, it's important that it is. Otherwise, we'll learn, if we'll ever learn, so we'll be able to learn from our own mistakes, which already has a lot. Therefore, here, I will not continue to prolong, I am sorry that we are not able to monitor how activities are going to meet the objectives and many obligations that we have undertaken through the adoption of a number of directives, therefore, the adoption of appropriate laws, I do not know about the preservation of natural habitats, wild flora and fauna, birds, invasive species, protection of diversity, within which Croatia, now the non-existent agency has been a partner, i.e. the user of European projects, where I think more than 400 million kunas of money, Europeans, therefore, where experts are then engaged and perform various professional affairs, which are consistent with what is written in these laws. Here, however, these people must now be terrified of what will happen, therefore, because, of course, they are now on a direct being, if of course they will not, and so it will depend on someone's will, which is very bad and I'm sorry that it does, and that's why the bridge of the independent lists will be against this proposal, that is, the changes to these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125514	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, next is counterpart Domagoj Mikulić, in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, please welcome colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125515	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with an associate, respected colleague and colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at its meeting on 2 August 2018, adopted a proposal to reduce the number of agencies, institutions, funds, companies, institutes, foundations, and other legal persons with public authority, which was an excellent measure aimed at increasing the efficiency and rationalisation of costs and tasked the authorities of the state administration to implement the implementation of that reduction. Just because of this decision, today we have in an urgent procedure amendments to the Nature Protection Act, the Law amending the Law on the Prevention and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species and Management, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of Regulation 511/2014 on harmonisation measures for users of the Nagoya Protocol and the Law amending the Law on Cross-border Transport and Wildlife Trade. Since the Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act is prescribed for the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, which came into force at the beginning of this year, and a Regulation establishing the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency has been laid down and the Ministry of Environment and Energy will take over the activities of the Croatian Environment Agency. As the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency is defined as a body carrying out professional tasks of nature protection under the Nature Protection Act, the Law on the Prevention of the Introduction and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species, the Law implementing Regulation No. 1511/2014 and the Act on Cross-border Transport and Wildlife Trade, it is necessary to bring those laws into line with specific regulations governing the termination of the Agency's work, which is taken over by the Ministry of Environment and Energy as a whole. The National Reform Programme has established a reform measure to unite inspections in the State Inspectorate as a basis for more effective conduct of inspection tasks which, following the adoption of the Law on the State Inspectorate which enters into force on 1 April of this year and which determines that inspection operations from the part of the Ministry and other central authorities, will, in this case, pass the Ministry of Environment and the Department of Agriculture to the State Inspectorate, therefore, require the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate to carry out inspection under those laws. In line with all of this, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the abovementioned legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125516	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, Tomislav Sauch. Here you go, Comrade Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. It's always awkward when you do some, try to make some savings in a way that connects or abolishs certain bodies of state administrations or agencies, there's always very good reasons why some agency or body should exist and then again somewhere else needs to go, somewhere it needs to be broken and eventually, it's always thought that any such agency surpluses or institutes or funds are often shown as a litter of arrests, parasites and something that needs to be abolished. Of course, not every institution is like that and of course it should always be considered whether a body needs to be connected, how positive effects are obtained and how negative effects are obtained. We've recently passed a lot of amendments to the laws that have been going to remove certain bodies, to connect, to save some money on the heads of these bodies' salaries, perhaps in some administration, I don't think such savings are likely to be colossal, but they always need to be started from somewhere. Each government, as far as I know, makes such a decision at some point and goes into such a single process and so is one of the agencies. the institutions which have made this Environment Protection Agency i.e. The Croatian Environment Agency was equally abolished by the government's decision to streamline the number of bodies with public authority in 2015. So this isn't the first time and probably not the last time, more or less any government remembers doing something like this at some point. So today, we have a package of laws, four laws that are actually organically linked to the fact that there have been legislative changes before the end of 2018, so by voting the amendments and the addition of the Environmental Protection Act that came into force 1. 1. 2019, which has been prescribed the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and the termination of the Regulation establishing that agency. And this was, of course, consistent with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds and other funds since 2 August 2018. So as part of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, this task has been carried out this way and will now be shown in the future whether this agency should have been abolished or not. to the ministry, whether it was the smartest move or not, it will be seen, of course I can't discuss it that way, so in a metric way as Professor would. Dobrovic, however, is a former minister and professor at the university but here, so we are now dealing with a smaller issue, so the agency is already de facto abolished by the vote of amendments and the addition of the law in question and is now only adapting to the existing legislative framework, what already exists in order not to reach the legal vacuum because the agency has de facto been abolished already at the moment. So he specifically refers to the law that was being amended today, it was necessary of course to discard the provisions governing the partial inspection of nature protection, which is also one of the legal papers which now needs to adapt these laws because, as we know, at the end of last year, the Law on State Inspectorate i.e. The Act amending the delirious body of the State administration which transferred inspection powers to the newly established State Inspectorate so that, in each consequence, in each of these laws, it was necessary to exclude those parts of the law concerning inspection powers. Therefore, the other laws that we are amending today in order to comply with the amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment and Conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are the Law on the Prevention of the Introduction and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species and Management of them. This law also amends the provisions of the subsequent abolition of the Croatian Environment Protection Agency, whose jobs now move to the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Also inspection tasks as we have said that were previously regulated by this law are being passed into the work of the newly established State Inspectorate. The Act amending the Law on cross-border transport and trade of wild species, this Law, which was adopted otherwise in 2013, was assigned to carry out operations with the address authority, then the State Institute for Nature Protection, which was already discussed today, and by the Government's decision of 2015 on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority, the State Institute for Nature Protection, together with the Environment Protection Agency, is integrated into the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, this is now the Agency's work. As this Agency has been abolished, amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of 2 August 2018, should be made to amend this Act. It is not bad here to note that it took into account the need to establish a special design unit within the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection to carry out professional analytical tasks of nature protection that are different from the work of the Ministry of Administrative Affairs. So that's what the colleague was saying, so, and what the secretary of state was saying, so it was made sure that they weren't the same, that they weren't the same description of the job that the previous Agency was doing and what the Ministry was doing as a government body. The Convention and the Council Regulation on the Protection of Wild Fauna and Fleet, therefore, was taken into account here, states the need to determine the competent... the bodies whose tasks must be separated from the tasks of the competent administrative authority, i.e. the Ministry. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nature Protection Authority. It is only now, of course, that we know that the salaries at the Ministry are somewhat less than in the agencies, and now we hope that those persons who were experts who worked at the Agency will not, however, somehow feel the need to continue their career somewhere further. that this will not significantly affect the quality of work now of this new design unit. Also as previous Law, provisions relating to inspection supervision are amended to the State Inspectorate. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's also one of the laws that's changing today. This Law prescribed the establishment of a committee tasked with monitoring the implementation of the Regulation, coordinating inter-resorship cooperation and effective flow of information between competent authorities, and carrying out expert inspection. So, as with the previous laws, so does this, so... The law on the protection of the environment and the abolition of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency needs to be adapted to the provisions of this Act because, so far, the representatives of that Agency have sat in this Committee and now, by abolishing the Agency, of course, I don't think they can be presented in this Committee anymore, so that this Law now provides for, meaning, their place of the busy officials of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm guessing from that construction unit that the employees of the former agency will be involved in, so it's probably not going to change any more significantly from that qualitative aspect. As with previous laws, it was necessary to remove from this Law those parts relating to inspection supervision because it goes to the department of the State Inspectorate. So, what else can be added for the end? So, as I said, it's never, you can always find 500 reasons why it should be founded, just as many reasons why it doesn't need to be founded, and it's always a sensitive job and a very ungrateful job because on the one hand when the state is setting up some new agency or other legal person, then it's talking about the noise of a state apparatus, when it's shrinking, then it's said that it's not exactly there to be cut and it's always to be cut somewhere else. So, unfortunately, this time the scissors came in here, we hope that this will all work well together, the club of HNS representatives will support these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125518	Thank you. We continue with discussions on behalf of the club of representatives, following is colleague Silvano Hrelja on behalf of GLAS and HSU's club, please welcome colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125519	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us this package of four laws, in fact, we do not need to extend this time for a speech on behalf of the clubs, except for formal reasons because there is nothing to talk about since it is the same changes in all the laws i.e. to remove the Agency's competence and to have inspections carried out by those agencies go to the State Inspectorate. Therefore, similar changes are, however, we have the right here to talk about our views, political views because this is where this is being expressed and I have the right to say that this is not the way we go forward and that by strictly centralising all professions or by drowning the profession in the Ministry, I think this government is not showing its strength, but its weakness. Your weakness in the sense that it is not a frame to deal with professional opinions that are opposed to certain intentions, which is not good. It's not good, it's not good communication between, not being simple, managing structures, not talking about political power, governance structures and the professional community, the academic community. Secondly, we have these people, regardless of which government, when it did, employed with certain tasks, entrusted them with trust, we've asked for exactly the experts of these profiles, and we've expected certain results. If someone did not respect these principles, so did the party, as is often said here, arrests, it should be clarified, it should be insisted on the fact that really justified professional bases are given and that, on the basis of them, decisions have been made so far for the recovery of a quarry, the opinion of this Agency for the Protection of Nature and the Environment should be taken to make decisions, anywhere. Any level. Today, that part, the department of the ministry will, no. No, the minister will make a decision. The minister will make a decision, so we go to an exclusive political decision. As far as I'm concerned, this law has been more tolerated as far as the inspections are concerned. It is a matter for every government to say whether they will have a centralised or decentralised inspection, so every inspectorate at the competent ministry. But this is not the other way around. It is not good to subjugate the profession to governing bodies, management functions in the long term and to have the need for interdisciplinary action among the ministries, as you can see, how the Ministry of Agriculture will decide on the emancipation mentioned today by counterpart Djakic and others. How many miles does it take to yoke without destroying flora and fauna in a single river? Who's going to do that? This would be an excellent task for this Nature Protection Agency to provide professional bases, to work with competent international institutions and not to have someone decide from the eye. So we didn't develop that part. Besides, the agency hasn't actually told us until today what it is and what it's like to be an elemental accident. I'm sure it's an ice-cold elemental accident. That destroying forests because of ice and breaking trees is a natural elemental disaster, but I'm not sure that we can classify something as a elemental disaster because of people's neglect, because of the negation, because of not cleaning up the average forest, because of the failure of the function that we have as a society. Here in this work I see a very important role of these agencies, I think at least I was part of the ruling majority and here all the time in the Assembly, there was no intention of getting to the agencies, and there was no modernity to set up agencies, but it was really a dry need and, secondly, we were obliged to establish communication with such European agencies to do nothing else, to exchange data, not to talk about another part of the use of funds by individual projects, and so we use European money very badly, we don't use all the channels, we use very little channels, and I think this can bring much more damage than the benefits, but when we talk about the benefits that no one has quantified so far. The benefits of the government's decision of 2 August last year have not yet been quantified. But I'm just pointing out that it's possible and major damage. You know, I was in this House when we were on our amendment to HSU was founded the Institute for the Promotion and Development of Labour Protection and he made contact with the European Agency for Safety at Work, they worked together on projects, and it was abolished by amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act. Health and safety at work has also been abolished. These two could have been connected to one institution or one institute. That we don't have too much. But why give up the profession? Why subjugate the profession to management structures? Once or twice someone's gonna be able to bark and fly that sword and it's not good, and here it is, there's the wrong decision. So, as we at the GLAS and HSU club at the time these two institutions were abolished, so we will also be against the adoption of these laws. I repeat, as far as the inspection is concerned, we wouldn't be against security because it's your right. As for the abolition of such important agencies, important because agencies must create expert bases on what we will leave for those who are not yet born in Croatia. Not to us. What we leave behind, what kind of nature and the environment will be left to those who are not yet born today, which is why they are important, which is why expert opinions are important, which is why independent bodies, based on professions, arguments, make opinions and decisions can be made in one way or another. Opinions and decisions are two different concepts, someone can always take responsibility for both the public and the responsibility for the damage and make a different decision but the opinion is very important because we can't all know about everything and a lot of people know a lot but they have to be respected and they have to be given to work, to create, to develop, no one has come anywhere or into politics to know everything and to talk about everything like some of our colleagues. It takes time to understand how it works, it takes time to determine something, and then you keep building on it, and then you can talk about it competently. Here's the bottom line again, the GLAS and HSU club can't support these laws for principle reasons, for the sake of the firmness of our political position, and as far as inspection is concerned, we don't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125520	Thank you, too, colleague Hrelja. We continue with discussions on behalf of the club of representatives, this is also the last debate on behalf of the club of representatives. Comrade Davor Vlaović, in front of the HSS club, please welcome colleague Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125521	Thank you, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretaries and associates, on behalf of the HSS Club, may say that we will not support this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, as well as the other three laws, because they are based on the implementation of the Government's decision of last year, which repeals the 19th Agency and the Institute. And it's not that we're only against it because we're the opposition. We, as a club and myself personally, have asked for more times from the representatives of the Ministry, depending on which agency it was concerned, and most I spoke about the abolition of Croatia's advisory agricultural forestry service, the Croatian cattle selection centre and others, to give me the grounds which was the occasion for certain agencies to be abolished, which will be benefits from that. The Honorable State Secretary from the Ministry of Agriculture said, and the savings will be safe, you will see. And here, it came out yesterday, the day before yesterday, when the finance minister announced that a billion and 227 million kuna had been distributed to the Ministry and that all employees of these agencies had been taken over by the Ministry. So there's no savings. Apparently now they'll see through the Ministry if they can make savings. Well, it was known in the beginning that there was no savings, that this is just one political decision to change something, that it would be made public to change something, that it would be by the management system of a more quality, and that this would be, and this would be, these discussions that were just here, say that it wasn't exactly, that it was a clean political decision, without the real financial effects, and that this would seem to be just a solution to the staff, because now you'll see people who were doctors of science, who were working in these professional and scientific institutions, as well as the Environment and Nature Agency, drown them in the Ministry, the question of whether these people would go there on a smaller salary or leave that job and go somewhere in private business, where they could certainly achieve higher salaries and you'll have a lack of expert staff, and on the other hand, for some external evaluations for procedures in space, where there is a professional external evaluation, you'll be looking for counseling, and what you'll probably be expensive, but you'll be. It's a reality and it's certainly going to happen, so there's no savings, we'll even be expensive, but here, I'll let you get rid of 19 directors or head of the Bureau who may have been politically reluctant to you, but then that's what you should have said, let's set up our staff to do as the ministers tell each ministry. But it is also a real danger to carry out the political will of the majority, or the ruling majority, that is, we know how, by trade and buying mandates, and certainly that is not good. And here, when it comes to this Environment and Nature Agency, most European members have the Croatian agency as an independent professional body. What are we convinced the Ministry will do independently and professionally or will work politically? So let's face it, political decisions will be made, employees of these departments or departments that have been so far will have to implement it if they want to stay in such circumstances because I say, there are a lot of experts who won't allow themselves, because of their expertise, to submit that political dictatorship. What, in my opinion, is good, and this is a pooling of inspections at the State Inspectorate because, I have spoken here several times, that certain craftsmen and entrepreneurs had had the main objection in this sense every day or every week had one, two, three, five inspections, that no more inspectors knew what their jurisdiction was, that in different cases in the same case, they had different penalties and solutions, so I welcome this if it would bring rationalisation of inspection supervision and where little craftsmen, entrepreneurs, and even family agricultural economies would be relieved, not to train the strictity of the small because it was usually so. These big guys, Agrokor, they weren't supposed to go, or if they did, they didn't even write anything, and the little craftsman for one extra kuna in the register closed the crafts. So in that part, I'm thinking maybe the State Inspectorate, if it's so organized, could bring something better. We bring amendments to the Law on the prevention of the introduction of foreign invasive species into nature in the Republic of Croatia, and we must certainly be careful there. And I would point out one big problem because we have entered the Croatian forests of a network of oaks that is doing great damage to oak forests in Slavonia and that is for sure that this future State Inspectorate and the competent Ministry together with the Faculty of Forests and the Institute should allocate more resources to explore its biology and ways of spreading and preventing damage in forests because the fact that we are going over it is easy. When we had this topic on the Committee on Agriculture, the minister promised to allocate more funding for research and that the Faculty of Forests and the Institute would have enough money, come on, now you're removing the Agency, there's no savings, maybe you'll save something, so give the money for those research. He would also repeat that we from HSS are against the introduction of GMO material into the Republic of Croatia. We want the Republic of Croatia to continue to be GMO FREE, as most counties in the Republic of Croatia have made decisions and I hope that this State Inspectorate and these affairs of inspection, which are going through this Act on them, will do so, not allow itself to enter any genetically modified organisms into the Republic of Croatia, and here I have already mentioned the problem that has been imposed these days, and this is the provision of nuclear waste from Krško where the Republic of Croatia has a contractual obligation as a partner and has started to whisper again that it should go to Sisak Moslavina County, in Trska Gora, and we are immediately contacted by our members from Sisak Moslavina County, and I am here publicly saying that we are against it, that we need to make professional bases and in all possible ways to avoid this nuclear waste coming into this area because it is certainly not good, and especially if we do not have an independent professional body that would give it to the independent and to the people who are eligible. Once again, I would mention the problem and call to the future inspectorate of state and inspectors who will deal with the issue of air quality, that there is still no problem of air pollution in Slavonski Brod, that here are today the parameters of solid particles IPM 2.5% and PM 10, so that somehow the problem has been quieted down, there has been a promise of rapid ratification of the refinery in Bosnia Brod, meanwhile there has been a fire and explosion and instead of having a boom to solve the problem, we have a year of silence of the administration, silence of the president, silence of all those who promised it, and citizens of Slavonski Brod have continued polluted air and are getting sick. And I would mention exactly the importance of the agencies that we're removing is an independent professional body that also provided the basis for useful permits, for waste disposal, i.e., involved in the creation of waste management and environmental protection policies, so the waste dump, Pachanska in Davor municipality, got a useful license of 115 thousand tonnes, and already over 20 thousand tonnes there have been deposited, more than they have a administrative permit, so I'm curious whether... The state inspectorate and that these inspections begin to work and that there is something to be done to close this dump. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I'm going to remind you of a 3 km dump is the source of a drink from which it will be supplied or already supplies 60 thousand inhabitants from Nova Kapela to Okacan. I think it's inadmissible that the amendments to this law and the insistence of the State Inspectorate finally get the inspections to work and to make order and to protect the quality of life of citizens. We'll be against these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125522	Thank you, too. This ends the debate on behalf of the clubs, we continue with individual debates, the next fellow Bulj, the fellow Bulja does not have, in accordance with Article. In 233, he lost the right to speak on this agenda point. After him, he's a colleague of Gordan Maras, as well as a colleague of Bulls. After them is a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, he is here, please welcome colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125523	I've arrived with the sound of a siren. Okay, thank you, Mr. President. I once again welcome the Secretary of State and Assistant from the Ministry. We have a few laws here, but I'm going to talk about what I said about the replica, and it's about joining the Environment and Nature Agency with the ministry. So as I said in the replica, it's about one measure, which is depicted as a austerity measure. And then when you say that to voters, to Croatian citizens, we're all for it. Who isn't in favour of saving, who isn't in favour of reduction, the reduction of the state's apparatus, we're all for it, that stands. However, these two agencies, and it is not a small number, as it is all a total of 1200 employees, who are attached from the agencies to the ministries and the rest of the 1200. So that's true. So there were 1200 of them, now there's 1200 of them, they're just not in the agencies anymore, they're in the ministries, so I'm asking you where's the savings? Savings, short and clear, I'll repeat five times, no savings. Because there's not one less employee, we don't even have those savings, for example. rent space because these employees, in 100% of cases, remain in the same facilities, buildings, which are again rented at the same price as they were, but the costs are growing. Costs are rising, because now they're suddenly these agencies, they need to communicate with the ministries. Somewhere near space, so we have the costs of transport, the costs of sort of correspondence, any kind of problem, but we have one problem, which bothers me, and here, I will point out through this debate several times, which is that unfortunately, I will say, and we are all aware of that in our country, that 99% of the people who are employed in the ministries regardless of their function, was it a minister, a secretary of state or someone else, however political functions, that those who come there are rare, and that they did not have the blessing of the people of politics, ultimately as you are respected state secretary or I am minister. That's right, we had an independent body, we had an agency, which was independent, and it was influenced by politics, but still, it was on the side, and now we're going to that scale. So, that agency is, I'm talking about the agency now for, and that's the law today, whether, for the environment and nature, it's among other things, I mean, she's been doing professional affairs and that's why she had independence. Among other things, she made professional bases, which, if you remember, I have pointed out many times, that they are old and unaudited and that should be rushed to work, did not work well, and this is a real problem, which we have today hundreds of protected parts of Croatia with decisions to protect from 1974. So 44 years old, 45 years old now. So it's a professional body and now this expert body belongs to the ministry, which has a completely different form of action. So, that's the problem and it's not a little problem and nice fellow Dobrovic said, that this would be a failed experiment, by myself, and that sooner or later you'd see that he's no good, but I'd like you to comment, please colleague a little quieter, I can't here this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125524	Just a second please, colleagues, please, colleague of the story, so he has the right to... I'll stop your time, I'm sorry, please, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125525	So we have now, in particular, we have a convention of Citras, and according to that convention, an independent body, which can't, and you know it, and you've answered me in the replica, and you haven't answered what's true, and here in the final word I call you to tell me otherwise, to say we have a problem, I don't know, let's just fix it with an amendment and see something because that's the problem. So an independent body must have expert opinions. Professional opinions, an example in nature, an independent body, and we are internationally obliged to have an independent body. It can be solved and the way is simple. What way? There's a foreign company behind the Ministry, and then we're paying another company, and you know it's already doing a lot of them, but I'm not against these companies to get along. But if we're going to cut costs then let's cut them down. The ministry won't be able to give itself solutions, it won't be possible. And when we talk about expenses, watch this, here we have, this is 120 employees, if I'm not wrong, plus, minus, they're all gonna have to take a state exam, is that the cost? I think it is, but it's not 120, here, I'm out of this law right now, it's 1200 because it's a whole series of agencies that join the ministries, and according to the law everyone has to take a state exam, so I think it's a huge expense, I don't know if anyone in this Assembly is going to say it's not a new cost. By having another situation here, or another thing that will come to the vote, and it is about the addition and the Inspection of Nature Protection to the State Inspectorate, it is about a specific portfolio. But if we've already had one decision by the Government to attach all of this, why is it that the Fishery's inspection, the Port Captain's inspection and the inspection at the Ministry of Culture and the Conservatory Inspectorate's Office has been abandoned? Why was that left out? And everything else was put as one, so, from the hills, from the valley to the State Inspectorate. And it's a specific problem or a specific business that can't be put under the same hat, and it worked with its faults, virtues, but it worked. So let's go to the metrics. No savings, no rationalisation, the system will work harder because we will have another line of communication that was not needed, another line, we will have a growing policy impact, which I find not good, especially on the profession, it is a professional body, the State Institute for Nature Protection, once, meaning since 2015 under this Agency, so it is a professional body, it is not good to mix policies in the profession, and the savings will not be. So if you have any influence on the minister, if you have any influence on the government of the Republic of Croatia, talk to them about this. If the goal of the government was to say one beautiful, means that the public hears, we will shut down, which number of agencies is concerned, I no longer know, 10, 20, 50 the Agency, the goal is achieved, but thanks to this, the worse society, the worse it will work and the point is, there will be no savings, but there will be bigger costs. And here's what I'm really interested in, I'm going to follow you now and the work of the State Department, there's a lot of colleagues I'm communicating with and I'm very interested in the next period, and I'm going to call you and you and the Ministry and all of them when there are professional bases, especially this proposal CITES, and there's a whole series of, there's a lot of things they've been ordering out there, and it could have been done by the State Department. Maybe employees at the State Institute will be okay, they won't actually do anything, they'll just sit there, they'll get paid, and someone on the side, which wasn't a rare case, will do their professional work because it allows them, or because the Ministry can't hand over the document they're looking for. So, here, I wouldn't be longer, I think I've been more or less clear. Think about what I said, I said well-intentioned, and I think this reform is exactly what the Prime Minister is fighting against, and that's populism, so he's always talking about populistism as the biggest problem of Western democracy, and this is exactly what a populist measure is because he wanted to emphasize we're shutting down the Agency, and we're actually putting everything under a handful of politics and it's going to be more expensive and more complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125526	Thank you, Agent, for your exposure, we have two replicas, from colleagues Loncar and colleagues Babic. The first is a colleague of the Lonchars. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125527	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Zekanovic, very much of the allegations you made here, and one of these is savings when it comes to state exams. All these officials who have been in the Agency's body that you mention, in 99%, responsiblely claim, have passed a state exam and this is one big measure and it is one big savings that new employees, when they arrive at the Agency or any other institution, do not have, not have the right, but do not need to take a professional exam, it is one of the savings. The other thing is, the technical tasks they have done and will be carried out through this process of entering the Ministry remain in their professional, working and... calling, so that states which you are, in fact, citing from the savings, there are great savings and will show time and very, very quickly. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125528	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125529	Dear colleague Lonchar, that's right, time will tell. Time will show, here it is, I sincerely wish that you were right, most sincerely I wish that you were right and that this really results in savings in all possible sectors, the resolutions that are concerned, but here, I've given you a few examples where it simply can't be savings and time will show, unfortunately, the system will be something worse, by me, but here, I hope you're right, but skeptic I am, or I'm actually convinced that it's the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125530	And the last replica of your presentation, Comrade Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125531	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Zekanovic, I remember your discussions at HS where you said we were a highly centralised country. The HDZ when it went to the elections, parliamentary elections, then it went with a specific programme and if you see it in the HDZ programme, we talked about the abolition of certain agencies, the Institute and the Funds that will join the ministries. You are expressing the skepticism, as well as many here at HS that the Nature Protection Agency is actually one professional body and that with this the ministry will now have major problems, if this agency is not professional because it is called the Agency but because people work, professional people in that agency will now be in the ministry, therefore at quality it will not be lost. And one more thing if you have time you can go to, say, the governments of Germany, Austria and also our neighbouring Slovenia, and you will see that they have solved this problem long ago and are very effective than when they had a large number of agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125532	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125533	My colleague Babić, therefore, I also said concrete examples, the expert exams are one huge expense, because this space is undivided, and it will have to be communicated, will collect, will collect the cost of functioning. Furthermore, with this specific resistor, I've worked for eight years on nature protection affairs, I know what I'm talking about. So these employees who will continue to be equally professional, and this is about great experts mostly, they simply won't be able to do the work they've been doing before because of the international rules that we signed because independent bodies are doing it. So the ministry can't just bring down those solutions to itself, it has to be an independent body and it simply won't work. And what was heard in the government, and there was a decrease in the number of employees, did not increase the number and will increase constantly because it is simply the practice of our Croatia. So it's increased and it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125534	Thank you and we will conclude the last individual debate of colleagues Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125535	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, honourable secretary of state and assistant minister, so my view of these two or all four laws will be somewhat different from all the debates so far, so I don't want to discuss it the way we've discussed today that we're always against anything this government suggests and we mostly find a niche or a target that's wrong or not good. I'm a witness of a lot of debate here in the assembly when just the parliamentary deputies asked for dozens and dozens of agencies to be abolished because they have no purpose and to burden society only in their numbers, without talking about their names and what they are dealing with, no. And then the governments came, and they promised to cut them off, so we won't end it, etc. According to that question, each government treated itself in its own way. I think that this government has reliably approached this problem and told the ministries in its conclusion of 8 months last year that we will abolish a number of agencies, attach them together with not knowing the institutions, institutes, etc., so that these employees can continue to work uninterruptedly, but also to allow simplification and procedure and adoption of opinions and all other activities that these agencies have carried out. The story of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency becomes practical in 2015 when several months before the elections, the government established the agency in a way that connects the State Institute for Nature Protection and some former Environmental Protection Agency. So a few months before the election, we start the agency and then we synthesize something again to keep living and working. And it took me so long and I looked at this agency's work report for 2015 and 2016, and it's available to determine what they're dealing with and what they've been doing for two years. Only the fact that this agency has changed several times over the past two years by members of the Board of Directors and Directors shows uncertainty i.e. the inability or individual wishes of policies to manage these agencies in such a way as to change the directors or members of the Board of Directors. We have opinions from both governments and ministers that change both directors and members of the board of directors as well as from election to election. And what the agency managed to do in those two years, hold five board meetings. Bring in the basics so it can work. So what were we dealing with in this agency? The honor of every man, as far as I can see, is somewhere around a hundredth of them in that employee agency, no, the annual budget was somewhere on the level of 47 and 8 million kuna, and they must have had their assignments. Creating databases for spatial documentation, forest management, agricultural land, etc., nature protection, environmental protection etc., a number of opinions given on studies, on projects, on strategies and probably people have done so neatly in their own way in such a structure. What's changing now? Well, probably these people will still have the right to their opinions, to their vision of certain situations, which happened now, the minister takes on a large part of the job he may not need. What would he have to sign if someone else had done so far, but he's dealing with it and wants to make it easier to function that way. I come from the field and I know what this agency means to us on the ground and to her opinion that we've been waiting for for some months now to arrange a water stream. The terms as much as you want, for which, so nature protection, there we have this, there we have what, all of these plans have been recorded somewhere. What do I blame? I resent field work, so we are not down in the field from the Zagreb office to give you an opinion. No one saw anything but we have a map. Okay, if the map shows the true state of something on the ground, I think no, come down so look and say it's wrong or it needs to be arranged, and not there is this, there is that, there's this bird moving, there's a bat, there's this part, and no one can do anything, great. And what we did in a year, almost nothing. It just doesn't work. So, this attempt to with 17, abolish 17 agencies and attach them to the ministries that they are responsible for, to the inspectorate, i.e. The inspections in this case of nature protection and the environment attach the roof body to the State Inspectorate because I believe we will not lose our profession, the profession remains in the ministry, and saving is the job of the minister and the way in which it will deploy the work. Look at the report for 2015 and 2016 and all the activities and what it cost so much and so much money, let's see, let's not just lightly do it or not. I remember here the debate and we watch as parties and individuals vote, no, cut VAT, so we're all for reducing VAT, and when we cut it down they vote against it, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, so much, we put it on 13, why it's not 5, why it's not 0, we raise it, why so much, I mean, we always have some kind of conflict without a lot of thinking, which brings us something. I personally believe that this job of 17 agencies that have been abolished is not just a simple thing, how much the law had to change, when you look at their powers, in which they all gave an opinion, almost every article of the amendment of this first law, is about one part where they were competent. It hasn't been lifted, the waist remains there, which we don't have, the principal, no administrative council,... We don't have those five sessions, is that a problem? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it should be a problem, but responsibility is taken over by the minister and his men under him, the secretary of state, the assistants, so they won't be left without the opportunity to give an opinion. In this respect, we have a situation that something came up three years ago and today in some way when a new law is passed, a new structure will be formed. I've never seen this agency in the world of some other agencies, which are truly independent, regulators are and solve certain problems, like I don't know, HACOM, like, I don't know HERA, etc. HANDA, etc. they have very specific tasks in regulation and markets and everything else that is going on in their responsibilities. Here to arbitration between the values of individual opinions or studies, I think that, those people who are going to be in the ministry and who are now in the ministry can do well without the agency, more so as to show that what has been created again by some former institutions, which have already been independent, because they had some sort of independent administrative body and director. Selfishness, I mean, it doesn't work, that way, that you've given someone something else away, a little special, and now you've given him something else. With the more you've financed everything from the state budget and everything that comes, I say in terms of profit, i.e. revenue from the state budget. That's the level of independence, that's what I'd say, let's discuss. We have the same story with this other Law on the Prevention of Entering and Spreading Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species. And another law that caused controversy when we passed it. Once again one small change in the Agency's authority and inspection, they change in relation to what we're... And today we're reading some articles about a billion and 200 that the government is redistributing and there's no savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's let the time go, why so far no one's talked about the cost, if we're talking about savings now, why it was normal for us, with all the stories, that every agency needs to be abolished, how many times it's been heard here in the Parliament. Instead of saying MPs, so we do something, to simplify the procedure and not to wait for an opinion of 6, 7 or a year, 6, 7 months to a year, we should try to solve it faster, but not because we will not respect the profession, which we will not respect the people who need to write it, but because we simply realize that this country can function better and better, so if we have to, I say, what you're talking about, the same cost, there will certainly be no more. I think you'll be less, just by abolishing the director and the board of directors, you should probably be less, so times 17 would probably be able to calculate everything. Not just in that section, but in every segment that those agencies had. And finally, one government that's caught up with it is being criticised for why it's doing it, because so far, all the laws that have discussed it have not seen the good will to accept it as something that is desirable in this country. On the other hand, stories and stories, there are a lot of them, all of them need to be lifted, when we come against them. I think I've been pretty clear, why I don't think all four, all four should be supported, because surely in the future, in the next part of 2019, they'll be whole and '20. to show whether we are in these positions we heard today by the opposition or by what we said as a government and as a parliamentary majority, that such amendments of the law should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125536	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125537	My colleague Boric, no director has been fired, no deputy director and you know the same, so let's not tell the truth, not one director, not one deputy director has been fired, if, you name me who they are, that we know, they're not. They're all settled and taken care of at the same coefficients, on the same salary at the ministry. So there's no saving of that kind. As for the Nature Protection Department, I've sent hundreds of memos throughout my working life, eight years I've worked in that sector, so I know, what the Bureau does, which isn't working, there have been crazy solutions, when we talk about nature, about the assessment and impact of procedures on nature, so we once got a directive, that along the zip line and one, I remember a colleague... One wire, two more wires to drive the birds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the local budget was thrown into the cost of several hundred thousand kuna for a crazy decision, but that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the inability to function and that it's going to be equal to the number of workers and not one less.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125538	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125539	Thank you very much. My colleague Zekanovic, at that level, I won't discuss it, it's so casual, so it won't be, it won't be, it won't be, look at the report in 2 2015, 2016, and the reduction in the number of workers is just a report showing and it's probably going to be in some way and now, but it won't be anything like that, I'm not able to do it, in that way, as you do, and I'm saying, here you have found that when you're there, you have some people or you've done something. How much damage has been done in some local self-government, and you're okay with it, and let's keep it that way, I'm against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125540	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125541	Thank you. Comrade Boric, you have noticed, the government has often been called to lack courage, to deal with reforms. We must first stress here that one of the first reforms was a tax which, through 3 times, led to the savings of our citizens, between 7 and 8 billion kn. Then there is reform, where not to be abolished, but to combine a number of agencies, funds, institutions, a total of 54 where certain savings will certainly come. And now those who called the government to praise her, the courage for serious reforms, call her for that, which is why she does it. But I'll remind you that these are your choices, for example. Locally, they run for mayors and would abolish the counties, run for mayors and mayors and abolish cities and municipalities. It's a really interesting attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125542	Thank you, dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125543	Thank you very much, fellow Striker. We are aware of what policy we have in this business and the task of resisting arguments and of justifyingly proving that what we are discussing and bringing has its effect. I think that this story about this, too, must have its effect and the abolition of agencies is something that will be noticed during this financial year 2019, at the end of the year. We will not now say exactly what will happen a month after the start of the financial year and agree to stories that nothing is happening and there is nothing, just the abolition of 17 administrative councils with their fees would probably be summed up one amount that colleagues are not ready to add up because they would now deny themselves and say that the savings still have regardless of the coefficients, directors and all those other professional people who will continue to do their job as they did in those same ministries and before we entered the EU as they negotiated, etc. and harmonized, harmonising the legislation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125544	Thank you, the last replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125545	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you are right that we have listened to each other neatly, listened to what we have spoken then until this moment we would actually hear about one effective state and public administration, and that would happen in order to reduce administration and red tape then we should go into rationalization of public administration. This was one, one of the steps to reducing or rationalising public administration. The other thing is that maybe some colleagues weren't, we had reports here from the agencies themselves where it used to happen that the agencies themselves were covered by independent bodies, actually speaking against the politics of the ministries themselves. I am at that time, and now I have opinions as ministers and governments go to elections they are responsible, agencies are named and they have no responsibility and I think they can work effectively and in quality within the ministry itself, and not be special. Of course, some agencies will stay as such because of the directive itself and the law.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125546	The next replica, excuse the response of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125547	Thank you very much, colleague Babic, so often perception here also means in the assembly that public administration reform should be done by the Ministry of Administration as a headquarters body and everyone else should do nothing. I think it's the task of all bodies, so within the government of all ministries and administrative bodies, that, through certain activities and legal changes, we come to an effective public administration and also to rationalise the bodies that were created in the past through a number of amendments to the law, but also in line with some of the policies that were being conducted. This story of the abolition of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency will have its results at the end of 2019 and 2020, and we will see from the reports that we will be getting, until now it has sent it to the government, probably now the ministry will have to do something about it, whether it has continued and whether business has continued or has been abolished, whether there has been a problem in the implementation of certain activities and projects or not, because they are very important in the very story of withdrawing EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125548	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125549	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Boric, for reporting on a line that seems important to me and what you have said, and exactly what we want to achieve and these are the results. And my replica is of principle nature, and I agree with you in most of what you said, and I even think that the law on forming a government should solve these issues, that each government has the right to organise an administration in such a way that it is effective, that it is effective, because the government is ultimately responding to citizens for results. So we'll see, you say it well, we'll see what the results will be after this agency is shut down. So, the government has the right to start branches, branches, not exactly the agency to mysteriously, so word is that I don't know how big a thing. What's important here should be kept in mind by the ministry, it's responsible to keep the profession, to keep people who know how to do that job and make it more effective for all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125550	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125551	Thank you very much, fellow Zhagar experiences show that the abolition of agencies did not disrupt the independence of certain bodies and that no major problems arose in the ministries i.e. There are experiences. We also ran some rationalizations in that former government where certain agencies joined together and I don't see any problems today. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. And it's not the first time, and so I'm surprised that on the side of the opposition we have a negative relationship with wanting to rationalise public administration, and all the while we're talking about being rationalized, modernizing is making it effective. This is exactly the attempt and on the side of the opposition we're all against, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125552	Thank you, next replica of the esteemed representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125553	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleague, so here we are often as you have told witnesses that sometimes everything that comes as a proposal from the government is assessed at the beginning as negative. I really think it is very unserious to say that there will be no savings in this way because it will certainly be reduced and certain administrative costs because within the ministries that already have their separate departments within which certain administrative jobs are being carried out will be taken over and part of these jobs that have been carried out by special administrative services within the agencies so far. What I would really say is that it is not the most important way in which and under which a particular body is administered and cannot be threatened by independence and professional work. Because all the professions that do this work, they suit the rules of the profession and the legality and can't be the reason for independence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125554	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125555	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, I agree with you and I think that in this sense I have debated, but something else points me back to the fact that I'm surprised that you had here, meaning, a discussion about the minimum wage in which the opposition, meaning, which is growing and then the opposition is against, that we've had discussions about reducing VAT, I don't know, on food, on fresh meat, on fish, etc., that they're against it, that we're against bringing pension reform that's been a lot, a lot of stories, but everything's going normal, I don't see any more shouting. So we have a situation of a number of positive shifts where we see the entire opposition united and they're all against something. All right, I can understand that you're against it, but whether it's the most important moment in this whole debate, not seeing what's real. It says, let's look at what they're dealing with, what we've been doing for two years and three years, and what's so fatal about this country without which we can't do anymore. I think we can re-nationalize, modernise, efficiency of the public administration, the fundamental goal, the government doesn't approach this. Responsibilities and work. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125556	And the last replicas of the respected representative of Domagoj Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125557	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Although it is not the usual case for the expert agencies to be abolished, I am certainly on the verge of thinking that nothing important, as far as the profession is concerned, will change, except that we are left without one director and without the Board of Directors. So, people continue to do their job within the Ministry who have worked so far, and what might be stressed with stronger control of the Ministry itself and would like to point out once again that there will certainly be savings and that, as far as the profession is concerned, nothing changes significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125558	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125559	Thank you very much. My colleague Mikulić, I agree with you and we insist on that, we will also show this at the vote of these four laws. I say, everyone else should promote their policies, but I think this is the beginning of one time in which we want public administration, I say, rationalize and modernize it and make it effective, not touching what's important in that public administration, which is the profession and the professional people, let them, I say, do their ways of functioning through the acts of the Ministry, the internal body regulation, etc., where they will certainly get the opportunity for all those who have had it, perhaps in the Agency, in a different way or similar way, to do so and within the structure of the Ministry, without these fatals, which will be, as independent as it is, etc., because in that I say, we have a lot of experience to discuss in such a flat manner, as we heard today by the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125560	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125561	Final draft law amending the Nature Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 559, the motion is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed and I am voting on that final draft of the law, please vote. I find that most votes, 79 for, 29 abstentions and 17 votes against the law on amendments to the Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125784	Now we would move on to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing the Inter-American Investment Corporation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 563. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The above-mentioned Article. 207a. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by the International Treaties shall be adopted as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125785	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear MPs and MPs, you are now facing the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing the Inter-American Investment Corporation. The adoption of this Act fulfils the preconditions for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in that Inter-American Investment Corporation. The corporation itself has its headquarters in Washington and is part of an Inter-American Development Bank group that has a total of 48 members. It is important to stress that the Republic of Croatia was based on a succession, so that, in the separation of the assets of the former Yugoslavia back in 1993, by adopting the Law on the acceptance of the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the Inter-American Development Bank, it then accepted membership and now owns 6895 shares, i.e. total of $83.18 million. Otherwise, the Inter-American Development Bank is the oldest regional development bank in the world, founded in the 59th century with the purpose of contributing to the process of economic and social development of the public and private sector in the Latin American and Caribbean regions, and through its instruments it approves about 11 billion dollars of investment annually. At the annual Inter-American Development Bank Assembly and the Inter-American Investment Corporation held in 2015, a resolution was adopted which consolidates the private sector of the Inter-American Development Bank Group into the Inter-American Investment Corporation. At the same time, the Governor of the Inter-American Investment Corporation made a decision to accept the membership of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, the government of the Republic of Croatia, at a session held last March 22nd, decided to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of an Inter-American Investment Corporation Treaty. Since such contracts, such as the International Treaties, are subject to confirmation by the HS, the procedure for the adoption of the Treaty Confirmation Act has been initiated. It is also important to stress that the implementation of the Law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget since the Republic of Croatia has approved a model of membership through capital transfers of part of the shares it owns in the Inter-American Development Bank. As for the Inter-American Investment Corporation itself, it provides support for the private sector, therefore, in the regional Member States of Latin America and the Caribbean, and the financing instruments are loans, equity investments, debt securities investments and guarantees. The corporation also participates in joint financing with other investors on the market and provides advisory and technical assistance to additional clients. Furthermore, it has 45 members today, 26 of whom are located in the Latin American and Caribbean regions. Membership opens up the possibility for Croatian companies to participate in competitions within the framework of projects in which the Inter-American Development Bank participates, and the special comparative advantage of membership is that we will be the only member in the region of Central, Eastern and Southeast Europe with Slovenia. This makes it easier for the Republic of Croatia to access the Inter-American Development Bank's competitions and to reduce competition since non-member countries cannot apply to competitions for projects. Here's a thank you for everyone's attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125786	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the time being, the first and only one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak for the time being, the respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125787	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary Zrinasic and co-worker. I'm going to skip this introduction in view of my colleagues' interest in this debate that you've already cited, so I'm not going to read now neither the Inter-American Development Bank nor the Investment Corporation. So I'm just going to point out that the focus of the Inter-American Investment Corporation is the private sector on the trig you said to Latin America and the Caribbean. It sounds quite far, however, in that area of Latin America there are a lot, a lot of Croatian diaspora and a lot of them are taken very far there, a lot of entrepreneurs, therefore we might be able to use it when we already have that membership although I think minimally that if I remember 0.05%, however, it still allows us this preferential position when there are some competitions that are funded by the Inter-American Development Bank. Here, we are all focused on industry and exporting products, one of the markets and not so small, but in fact large and in development is Latin America. With the contacts there are our embassies, the Croatian diaspora, I hope that still represents one potential for Croatian entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125788	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point, and we will also vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, on Friday at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on trainees and judicial authorities and the judicial exam, second reading, P.Z. No. 396. As you are informed, we will then conduct a report on the amendments submitted at 11 p.m. and vote on the points discussed at 12am. After voting and taking the club position, if necessary, we will continue to discuss planned points for tomorrow. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. The session was interrupted at 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-24-0.u125789	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract for the establishment of an inter-American investment corporation, second reading, P.Z. No. 563, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, I am voting on the final proposal of that law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 119 for and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Law confirming the contract for the establishment of an inter-American investment corporation.
