ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u139161	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u139162	Thank you very much. I wish you many successes in your work. This is what we came to the end of the vote. [[Applause]] The free debate is right after we leave, those who want an assembly. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, before we move on to free speech and then the agenda with us is colleague Vinko Grgic who has to take the oath, so here we go with the procedure. Article 7 The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, and after that he shall call the representatives by name. A representative when called rises and pronounces the word, “I swear. ” So here I am now going to read the text of the oath. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly and in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Vinko Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u139164	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u139165	Thank you very much and congratulations and I wish you a great deal of success. [[Applause.]] Just a little co-worker of Schibol, for a second because he joined us and representative Damjan Vucelic, and then we'll do it after the oath. So, my colleague Vucelic's procedure is the following I will read the text of the oath, and you will then stand up and say the word "I swear." I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will abide by the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of Damian Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u139167	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u139168	Thank you very much and congratulations on your sworn oath and I want a lot of success in the work. Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2017 The holder shall be the Director of the Agency for Electronic Media and the Council for Electronic Media. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2017 shall be adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 78 votes for and 15 abstentions have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent constituency working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145897	We move to the agenda points that are planned for today: - Final proposal of the Act on the temporary measure in the area of compulsory health insurance, second reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I ask the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Tomislav Dulibic, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal for the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On the day of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland's exit from the EU without an agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the EU, the same becomes the third country. From that date on, the EU legislation ceases to apply to citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as well as to citizens of the Republic of Croatia who exercise the right to health insurance in accordance with European legal regulations on the burden of United Kingdom insurance holders who temporarily or continuously reside in or reside in the Republic of Croatia or who have established the status of insured persons in compulsory health insurance in the Republic of Croatia. By adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia will continue to apply the rules contained in European rules on the coordination of the social security system or those persons, without delay, for a period of up to one year from the date of exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union without an agreement on withdrawal under the condition of reciprocity. In the absence of reciprocity by the United Kingdom, the costs incurred under compulsory health insurance will be burdened by the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia from the position of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health will request the collection of the costs incurred by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145899	Thank you. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145900	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary and the Honorable Representative. Here, this is a final proposal for a temporary measure law in the area of compulsory health insurance. At the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament on 5 April 2019, a conclusion was reached, adopting the proposal for a temporary measure in the area of compulsory health insurance. Today is the debate on the final draft law contained in the 4 articles. In fact, there are 4 articles of which are 1st and 2nd identical. However, it is interesting in all of this Article 3 which has the second paragraph of the proposal for a law was only one and in paragraph 1: ‘In the case of no reciprocity by the United Kingdom in the application of the procedures laid down in the regulations and other regulations in the area of coordination of the social security system, the costs of the rights incurred under Article 2 of this Act shall be paid to the holder of the health insurance of the Republic of Croatia from the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia from the position of the Ministry of Health.’. Article 3 ‘The Ministry of Health will ask the United Kingdom to charge the costs referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs.’ This is the paragraph 2 of Article 3 which introduces an obligation to claim costs by the United Kingdom in the event of a lack of reciprocity which is paid to the burden of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia in favour of the health insurance holder of the Republic of Croatia or for the benefit of the HZZO. And there is also a point number of Article 4 of this Act, which determines the date of entry into force of this Act and its application. This law will be published in the National Journal and enter into force on the date of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union without an withdrawal agreement, and shall cease to be valid within the year following its entry into force. The assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, except in the case of a lack of reciprocity by the United Kingdom in which the costs incurred from compulsory health insurance are borne by the budget of the Republic of Croatia from the position of the Ministry of Health. The activities are the A793007 health care of foreigners under the total planned funding of 3 million kuna. In the debate at the 11th session of the Parliament on 5 April 2019, there was no objection and no proposal regarding the text of the legislative proposal which the applicant did not accept. So this law will fully accept the HDZ and thank you for your attention and may the Dear God protect you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145901	I thank my colleague Kirina for reading the law to us and for this debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145902	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Act on a temporary measure in the area of compulsory health insurance, second reading, P.Z. No. 609. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous, 104 votes for the adopted Act on the provisional measure in the area of compulsory health insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145903	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Executive Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 325 Proposers are the Living Wall and Power Representatives' Club, the Independent List Bridges Club and the HSS Representatives' Club. Proposers are the Living Wall and Power Club as I have read other clubs based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. The government delivered an opinion. I ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here's your esteemed colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145904	Thank you, dear Vice President Brkic. Dear counterpart Simic and distinguished colleague Bulj, I do not know if there have ever been more MPs in this assembly than at this debate today, but it is my job to present what needs to be said, the public will see it, as will see that the amendments and additions that are proposed have no interest in the Croatian Parliament, and this is about me very important changes. So let's start from the beginning, so this is something that I've already talked about during my term of office of amending the executive law that we are proposing is legally possible, and realistically probably for now utopia, because the government of the Republic of Croatia will not accept, has not accepted, and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept, nor does the Croatian Parliament. I must regret to say that even the public is not too interested in this, there is a hell of 300,000 completed and blocked citizens who are so concerned, but I can see that there are not even a lot of interest in their problems, so few people should think that they are largely responsible for what is happening to them because they are not actively involved in the changes that are possible. So what is proposed by these amendments to the executive law? First of all, it is proposed that prior to the litigation procedure, the legal costs that would potentially arise because the attorney should carry out an executive procedure on his behalf, that these legal costs should be borne in the case of a legal person who is stronger than 3 million kuna per year not to be charged by the debtor, but rather to be borne by the believer. Well, the government disagrees and explains that the Constitutional Court has already decided that there is no such thing in administrative disputes, and the Supreme Court has decided that such a thing is not possible in a litigation procedure. However, although this amendment may not be detailed since this is the first reading, the second reading will be arranged as long as the proposal is passed and it would refer in fact to the initiation of the executive procedure and to the course of the executive procedure before possible litigation. The litigation procedure is something that falls under the Law on a litigation procedure and amendments to the Executive Act are not touched by a litigation procedure. Please, get your phone out there or, I mean, there's so few people here, so it doesn't make sense. Thus, if a legal person has over 3 million kuna traffic, such a legal person must also have a service, a legal service that can carry out the tasks of the executive procedure. The executive proceedings before the case itself, if they were to be initiated, were not a complicated thing, it was essentially a serial, lawyers doing it, doing it in a way by surprise, there was no need for any special intellectual effort and any serious legal person could do it without a lawyer. Lawyers for such a job are not required for serious legal persons, and if they hire lawyers for such jobs, it just means that it allows lawyers to make money on debts, on someone's debts, the costs of a lawyer's job. Totally unnecessary. I understand that fewer legal persons who do not have large incomes and who do not have services need help, professional help from lawyers and therefore propose that this change applies only to legal persons who have incomes of more than 3 million kunas. Even if there is no such legal person, if it is a smaller legal person or a large income, it will not be a problem or pay a lawyer in that case, because it is a legal person with a large income. In particular, this applies to banks, for example, why banks would hire lawyers for the executive procedure when they have huge revenues, huge, have legal services at only the central bank but also at branches, according to city facilities, there is no need and it is not good, nor is it appropriate to allow such large legal entities as banks to additionally burden their debtors with legal costs. Let's also remember that by yesterday, banks were paying a 20% profit tax, up to 2 years ago, and now they're paying a profit tax of 18%, so they're both getting a profit tax and a 10% reduction. 10% less profit tax is paid than before, and here I see the same one, one part where you can be based on their reduced costs, if you want a lawyer to pay it. So, legally speaking, there is no obstacle to it being prescribed. If the Constitutional Court said it was not constitutional, let us let the Constitutional Court say so if someone submits a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of such a provision. Let us not prejudge the opinion of the Constitutional Court, let the Constitutional Court decide because the excuse is that the Constitutional Court will bring it down. Then let's not work against our citizens who are already burdened with debt. If there's something else I'd really like to show, which is that there's part of the cost of a lawyer that's incomprehensible. Here I have one excerpt of the cost of the executive procedure, so the public record award is 500,00 kn, shipping costs 30,00 kn, and all of this goes VAT. The cost of delivery 30,00 kn I don't know why it's so big, then we have the really real legal costs, for the composition of the executive proposal 1,000,00 kn + VAT, 1.000,00 kn + VAT for something that doesn't require any intellectual effort, so I find that unimaginable. And I find it even more incomprehensible to the extra cost that arises and is called administrative costs, it now writes administrative costs copying, print, toner writes 30,00 kn + VAT, that's 37.50 kn for some administrative costs of copying, print and toner, these costs for me are illegal, at least these small ones. On what basis are administrative costs included in legal costs, on what basis? For such a thing should be a special account, if copying is paid must be a copy account. How much does printing cost, how much toner? It's got to be an account for that. It can't just be shaken out of the sleeve. This is therefore a cost that is illegal and, as far as I know, if a party or debtor is invited not to hold that water, the courts reject such costs. However, few people realize that such a thing must not be charged. So much for that. Next thing you know, I'm suggesting that that minimum head of real estate be increased from 20.000,00 to 50,000.00 kn. I believe that 20.000,00 kn limit minimum capital for real estate is still too small a limit, that the limit should be increased to 50,000,00 kn because the property has a mostly high value and if the value of 500,000,00 kn is fulfilled due to a debt of 20,000,50 kn, it does not seem very smart to me, although there is a provision that the court can determine whether this exercise is reasonable if what is done is far greater than the debt itself. However, we cannot let judges determine always what is reasonable. Every judge will have a different thought about what's reasonable. It may be reasonable for a judge to pay the debt and, on the basis of the fact that the debt has to be paid, it will have to be allowed to apply the property worth 500,000,00 kn due to a debt of 20,000,50 kn, and it would be good to at least increase that limit to 50,000,00 kn, and it will be easier for judges to decide what is reasonable and what is not reasonable. There are some objections that such a provision would benefit some people who have a lot of real estate, so now it has 10 properties, it's due to someone and it doesn't want to pay them, and there's money, and then we're not going to make a real estate because it's the minimum capital that's not going to go through. I don't think it holds water because if someone has money, his money will end, and there won't be a problem. As far as I hear from the announcements in the new Implementing Law that border is being prepared would increase to 40.000,00 kn, so I don't think that's too bad, but in the meantime why don't we accept this proposal, I don't mind if it goes down to 40.000,00 kn, it'll be better than £20.000,00, just let the proposal go to another reading because if it doesn't go to another reading, there won't be anything from the proposal. So much for that part. The next proposal I have is to ban real estate from loans with variable interest rates where no data are agreed to change interest rates. We have a factual condition that is unequivocal, which has been established by a collective court ruling in the Frank case. In all loans, not only in loans with the CHF currency clause, but also in EURO loans and in kuna loans, banks have negotiated interest rates that change the bank's decision and which are therefore unfair and harmful because they are so agreed. In fact, even if there is no consumer protection, even if it is a legal person, if a contractual act is negotiated, the contractual act must be determined, and the contractual act which makes the change in the interest rate that is changed by the decision of the bank is an indeterminate contractual act, it is also harmful under the Consumer Protection Act and by the Law on Mandatory Relations. Since such a contractual provision is harmful, in order to become valid, it should be agreed with an annex to the new interest rate at which the data on which the interest rate is changed would be correctly established. Therefore, in any such credit contracted in such a way that the variable interest rate is changed by a decision of the bank, in order for such a variable interest rate to become valid from a certain point of time it would have to be agreed by annex as an interest rate consisting of some variable and fixed part. In the meantime, the banks made an extra mess, so I have to say, when they were in 2014. On the basis of the Consumer Credit Act, which established that the interest rate must be regulated on a voluntary basis and instead of these parameters contracts with the debtors, the banks determined these parameters voluntarily and only informed the debtors that they had set the parameters. This is again irrelevant, and it was found by the review of the Supreme Court 11-72/18 where the banks in certain court proceedings called for the fact that they were self-determined, so they informed the debtors and that this should be right from that date, that this is by law, however, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia made it clear and unequivocally established by the audit of 11-72/18 that the contractual provision must be agreed, if it is not contracted then it is not contractual, but it is non-contractual, then the Bank has decided by itself and then it is not valid. So there's a thing that's clean and clear. In all loans, almost all consumer loans agreed before 10 January 2013. the interest rates are agreed which are changed by a decision of the bank which is therefore invaluable. And in all such loans there's an unfair contract provision on the price, the price is the essential component of the contract, and if we let banks who have such loans carry out real estate because they haven't paid their dues, then we're the same as those banks, then we're thieves because we're holding these banks loyalties, the one who keeps the lottery banks in their robbery, that's a thief like the bank, and that's a fact, if it's not clear to someone, I'm sorry. The additional strengthening of this proposal came on 26 June 2019, so a few days ago from the EU court. The Court of Justice of the EU has made a decision under case C 407/18, a case of Slovenia where it is unequivocally found that, if there is an unfair contractual provision in the contract, if the bank does not pay the debtor at the time of its debt, it wishes to carry out the debtor's real estate, that the executive court has been required under official duty, whether at the request of the consumer to determine first the unfairness of the contract provision and, in the meantime, terminate the enforcement procedure until it can legally determine the unfairness of the contract provision and the compensation accordingly. So we have the strength for this proposal from the EU court, and that's very good for those people who conduct court proceedings, if they have negotiated an unfair interest rate, the exercise must not be carried out. Therefore, the EU court has once again shone because the EU court has shined several times and has glowed again and in line with that decision by the EU Court of Justice we have no problem in taking into account the implementing law of a provision prohibiting the implementation of the property as long as there is an unfair contractual provision on the variable interest rate in the loan and as long as an annex is not agreed on by a valid interest rate. It would be a rescue for some 300,000 people of potential perpetrators, but the real perpetrators will probably be or have much less, therefore, we would not harm the banks if someone thinks so because most people still pay their debts, and those who just because of unfair contractual provisions and came to the problem of paying their debts should not suffer any additional damage in a way that they have been paid with a loan in which an unfair interest rate is agreed. So there is no reason not to accept this change in the Implementing Law. The next proposal is that those executive documents signed before 17 June 2008 should be put out of force. We now have a situation that people who signed a declaration before 17 June 2008 that full income is allowed, can be completed for the whole reception, while all those who have negotiated any contracts after 17 June, contractual relations cannot be completed with the full receipt, but must remain with them and 2/3 of the receipts protected under the Implementing Law. There is no reason for one small part of the debtor, a small part that has signed such statements, to be discriminated against by other debtors, there is as some reason not to accept retroactiveness, however, retroactiveness under the Constitution is not prohibited, it is generally prohibited, but is not always prohibited, retroactiveness which is justified is allowed. Therefore, this retroactivity would be justified and could be justified by the fact that because that small part of the debtor has signed that statement that it has been discriminated against by those other debtors who did not sign those statements and that it is therefore necessary to allow them to be protected, and in addition, the whole-in-the-receiving confiscation is contrary to Article. 56. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that every man has the right to earn a profit that allows him and his families to live a free and decent life, which has already been decided by the Constitutional Court at the end of 2009, and decided in one similar case not to execute the entire income. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has already said its own on this, the Constitutional Court has said that such an act where the entire acceptance would be carried out is not in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, these statements were signed before 17 June 2008. they are not in accordance with the Constitution. In addition to these amendments that I have proposed through the amendments to the Implementing Law, amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations that I have already proposed before would be necessary, but I will propose them again, not now, but at any other time, but in any case, if this complete package of amendments to the Implementing Law and amendments to the Immigrant Relations Act were accepted, it should not even be amended by the Implementing Law, except in some technical part, because it is technically easier to implement. And what did I want to change the Law on Mandatory Relations? First of all, the change in the order of payment of dues in a way that first charges are charged, then the principal and only at the end of the tightening interest, even the Croatian bar of attorneys supported the proposal recently, if supported by the Croatian bar of attorneys, this means that the profession supports it and that means that such a proposal is meaningful, meaningful and would contribute to a better situation for debtors. Another thing, tight, legal tight interest shouldn't interfere with the height of the principal. And the third thing to prescribe is the absolute limitation period, I think that the execution is one of the few situations for which there is no absolute limitation period, but it can be extended forever for the next 10 years as soon as the way to charge for it is changed. Now, this one executive package, which would allow me to accept what I was saying about the Executive Act and in which it would be accepted to change the order of payment of dues, so that the interest rates do not exceed the principal's height and that the absolute period of limitation is prescribed, I believe that one good number of debtors, with one retroactive application of some provisions, would immediately resolve their accounts and would no longer be blocked, and one other part of the debtor would allow them to step out of the blockades within a year, two completely. I claim that these amendments that I propose and which are supported by the MOST Club and the HSS Club, I thank them for that, I say that these amendments are legally possible, that they are meaningful and that they would bring much greater results than the new Executive Act proposed by the HDZ and that we have not yet received on the assembly benches to discuss it in public debates. So much for now, I'll say a few more words later, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145905	I thank my colleague Alexic. Unfortunately, you are right about the presence of MPs, not even the promoter, not even colleagues and colleagues from the Living Wall, even though there are no more clubs and no more HSS, there are only colleagues from MOST and HDZ, of course. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? There's no one here. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145906	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice-President, is the fact that there is no situation of political proposing but the fact that the current opposition in the Croatian Parliament is in the majority, so that it speaks of how much interest the majority is after voting neatly and zealously where they were 76 hands enough, where this was to say the statistics on the price was the whole time making decisions i.e. Voting, let's see now that you have the vice presidents of the majority and colleagues of Simic, no one in most has absolutely any, and I am sorry that there is no counterpart from the opposition, because counterpart Alexic spoke i.e. The proposal, which together with counterpart Alexic, signed the i.e. as a promoter and MOST, and we believe that, on behalf of the club, this is a serious topic and, of course, that me as a parliamentary representative and my colleagues is a disappointment that there are no parliamentary representatives, and so this proposal, as my colleague Alexic said, is actually going to give this post, these proposals that are constructive in favour of the amendments to the executive law, where we have 300,000 people, our fellow citizens who are under the roof, who are under that noose, whether these laws will be essentially this proposal whether it is utopian. So, has the parliamentary deputies decided in advance not to support this from the majority. I think that the majority here here, Mr. Simic, in front of HDZ, who is the only representative, I think that the majority of the tribals of these proposals would be heard and that the trial would really be conducted regardless of which political, where we belong, so whether it is normal for a lawyer, to take the services of the law offices in people, in the legal persons who have the ability to carry out the procedure themselves, means that the procedure is executive and initiated, where you would not have these costs of 1,000 kunas for making the executive, one paper that is essentially copied because the ham is known, so that it is charged by 1,000 kunas, as you said copying 30 kunas in the final procedure, 30 kunas delivery mail when on horse or donkeys ride so but fish 5 bales of hay, grass, so it's just literally one of our citizens who are literally one of our citizens who are in the problem and thus holding them by the neck and by no means are not released from the chain. I don't see the problem of why this proposal would be accepted that our legal persons who have the possibility and have most of not only banks, but also other legal persons in the Republic who run the water lines, the purity they have, why would they rent services when they have legal services. It's a simple process, simple paper, but this way you take this lawyer's service, but it goes to the burden of 300,000 of these or other, 300,000 people done or other people. And all of these suggestions that he's put on real estate so far with 20 are now 50, I don't see any problem that would take it. A colleague, Alexic, said that in amendments to the new law in the government that, 40 will be proposed, I see no reason why we would not put 40 right now if most of them decided. I would personally like it to be more than 50, which is why we wouldn't accept it here. Why? Because it was proposed by other clubs or colleagues, Alexic, who is here, but even Croatian, it was proposed by MOST in his amendments to the laws and amendments he had before, however it was not accepted, in a way that for 20,000 kunas this property was completed worth half a million kunas or million kunas. Therefore, I see no problem, unfortunately for changing the system in this Parliament, to change certain things such as the positive things all that my colleague Alexic has stated, that I am not repeating them now, but this is one of the most important questions of our fellow citizens, our accomplished, blocked, and I think that the triba this seriousness which is on behalf of the promoter has spoken to my colleague Alexic and who has warned this whole term, and as a club we have been giving laws, changes of the law similar, however, enough of these similarities, as well as proposed laws on the integrity of the CHF loan, where he has also cited certain judgments of European courts that are on the side of this proposal, I do not see any reason for this support of these judgments not to be accepted in this proposal. And if most people don't want to accept this then, they don't want to do it in this form, so let them give the amendments, I mean, here I believe that the amendments would be accepted and that a compromise would be found, and in order to make an amendment, we have to accept this in the first reading. So let's let this go in the first reading, tell your colleague Simic to pass by, and when this goes through in the second reading, we'll see some of the solutions that you've made, the suggestions that you've made through the amendments. I think that this way you can stop this monster called blocked, executed, who have been under the burden and chains of debt slavery which for years, as he said, has no statute of limitations here, simply always the work behind the neck, while in other cases there are statutes in other numerous cases, and in this there is no. Here are all the suggestions on behalf of the MOST Club, we accept this proposal as co-proposer i.e. together we have given support to this proposal, I expect that most of the HS will accept this proposal in the first reading, and that everything given as a proposal to amend this proposal will be respected. that we will find a compromise and that we will finally pass one law in the interest of our fellow citizens on a very important matter, a life issue, which is amendments to the Implementing Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145907	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Marko Šimic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145908	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all on behalf of the HDZ Club. In the next few minutes, I will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law, which is based on Article. 172. The Rules of Procedure of the HS President submitted to the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the HSS, by act of 23 March 2018. In the Republic of Croatia, in fact, until the amendment of the Rules of Procedure HS was not possible to place such a item on the agenda and determine... debates on this point or on the inclusion of some sort of plan and schedule of debates. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, we had claims by certain representatives that HS did not want to discuss and did not have to discuss the points of the agenda that were initiated by opposition representatives. Here we are today showing that this is not true and that this is not the case, and I am glad that this point has come to debate today just to deny these claims, but also to discuss one of the biggest problems that bothers Croatian citizens. In the Republic of Croatia, the executive procedure is governed by the provisions of the Implementing Law adopted in 1996, followed by a whole series of amendments to the law and the adoption of new Act on Execution. It is important to note that the development of the executive law in the Republic of Croatia is marked by the process of gradual dedilisation started to relieve courts and increase the efficiency of the operation. In fact, this procedure took place in 2005, since then, however, certain negativity has occurred as a consequence of this process, and this has led, therefore, to the process of gathering and discussing the transfer of original judicial powers to other bodies that need or should not have such powers based on the opinions of different legal experts. As one of the primary topics in the public, the issue of forced collection of claims has been raised for years, primarily through the problems of long-term blockades of citizens, as well as an expensive and inefficient system of enforcement. Although the problem we are considering today is often seen with the assumption of the conflict of interest of debtors and creditors, it must not be forgotten that the faster and cheaper and more transparent procedure ultimately represents the same interest of both debtors and creditors. The government of the Republic of Croatia has recognised the problem of completed and blocked and has been trying to solve it for some time through a set of measures. In this set, measures have already been taken before, so three sets of measures have already been taken before, which I will present shortly later, but I would like to say that the objective in everything was a faster, more efficient and cheaper procedure for citizens, to respect the name, the dignity of debtors, but also the rights of creditors with an emphasis on strengthening cooperation between stakeholders participating in the system of performance. It is also particularly important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already drawn up a proposal for a new Executive Act, and its outlines and presented to the public, of which I will list only some of the most important changes that I am sure will, in addition to these amendments that we have already made and have introduced into our legal system with two laws that we have amended and regulated, therefore, the area of the rights of creditors and debtors or blocked citizens, that they will get a very good result because what we have seen from these measures, these three measures that have been implemented so far, have won the result in figures. It is easiest to illustrate and describe that in 2017 there were 319, over 319,000 blocked, in 2018 after the implementation of these measures we have 50,000 blocked less, their debt amounted to almost 43 billion kuna in 2017, while in 2018 it is 25.34 billion less, which means 17 million and 17 billion and 620 million. In the first package of measures, there was a one-time write-off of debts made by the state, in the second package of measures, the package concerned one-off debt write-offs, not by the state but by the teleoperate and IT sectors, because in fact we have the largest number of citizens in charge, citizens who are blocked due to debts most often by teleopers, totaling 170,000 of our citizens. The third measure concerns a simple and accelerated process of consumer bankruptcy, and I hope that in the times and days to come, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be sure to find a solution with its own measures and therefore to reduce the number of blocked measures left after these measures have been taken. It is important to note that in the new Implementing Law the implementation of enforcement through the judicial system will actually become, that the court will become a general and regular body for the implementation of the mandate, so in, along with public notebooks and FINE. It is important to note that it will also place a focus on electronic communication, that the issue of detachments will be settled, that it will look differently at fiduciary rights, hence the transfer of ownership of the right. So here we can see from these outlines of the announced, announced amendments to the executive law that the government and how it takes care of blocked citizens, that only this government of the Republic of Croatia has actually taken certain measures to reduce their number and reduce their total debt. Following all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club cannot support this bill and we are waiting for the new Executive Law to come to our benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145909	I thank my colleague Simic. Final word on behalf of the applicant. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145910	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, otherwise, as you know, I don't read much when I'm out here at the pay phone, but I've now drawn up a little conclusion on the draft amendments to the executive law, so I'd say that with the help of the paper to all of you. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Implementing Law would, with further amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, be sufficient to significantly improve the situation of completed and blocked citizens over the next few years. Retroactive application of certain provisions would allow a large number of citizens to exit the system of enforcement and blockades immediately, while allowing others to solve the debt problem in the next few years. This would not harm the believers, but would only reduce their ability to make extra good money on debts de facto by making an eternal payment of tight interest. First of all, the question of already paid debts should be resolved retroactively in a way to see if the total amount that has been charged was already charged to the principal and at which point it was charged, and then the rest of the tight interest payments to be charged would run without any new tight interest. The proposals on the table are proposals for creation, not blind red tape. Bureaucracies should serve citizens, it should serve the Croatian people, because for that we are all paid for it we are all in some way bureaucracy. It is not our job to do just what we have to do, it is our job to be creative and to give our creative energy to the Croatian people. The proposals I made are very realistic, they are very real, they are in line with EU law, they are in line with a powerful collective court ruling in the Franak case and there is no reason not to accept the proposals. They are also compromiseable, and enable the wolf to be full and the sheep to be numbered, so that the creditors are fully charged, but at the same time to disable the enormous income on the debts, where both the believer and the lawyers and the public notebooks and the FINA and the state of VAT, and all on account of the debtor who is already in debt to the believer in the big problem, and then the debt is paid to him by enormous unnecessary costs. In such a way as to carry out the tasks of a man there is nothing left but to lift the anchor and leave the Republic of Croatia if he is young and healthy enough or to live here and spit on a system that does not allow him to breathe. Let's change that paradigm and finally try to understand that we are a sovereign and proud state that knows and can help the Croatian people who eventually brought us here and established our destiny. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I suggest that we accept the proposed amendments to the executive law, let it go to another reading, and by the second reading, we can all do it together a little bit, work to make it acceptable for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145911	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145912	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Alexic, of course, it would be minimum to smoke this law into a second reading and to see all these remarks made, that you would consider what HDZ has now accepted as the largest here. ruling. But here it is that the minimum, minimum energy, invested as much as they invested in lobbying, in the interest of citizens, how much they invested in lobbying the current minister to be the secretary of the European Council, that they invested so much to protect our citizens here. In this case, a minimum, it means 1% of this invested energy to go to everyone in order for someone to succeed in the European Council, which I don't think is even bad, but when it comes to our citizens, then it's not even 0.0001%. This is a matter of the lives of our citizens. Because she's not just the foreign minister, her interests and her private interests and her company and her husband who were supposed to be here in Croatia. However,... More importantly to Plenkovic, his minister and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145913	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. And my colleague Alexic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145914	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bulj, when I first came here to the Croatian Parliament, I imagined that both the authorities and the opposition should work together on solutions important to society. However, it was my heavy utopia, in my opinion, all those conflicts that exist between the authorities and the opposition should exist in a pre-election campaign before the elections. After the election when we come here, we should all work together to solve important social problems, as little shooting as possible, as much quality work together, and in this case Croatian citizens would recognise this high body as an important body. However, it is not so and at this point I can say that the Croatian Parliament serves nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145915	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the points of the agenda for today, we continue to work on Wednesday 3 July 2019 at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda Final draft of the Law on Confirmation of the Amendment and addition of the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport, Dangerous Waste and Disposal, second reading, P.Z. No. 652. Thank you and have a nice day. Session interrupted at 13.33 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-28-0.u145916	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Executive Act, first reading P.Z. Number 325. Proposers are the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGE and the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists and the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Implementing Law is not adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 77 for, 1 abstention and 32 against, that the conclusion has been reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. This brings us to the end of the discussion of clubs and independent representatives, so now we move to the agenda, firstly, - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport of Dangerous Waste and Postponing, second reading, P.Z. No. 652. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Based on the above-mentioned Article. 207a. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws on which international contracts are confirmed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are adopted as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, and now the proposer's representative will give us an additional explanation, respected Mile Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, please.
