ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135590	Mr. President of the Parliament, he's been taking the opportunity to ask you why you haven't put the CNB report back on the agenda since 2017. /Speaker disabled./... [[Invader President: Comrade Lovrinović, please sit down, get a warning, you are a misuse of your rules of procedure, please sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135591	I've answered you several times, please sit down, you've been warned. Moving to the agenda, the first item is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, first reading, P.Z. No. 573 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the first reading of the law, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would like to ask the respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Zarko Katic, to give an additional explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135592	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. You have before you the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. The law was passed in 2011 and has so far experienced several novels, the last of 2016. The law on police defines police as the central service of the Ministry of Interior, whose work has been arranged with numerous laws and other regulations. Some of these laws will have you on your benches for days to come, such as amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act or the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. On 31 December 2018, police were organised through 20 police departments and 182 police stations. Meanwhile, the amendments to the interior regulation, the number of police stations due to functional and other reasons, have been reduced by 4 so that it currently numbers 178 police stations. The total police work is carried out by 20 thousand 199 police officers and officials. Of which, the number on the clerks is 3 thousand 705 or 18.34%. From the report submitted by the Minister of the Interior on this home, you know that the number of police officers from year to year is increasing as well in this year's reception, we already have over 40% of women reported to, hopefully, future police officers. And here is finally on the amendments ahead of you, Article 1 of the Police Act, which provides to amend the provision on the obligation to report on police affairs, according to which the Minister of Interior is obliged to submit a written report on the conduct of police affairs at least once a year, and at the request of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and more frequently, on his request and on individual cases. Namely, it is proposed to amend this provision, in a way that, by 31 March at the latest, the Director-General of Police submits a written report on the work of the interior minister to whom he is responsible for his work under the applicable law, and the minister delivers this report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government is then obliged to deliver the police report by 1 June at the latest to the Croatian Parliament. In the proposed way, we believe that the prescribed way in which police work reports include data not only on police operations but also other relevant data on police work will be presented more clearly and transparently to this assembly. The equally proposed provision affects the authority of the Croatian Parliament's working bodies to request reports and data on the work of the Minister and his obligation to report questions and phenomena from the Ministry's section, submits a report on the enforcement and implementation of the law, provides information available to the Minister, etc., already according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The following major amendments are provided for in Articles 2 to 6 and as regards the amendment of the provisions of the applicable Police Act which are prescribed to file complaints in the case where a natural person considers that by acting or failing to act by a police officer or police officer in the application of police powers, his or her rights and freedoms have been violated. Under the current law, the establishment of a commission to work on complaints by police officers at the ministry's headquarters is envisaged, but one commission at a time in each of the 20 police administrations. Since not even after the publication of 2 public calls, enough candidates for the establishment or establishment of those committees have been registered, and they are not even established, the establishment of a committee with 12 members, 10 from the citizens' order, and 2 from the MUP order, which appoints and resolves the Croatian Assembly on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, which were proposed on the basis of a public call by civil society organisations, professional public organisations and other non-governmental organisations or have made themselves known on a public call. As a newspaper, a cash compensation is prescribed for members of the public's commission of 5% of the average net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year for each completed completed case. The Commission's working resources would be provided by regular funds for the division of the MUP. The newly proposed committee for the work on complaints would have narrowed its jurisdiction and would decide on complaints against a secondary decision by the ministry in cases where complaints were made by citizens. The commission would submit a report under these provisions, meaning the annual report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities of the Croatian Parliament. These provisions were, there was a broad and lively discussion on the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy of the Croatian Parliament and there we heard good proposals and we will consider some of them for sure and respect them in the preparation of the final bill. Under the current law, the chief police director, his deputies and assistants, police administration chiefs and police station chiefs are named for a period of 5 years. With this proposal of the law, therefore new, it is proposed to leave the police station chiefs out of the circle of persons appointed to the term of office of 5 years. Namely, the post of police station chief is set in the category of jobs of police officers, but in the sub-category of executives. In the classification of jobs of police officers, numerous jobs of police officers are classified in the sub-categories of senior executives than those in which, the designated jobs of police station chiefs are classified, and the perpetrators in those posts are not named for a term of office of 5 years. Implementation of the provision of Article 60(1) The police law in terms of the appointment of the police station chief for a period of 5 years has proved unsupervised in practice and is therefore proposed to exclude the police station chiefs from the circle of persons to whom they are designated for the prescribed five-year period. The next newspaper in the Police Act refers to the addition of a provision laying down the reasons for the resolution of the deputy and assistant chief of police and police chiefs before they are appointed. As a new reason for the resolution of those persons before the end of the term of office, the evaluation shall be satisfactory for the previous calendar year. In the proposed way, an assessment of the work of top police managers below the expected and professional level would also become a reason for their resolution before the end of the period to which they were appointed. In this respect, it will certainly be necessary to edit and elaborate the sublaw governing the evaluation of police officers after the proposed amendments and the addition of the Police Act are in force. This bill also proposes to amend the provision governing the transfer of police officers if necessary. According to the current provision of a police officer, where necessary, the service may be moved to a vacancy in the context of the acquired degree of education and personal police service in the same or other establishment unit in the same or second place of work. Exceptionally from this provision, a police officer may, if necessary, be transferred, but with his written consent, to a lower police post than the personal calling of the police officer concerned. According to this proposal for a law, a police officer may, if necessary, be transferred to a job where he or she fulfils the conditions under the acquired degree of education, taking into account his or her expertise, skills and abilities in the same or other establishment unit, but the exception to the transfer to the workplace of a lower police calling than a personal one, so the exception which has so far existed, where written consent by a police officer is requested to be deleted from these amendments of the law. In the case of the transfer of police officers, it has been observed that a valid provision requiring a police officer to be moved to a job in the context of an acquired degree of education and personal police service makes it impossible to move police officers to a significant extent, since every police officer can be moved to the workplace of his personal calling and, as a rule, there is no such job opening. It has been shown that a police officer cannot move to a job for which a lower police calling is prescribed than his own, even when it requires the needs of the service. Therefore, it is not possible to apply the institute without written consent of a police officer and thus to restrict the service's needs by means of the will of a police officer who is therefore given in the form of written consent, even though a police officer who is transferred to a job for which a lower calling is prescribed, shall exercise the right to a basic salary obtained at the workplace from which he is transferred if it is more favourable to him, of course. Furthermore, the current law stipulates that the vacancy of senior police officers other than the post of deputy and assistant chief of police and police administration chiefs is advertised through an internal ad and are filled with a transfer or schedule. In view of the difficult application in practice, this provision is amended and it is proposed to prescribe that, through an internal ad by relocate or schedule, the posts of leading police officers under the category of chief executive, except for the posts of deputy and assistant chief of police and police chiefs. This bill also proposes to introduce compensation for housing to police officers. The right to this fee would be given to a police officer deployed in a place of work that is more than 100 km away from his place of residence which has no settled housing issue and does not receive compensation for the costs of inter-urban transportation. Similarly, this right would be given to police officers whose place of work is on the island and the place of residence on land or other island or vice versa, regardless of distance. In fact, the practice has shown that in certain police administrations, it is primarily Dubrovnik-Neretva, Istria, Lika-Senian unsatisfactory filling of police officers' jobs with the domicile population with all the efforts of the ministry to try to change it through the promotion and knowledge of the work and activities of the police, therefore the need for students of the law enforcement course after completing the course, on the basis of a 5-year contract, is being deployed to police administrations where there are not enough domicillical police officers. Given the lack of reception and lack of accommodation capacity, especially during the duration of the tourist season, it is extremely difficult for police officers to organise and settle accommodation obligations. All of this, as well as the separation from family and place of residence, are important reasons why police officers, after the deadline has expired, insist on moving, therefore, in order to keep police officers in police administrations who have been deployed, fostering motivation for police service, meeting their social and family opportunities, are proposed to introduce this fee. It is estimated that the right to compensation would have up to 1500 police officers, so the funds for this purpose are provided for in the financial plan for 2019 and the 2020 and 2021 projections and for the Ministry's position, i.e. the division of the MUP for that purpose, were secured annually by 32 425 000 kuna. Here's the Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen MPs, I've made those basic emphasis amendments and additions to the Police Act, and I hope that in the debate and with your proposal we'll make an even more high-quality final draft of the law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135593	We've got 14 replicas. First up, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135594	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, the law is in the first reading and this is a serious law where it really needs to increase the rights of police officers, officials and tenants mainly in these areas in southern Croatia and Istria. And that should be discussed, their material status is bad, mostly police officers, but you are talking here about the report that, in this explanation, the report will be given by the minister at least once a year and Minister Bozinovic is neither coming to committees, it is the law on police, nor has he come here, which means that Minister Bozinovic would have to say, I am that the police are trained, prepared to protect the constitutional order and all the obligations that come out of the law, but not that one mayor has the right to abolish the freedom of speech and pressure on a journalist, that the police go to the mayor's order and to review them. That's why the minister should come here, not just the law on... That's where he brings it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135595	Thank you. The answer, eventually. Okay. Here you go, colleague of the Sagittarius.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135596	Thank you. My question was the same, which is why we don't have a interior minister here today, the law is about the police, and even when he's filed a request once a year, he's going to come in and file a report because maybe it's the only way we're going to see him here as well as on the parent board, not once before. My complaint is whether, in fact, my remark would you, at the Board of Appeals, abandon the work of police officers, as members of 2 obligations of those who come from the ranks of the police? It's a completely unusual practice, when we talk about it, that it's civil surveillance of the work of police officers and when we have the same kind of... A security intelligence control committee, where we don't have employees or SOAs inside, or VSOs or other intelligence services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, will you think about it, because this is something that is completely unusual and there are members of those who oversee being members of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135597	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135598	Dear Madam MPs, there... which you mentioned was also presented on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that it has a resonance, and probably, in the final draft of the law, we will reshape it and representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, we could only participate as professional assistance without the right to decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135599	Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135600	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2. these amendments and additions to the law, which relate to Article 2. 5. you have made certain changes, so so far other natural and legal persons have been able to refer the complaint to the commission, now only those who are deemed to have violated its rights. You're saying you're explaining that for some technical reasons, can you explain to me what these are technical reasons and in practice, why you're moving other natural and legal persons that have any irregularities at all, that's the first question. And the second question is the same about this commission, which means I'm interested in why, if a public complaint is taking place against that complaint committee, which is why it has to go through other instances, to come up with a commission to discuss. So if it goes through other facts, then it's simply filtered and the commission can't decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135601	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135602	As for the first part of your question, the police officer, of course, has a sensitive job and may happen to harm a certain human or civil rights person and therefore, these are strictly personal rights and it is difficult for the other person to file a quality complaint for someone else. So, the person to whom it happened, and to whom it happened, personally state what happened to her, she can, of course, ask for some help from another person, who can make it better, bring it out, but he himself has to bring out what happened to him. So, yes, but we're going to consider that observation for another reading. And as for the second part, if all the remarks, if the commission were to decide on all the observations, we hold that this would be, quite possibly, a considerable number of objections, logically that the system would do so before then.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135603	Thank you. My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135604	I thank the President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, and I am interested, which is why you consider a good change that refers to allowing police admissions to persons with a completed three-year-old school, not exclusively four-year-olds, as was the case in the current law?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135605	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135606	We've already pointed out that the number of candidates for police officers has dropped in recent years. Last year and this year we're doing a campaign to explain what a police service is and it's going to the field, so we've got a good inflow of candidates for now. We believe that three-year-old school is good enough. Namely, candidates for police officers pass a lot of rigorous tests and checks, from a written test, interviews, motor skills checks, psycho tests, a certain operational check on his dignity from performing this responsible task, and we think that even those who have completed their three-year occupation can run evenly, and whether they will be selected will show the contests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135607	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135608	President, Mr Katic, I am interested, after the adoption of this law, because it will be adopted, we know that there is a voting machine, which drives private, personal interests, I wonder whether in this law, which will pass, so whether you have solved this problem, whether the police will continue to legitimize journalists by order, people, managers by workplaces or perhaps by house, or if you have decided otherwise, that they must first rely on data, so we live in time when all data is available. Why am I telling you this? As a representative, I was in Lower Lomnica a month ago, there was a construction of an asphalt base, which is a danger to people's health, and we were at a rally, by the way, walking, so it's an environmental incident, and it's endangering health. I said something to these people as a representative, to the people who chose me, to me, to the police, to the only one, to legitimize me at the end of this whole story. Are we, are we going to the totalitarian state, where the police take over?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135609	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135610	Dear Mr. Representative, this law does not regulate the issue, it regulates the structure and work, the structure of police operations, but the government has proposed amendments to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, which will also be on this House for the next days according to your schedule, and there are also certain changes in police authority, determining the identity of persons, and we will discuss this, hopefully, very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135611	Comrade Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135612	The Honorable Chairman, Secretary of State. What I want to stress and what concerns me is that we do not stick to the planned year again, the adoption of legislation, etc., etc. Why does counseling take longer than it takes and what it means for you to say on your e-Consultation note, right? But what should be delivered in this law is that I do not see that there are any tendencies in terms of increasing and capacity and the independence of the police in the direction of the investigation procedure where I think we should go and especially, which is extremely important, should go in the direction of the demarcation of the border police. You don't recognize it here, so we've talked about it before. Border police as a separate structure, as we are expected by the EU bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135613	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135614	As I said earlier, changes and other laws are being prepared. First of all, the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, but some of these topics you mentioned, should be amended by other laws, such as the Law on Criminal Procedure or the Law on Border Police. So, state border surveillance, which is the law that regulates police work in the state border surveillance and control segment. They'll be joining us soon. Otherwise, they are working and are already preparing for the full amendments to this law that will be in front of HS by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135615	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135616	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I was wondering if it was necessary for the police to identify journalist Djurdzica Klancir at her post, given that she had not previously made an identification in the system and that she had not made an identification at her home address, and a team before, because there is only one Đurjica Klancir in the Republic of Croatia and there is really no need for any identification, she is a public person and she is well known to everyone. Some legal experts say that in this way, not only did you violate the law of the Republic of Croatia but the Constitution itself, and I am interested in how in this context you comment on the request of the Police Trade Union that Chief Director Nikola Milina resign immediately, since he himself acted beyond the applicable Police Officers' Rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135617	Answer, please. In the end, good. Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135618	Your Honorable Secretary of State, your 20,199 record and the observation that this increase in police officers is not correct. If I have to, I can give you the numbers. So it's not the number that's growing, it's the fall. As far as other matters are concerned, why would they change an article? 4th report by the minister in other cases, best not to change that. This is how we came into the situation that there is indeed a word written about his possibility, further answers, to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and there is no situation in which this should be taken into account, but it should remain well written as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135619	Would you like some?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135620	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'd just like to say that, if I hadn't said that the number of police officers is increasing. I put out the numbers, the number of police officers, and I didn't say that the number was increasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135621	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135622	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Too bad there is no minister, but this law is definitely going to move as many police officers as possible to join HDZ and have HDZ's card because the law makes it very clear that someone can be moved as needed, that there are no criteria that would indicate that someone can work and continue at the workplace because he is capable and what he knows rather than being good with his superior. You have the same thing with the police station chief, you have the leadership structures. Instead of the law, you decided to know when a structure is coming in the MUP, that these and those positions are variable, in this way you create the dependence of these personnel on your superiors, or on politics. Obviously, the cops are gonna need it. to become a mass member of HDZ. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135623	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135624	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I believe you know that police officers are not allowed to be members of political parties, and even less, of course, it is allowed to act politically and engage in police and police services. The government and the MUP will work hard to depolitise police work without professionalising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135625	Comrade Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135626	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My replica goes in the direction of the commission, so the provisions you put in place, and as far as the Committee of Civil Control is concerned, there will be two representatives of the ministry. You're already in this, I think in response to the replica of my colleague, you said that there would be some changes, which I certainly welcome because only a commission by its name must indeed be independent and remain completely independent when it comes to complaints about police conduct. However, I didn’t like it, and I don’t think I can accept that it will be any of the ministries, or even in the ministry, or in some way professional counselling or something because I don’t see any reason. We have to take care of that because there were no examples, so cops are like all other people, so they're susceptible and they're different things, and so are they. covering up the bad actions of some of your colleagues [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Especially in the case of domestic violence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135627	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135628	Respect, ma'am. MPs. Yes, I have already responded to the respected representatives of Strenja Linic that we have discussed the comments made on the committee, on the parent board, therefore, for national security and internal policy and that we will try to amend some parts, therefore, of the provisions concerning the work of the commission, and so on the membership of the representatives of the MUP. When I said that they would provide certain professional services or professional assistance, I meant the preparation of material for committee meetings, hardly that outsiders themselves could do so, so there will be no members of the commission at all, it will do the professional services of the MUP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135629	My fellow Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135630	Thank you, President HS, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, the Police Act was passed in 2011, these are the seventh amendments and additions, which means that on average we change it once a year or supplement it. These changes foreseen by these amendments and additions go in order for the system to be as fast and quality as possible, of course I welcome this, and that the system can respond to the challenges as best as possible, the security challenges are indeed, to say the interesting thing remains the crisis with migrants, organised crime is increasingly innovative, and among other things we have one last major drug confiscation in Varazdin of half a ton. Therefore, in addition to these amendments and additions, work needs to be improved, as well as training and equipment of police officers, just in one part of this law. Modifications and Supplements They're heading that way. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135631	There's no answer, so let's go to the 12th line, Col. Skoric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135632	Thank you, dearly respected President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the State Secretary, in any case you have said in your accent what are the key elements of the amendment of this law, we have not had on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security one very constructive content debate where we have given certain observations and suggestions and by your rapporteur in essence, as far as I understand, until the second reading a lot of these things will be resolved, primarily related to survival in the regulation and reports on individual cases, and this also related to regulation on the work of the commission on complaints from police officers where these remarks are respected and concerning decisions in the case will not be made, will take place consisting of 3 members, where one police officer, will already be brought to the level of commission and a number of other things which I believe will enter into the amendments of the law so that until the second reading, I believe that we will have all these things agreed and that we will have to have to have one of three members. The law. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135633	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135634	Mr. MP, in general, there have been speeches made about the institution of the Board of Appeals a year ago at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, therefore, with the knowledge of that Committee, amendments and additions have been made, but here are the remarks made at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security are very good quality and we believe that one part of them can be respected, and so on the preparation of work, preparation in the councils, and decision-making at the committee's very session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135635	Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135636	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Katic, every day a large number of police officers leave the service and a large part of them not only leave the service, but leave the Republic of Croatia. The reason is poor wages and poor working conditions. So, instead of fixing them, raising people's wages and fixing their working conditions, you're doing this law to lower the admission criteria to the state service or lower the criteria for people to become cops and do it backwards. I appeal to you to give up the criteria of police admission until the second reading, but to raise people's wages and fix their working conditions, so you will solve this problem, not this way you propose. Secondly, police station chiefs and administrations are elected today by an internal tender where candidates pass certain tests and the best of them are appointed. And you're making us this proposal where the minister is going to make a political decree to appoint the police chiefs back in 66th after the hearing of Tito-Rankovic when the party appointed police leaders, that's what you're doing today with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135637	Thank you. You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135638	Mr. Representative, you've misread it, so there's still an internal ad for police station chiefs, only they don't call themselves a 5-year term, that's the difference. I agree that we should work to increase the position, material position of police officers and through wages and through working conditions, and this government is working on it and has already increased the salaries of the lowest paid categories of police officers, and we are daily improving the quality of work through the supply of equipment and by improving the working conditions in our administrations and stations, we will continue to do so within the framework of available financial resources, but the quality of police work and their material position is high on the list of priorities of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135639	And the last replica of a esteemed colleague, Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135640	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, exactly the opposite of what we should be doing, you do. So, our officers go after bread in the EU for jobs that are three or four times more paid than in the Republic of Croatia, they have to work as construction workers, as drivers, instead of increasing the material status of our officers, you put the main emphasis here on political staffing in politics. So, under the company of professionalism, you're doing well, you're not doing well, you're going to see if a local HDZ officer has succeeded in ordering the chief of police to come and interview a journalist at work. It will be a criterion whether someone is successful or not. Tell me, Mr. Secretary of State, if this person who apparently spoke to Mr. Zinic from the Sisak-Moslavina County to legitimize Djurdja Klancir, whether he was professionally doing the job or not. Is she successful? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Chief of Police or not? [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Maras]] Please give me that answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135642	Dear Mr. Representative, this law, the Police Act, we are discussing it, to remind you, edits the basics of the police organisation and the specificity of the working position of police officers in the MUP, and this is a proposal of these changes, so that they are advanced by police organisations and the employment position of police officers. Their material position, of course, is a serious issue, but it will deal with other measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135643	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Choose a colleague Ostojić on behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135644	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at its 50th session, the 50th session without the presence of the Minister of Interior, held on 13 March 2019, discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act in the first reading. It is not often that we report to the committee in the assembly, but I think it has been mentioned very often today, so I think it is important that I, as chairman of the committee, present the views of the members and members of the committee from that session. The promoter stated that the amendments to the provisions governing the obligation of the Minister of Interior to the Croatian Parliament in relation to the submission of the annual report were made, which is precisely the fact that there is one possibility and that the minister does not have any further obligation to report on police work in other cases. There is no need to delete it and that was the main topic actually related to the amendment to Article 4. As for the establishment of a commission that should have 12 members, 10 representatives of the citizens and 2 representatives of the ministry, to which most committee members reacted exactly in a way that police officers should not be on the board and that is kind of accepted. I hope that the secretary of state and you know that he is a representative of the proposings and said in principle that he accepts just such an amendment, which is that police officers would not be full members of the commission, so that they would have an odd number and that there would be a situation if they did not happen to decide either to be the majority or to be a language on the scale of certain decisions that the commission would make. Also, the issue of expressing a position on the commission, I think it was both impartiality and objectivity in decision-making, not touching the possibility of, of course, the MUP to ensure the commission quality of work exactly in a way that police officers will be the ones who will assist them professionally, but not in decision-making. It is also welcomed to introduce a fee for the work of members of the commission, as it should motivate citizens to participate in the commission and to establish functional civilian surveillance over police work. The provision of compensation in such a way that the amount of compensation depends on the number of cases solved can lead to the submission of false applications and superficial treatment in cases with a view to increasing the amount of compensation. For this reason, the majority of the members of the board had just considered that the proposed 5% of the average net salary could not be a solution but should be settled by a fixed amount at the part of the budget relating to the MUP rather than in a way that actually depended on how much they had, received or solved the cases. In the event that such a supply obligation is removed, in fact, the situation in which you receive complaints is the possibility of inflation of a larger number, and this would not be in line with the objective of which the commission is formed. Also, in the event that the obligation to obtain a written consent of a police officer and to move it to a lower position than the personal calling of an officer, part of the staff has just stated that this is not appropriate, however, I must say that some of the other members considered that this does not exist in other systems and that police services should not have a different status than other civil servants. They welcome the introduction of legal compensation for housing to police officers deployed in a place of work that is more than 100 km from the place of residence and police officers who are the place of work on an island where they do not have a place of residence, since this proposal is aimed at addressing the existential needs of police officers and encouraging interest in police service work. Some members of the board also stated that lowering the conditions for admission to police service at the level of a three-year school would lead to further degradation of the profession and police service and indicated that this is contrary to European views. In view of the number of outstanding complaints which were actually held by the Commission from 2014 to today, about 400 cases were requested to determine in the transitional and final provisions the way in which they were handled. I would also like to point out that it was necessary to consider the written letter of the Committee of 28 February 2018 when the Committee first participated in the debate on the Police Act, unfortunately no proposal was accepted at that time, so I hope that now these sentences are being made, and this is that it will eventually come to the adoption of certain proposals from the Committee. And finally with 7 votes in favour and 6 votes against the board, he proposed adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135645	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, first reading, P.Z. Number 573. In front of SDP MPs' club, Col. Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135646	I thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in principle I will say, and I will only take advantage of the opportunity to discuss it with the board, so there is no need to repeat that part of the remarks made by the board members, of course, because I think they were well-founded proposals. I will first refer to Article 10. here is a proposal to change the conditions for entry into the police department referred to in Article 47(2), thus allowing the police to be, the police may be admitted to the police by a person with completed secondary school in a three-year period, I must say that both a mere explanation and everything else mentioned in this law is definitely the degradation of the profession and cannot be justified by the fact that the interest in police work is reduced. In 2012, there were 10,000 candidates at 330 places for schooling for officers or police officers, today 650 seats, there are not so many applications. What happened in the meantime? Now, we can discuss this, but the fact next is that the interest in police work, given the situation that has been observed here by a part of the colleagues, is precisely talking about that it will not only be solved by measures of competition or promotion, but also by the conditions that police officers should have. Today being a police officer is not easy, given that the weight of the problem faced, the issue of border problems, the problems of handling themselves and the relationship of their managers towards them, leads to the fact that they really must be educated and well-trained for all types of work being done, but this topic will soon be on the agenda, given that the following amendments and the Law on Police Affairs and Powers are taking place, and I would remind you that this article 10, which solves the status of police officers, I think it is only a matter of finding a wish and that such persons who are being admitted to police with three years of schooling mean a step backwards and with regard to the expertise of police officers. A Croatian police officer should compete with those in the EU. In this way, the waist is degraded and demoted. This is a situation where the police system would be brought into the police system by people whose career development would be disabled in advance, and that is what I want to stress. The proposal is not in line with European standards, focused on lifelong education, career development, and the creation of police officers trained from the very beginning to the level of first-graders. I think it really needs to change, and that change that you have stated, it's practical, probably from a situation that hasn't been realised so far, and a regulation that exists for years, which would allow to reduce the pressure on certain jobs that police officers have to do at the moment to a situation that one third of the composition, meaning that a circus of 7300 police officers and officials may be engaged, or in the reserve police, then there would be no problem with the costs of their accommodation, would work in the places where they live. They'd be in a situation where they could do extra jobs that would be much simpler at the time. Their salary would be 90% of the average salary, it all says in the regulation, and they receive it when they are not in reserve, or when they are not hired by the chief of police, then they receive 10% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. I would point out that it is necessary, I mean, I have some signals and I hear that you will eventually go back to certain changes, but I think that's how the problem could be solved, which is that to the officers who have finished schooling, who have all the expensive and authorization and passed, it's very important to provide them with a normal way to function, work, and not in this way that this is actually, reducing the criteria trying to solve. As far as art is concerned. 17. where a change in the terms of the transfer of a police officer, as required by the service, is proposed, which is prescribed. 72.St. 1 and in such a way that a police officer could be moved to the workplace independently of his police calling and erasing Article 3 of this article, or a provision which stipulates that a police officer may be transferred to a lower position than the base office only with written consent and that, in the future, regardless of his basic police calling, a police officer may be transferred to the lowest rank of his degree of education. The proposal for this provision is to destroy the police service as a career service. Absolutely a knife to the heart of the best European practices. This is absolutely the opposite, if you won't listen to what I'm telling you now, it says in the Commission's view and the European Commissioner covering European affairs regarding the attempt to amend the 2012 Police Act, it is very precisely written that the law adopted in 2011 in terms of resolving the status of police officers cannot be changed and that it is contrary to European practice, directives and that it will not allow such a thing. I'm surprised you dared to go to such a variant, but well, this is purely political transfer, in which you move to a lower-ranking police officer regardless of his basic calling. This is a failure to respect the police calling system and it actually loses every sense and is contrary to all the strategies, with all the guidelines, the EU's recommendations on police professionalisation. Specifies... how the amendments to the provisions in force are necessary because a police officer can be moved to the workplace of his basic title, and as a rule there are no such jobs and the content of the reasons for this decision are at least embarrassing and suggest a perfect intention of putting the police into office as political elites. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, amending the new provision, the right to retain the salary of a police officer transferred as needed, would gain new importance. Namely, since even the lowest ranking jobs a police officer could move without consent, regardless of what police calling he has, the right to keep his salary to a police officer would no longer be a rare exception but a rule. And that in the system that actually gets paid for a job that doesn't work, here, you see, that's the situation that's foreseen by this law. I would also like to emphasise on behalf of the SDP Club that it is important to say that I am the Law on Police and its amendments, which are numbered, reasoned in this section, will be much more important to the segment relating to the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. However, these amendments to the Law on Police, which are allegedly trying to improve the situation, I think they are very perfiduous and through art. 4, after the Home Secretary's report was removed from this Chamber after it was no longer held at the plenary session, it only goes to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Now there would be a situation if we didn't have any more reports written by the minister. We can see him here not rarely, but the situation is that I recently cited 50 sessions of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Safety of the Parent Working Body did not appear. I also want to say that the inconsistency of this story speaks of February 8, 2018. when the committee debated at a time when there was a working group to draft this proposal, it means that there is more than a year, and you have not accepted any single proposal from the parent board, not a single proposal. As for what I finally want to say, which is that I don't trust myself or we're not in a situation where we can believe that you'll suddenly accept these situations, so we've kept our restraint against the board because you can't trust those who promise to respect the comments, especially the parent board, then there's a situation that doesn't happen in any single sentence. In the discussion of the law itself and all those remarks made and by the order of the Ombudsman from the associations and other parts of the interested public, I see that, in fact, the variant is the following, you can write as much as you want, we will not change anything and with this law we will go further, and that you will forget that there is someone who, for sure, this law with this way you have predicted it, I would recommend that you, between the two readings, ask for the opinion of the European Commission, since you may not believe me to write already in the material that has been sent. This material exists, it states that the law that was passed in 2011. on career progress, on an internal competition, on a system that must be done, done together with the EU and a prerequisite for EU entry, certainly cannot pass. Therefore, we will remain in a situation that unfortunately we cannot trust. One more thing he'd say, it's been in this HS since 2002. When the situation began with the Home Secretary's report on police affairs, etc., unfortunately, I was the only one four times defending this report and that's something I ask you to say that it can no longer be done by someone else instead of the Minister of the Interior at least once a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135647	Thank you, too. We continue with discussions on behalf of the club of MPs, following is colleague Krešo Beljak, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, please welcome colleague Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135648	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, we at the Club of Parliamentary Representatives of the HSS and Democrats are wondering what this bill is, in any case, why this law, why these changes, again of staffing instead of working on police depolitisation as an institution, are working on new politicisation. Once again politics interferes in the profession, but that's nothing new, it's just further degradation of what's been done by the police in the last 30 years. What the police represent and what must be in every normal state, and we in the Republic of Croatia claim that the Republic of Croatia is a normal state, even though HDZ is working hard to avoid being a normal state, even on this example. Police must be a pillar of society, must be the protector of constitutional order and law. A police officer is the protector of the state. We have examples from the highly developed and most developed countries in the world where a police officer makes an obvious mistake that doesn't get sanctioned because the court says, one supreme instance, the court says the state can't make a mistake, so if a police officer represents the state, then even a cop can't make a mistake. For what? An example of certain things that happened in the United States, so they escalated through various protests, riots against the police, what happened? The state has stepped into the protection of a police officer in the way a police officer protects and represents the state. At our place, as Mr Ostojić said, there is no longer any interest in going to the police, however, they call me, and I believe many of our colleagues from the Police Union and ordinary police officers and say that there is no longer any chronic lack of labour force, and not only that, but quickly and police officers are resigning, leaving, preparing suitcases and leaving our homeland, and going abroad for better paid, often and much worse jobs than they do with us. The police officer is extremely low-paid in our country, and what's even worse, there's absolutely no authority, the state took his authority, and it can happen that everyone, but everyone in this country, does what they want, that a police officer has to fear his reactions so he doesn't get sanctioned, and then there's a number of failures, a number of negative selections of personnel at all levels, and the most negative selection of police personnel happens precisely at the highest level compared to the level that you want to further politicise and deregulate with this law. While police officers have low wages, no authority, they often tell me from the tourist's most developed parts of the Republic of Croatia that the salary of a policeman is not enough for monthly accommodation, an example from Dubrovnik or some islands, that these officers will do their job when they have no place to sleep or accommodation costs them or would cost them more than they earn a month's salary. We had an example just a few days ago of a young cop being killed, accidentally from Samobor, so I'm making that example, but it could have been anyone who, you know, was coming home from work from Vinkovci. Mr. Secretary of State, a cop came home from work when he died. Do you think it's normal for a man to live in Samobor and work in Vinkovci? A man died, left little children behind, 32 years old, only because of a bad police organization, or because of you. You have to be aware of that. These are the terms for the work you run for a Croatian police officer. What happens at the border towards the BIH, this daily bombing of a Croatian police officer, underpaid, with no conditions, by the media, by NGOs, I do not know, whose all sides, this is a blow to the Croatian state, not to the Croatian police officer, but to the Croatian state, and also to the Croatian state, you must be aware of it. So please demand them, release the political personnel, let you have the police chief under control, who tomorrow will legitimize the journalist who wrote against his political patron in the party. You're dealing with this stuff? We do have a problem at the border of Croatia and BiH, a daily blow, therefore, on all sides, of all possible government and NGOs, and I do not know what institutions to work on Croatian police officers. And then no wonder, when you have that, that cops get killed, because they have to come back at 3:00 in the morning, they have to go back six miles or what, or I don't know how far from work at home. You have a situation where they're being bribed, where their authority is absolutely compromised, and then they don't have to be surprised, which, not that nobody's going to go to the police, but the existing cops are resigning, resigning, buying suitcases and leaving this country. It is said to be bad if the state becomes police, unfortunately, Croatia is not a police state, or fortunately not a police state, but it would be good if we were just a police state. We and this bill of law are increasingly turning into an Orban state, a country where politics controls absolutely everything and it's just not good. Let the profession say its own, protect the dignity and rights of an ordinary policeman, punish the police officer, double if it goes in and triple the amount, for any crime or offence committed against other citizens of the Republic, let the officer of Croatia be an example of his conduct, but therefore should be adequately rewarded, and in that case there will finally be a positive selection of personnel within the service itself of the lowest director, so that by these now, by political appointed, top police officials, police authorities, and we will have a state in which a police officer, not only is he well paid, but he should have at least 10,000 kn wages and other terms, but he has authority, so that he can do what his primary goal is to preserve the laws and constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, but also preserve the security and property of all citizens and citizens of our country. Thank you very much, and I hope that by the second reading of the law, you will think a little bit about what we've been saying and that you will appreciate the remarks that we have made from the HSS Club and the Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135649	Thank you. We continue with discussions on behalf of the Club of Representatives, next is counterpart Miroslav Tudjman, in front of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, please welcome colleague Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In fact, we have before us the sixth amendment to this law, which was passed in 2011 and here we should perhaps comment on all these amendments that are stipulated by law, but allow me to remain on those most important and must apologize in advance, which I will repeat some things, which have already been said, but given that we are presenting the views of the clubs here, then I think it is necessary to know what attitudes are, what are the positions of the HDZ,... Today here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bill provides for an amendment to the provisions on the submission of a police report in the Croatian Parliament, in such a way that the Director-General of the Police is to submit a written report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 31 March at the latest, after which the government would submit the report to the Croatian Parliament no later than 1 June. However, with these formulations, it remains unclear who will present the report in the Croatian Parliament, Minister or Chief Director of Police? We remember that while Mr Ostojic was a minister, he advocated that it should be submitted to the police director. It was also on other occasions these years she was also... By proposal of the law, the provision of an article shall be amended. 4. the current Law on Police, which stipulates that the Minister of Home Affairs is obliged to the Committee on Interior and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, shall submit a written report on the conduct of the police work at least once a year, and at the request of the Committee more often. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposer, however, is of the opinion that the proposed provision does not affect the powers of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, to request reports and data from the minister and his obligation to supply the information he has available, as the applicant already considers it established to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal was left out of the law, the bill leaves out the specific responsibility of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, its responsibility for parliamentary oversight, which is not in line with practice, but with the democratic standards achieved, and therefore the provision of the applicable law on the obligation to leave out the report on police work and the IAP should be left behind. What is not mentioned here in these amendments to the law does not define the responsibility of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, nor for security in the work of the former State Protection and Rescue Administration, and we know that by amending the law, the former state administration became part of the administration within the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and until this amendment of the law, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, is regularly discussing its annual, plans, reports, in this relevant Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. These amendments do not provide that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security shall have insight into the plans and programmes of the Protection and Rescue Administration, i.e. civil protection, which is new to the Ministry and not the police. That should be specified by second reading. There is something that has not been provided for in these legal provisions so far, which is to be based on these bilateral agreements with a number of countries, on data exchange, on personal data exchange between individual countries, or on the police, to be reported on competent parliamentary bodies, or on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, but I believe that this can become a problem in the future, because part of this data is intended to be deleted after a certain number of years, and if this is not consistently applied, we may have problems, or individuals may have problems, if not in a certain, adequate manner, not having the right to see these data, or the fate of that data. Adhering to the Police Law, it envisions, the further establishment of a commission to work on complaints of police officers' work, at the headquarters of the ministry, and a commission for every police administration. Since no sufficient number of candidates for the formation of the 21st commission have been reported on 2 public calls and have not been established under the current provisions, it is proposed to establish 1 commission, with 12 members and 10 representatives of the citizens and 2 representatives of the ministry. 10 members would be elected under the proposal of the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, based on a public tender, candidates can submit civil society organisations, professional public organisations, NGOs or individuals to a personal application. First, we believe that a profession is included in the selection process for members of the commission, and that candidates can also propose associations of retired police officers or individuals, former members of the system. Secondly, there is no need to appoint police officers in the commission, whose primary function is civil or civilian surveillance. Thirdly, it would be logical, based on the established democratic practice, that the commission has an odd number of members, possibly 11. Fourthly, the legislative proposal that a three-member council, composed of members of the commission, make a final decision on the complaint, should be amended, whether the Commission alone makes final decisions or that the decisions of the three-member council, which are not unanimously taken, are taken into the final commission. As a newspaper, a cash fee is attributed to members of the commission of 5% of the average net salary paid in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year, and to travel expenses for arrival and attending meetings. And here we should... certain changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, it is necessary to support the proposal on the establishment of a flat-rate fee, for the work of the members of the commission, and not according to the number of cases held, the second should equalise the fees for the work of members of different committees or councils, and similar to that of their work. Let's say the work for the councils of civil oversight and reporting services, according to its composition and function, is similar to that, therefore, to the members of these committees, i.e. the councils should have the same compensation. Thirdly, fees for the work of the commission, for work on complaints, should be planned in the budget for the Croatian Parliament, not in the budget for the MUP as foreseen, because just because the commission, it forms the Croatian Parliament and the fact that it is financed from the Croatian Parliament budget, is second, but if it is financed from the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. It is necessary to welcome the proposal to introduce housing fees for police officers deployed to a place of work, which is more than 100 km from their place of residence, as well as those of the officials who have the place of work on the island and the place of residence on the mainland or on another island. Here it should only be possible to extend this argument, that it is not only because of the lack of interest of the host population, but rather to ensure the existence and decent life of the employees in the environments they are placed in, and that they can pay rents from these additional funds, because this is not possible from their personal incomes. Under the applicable law, it is prescribed that a police officer, cannot be moved to the workplace, for which a lower police calling is prescribed than his personal calling, even when it requires the needs of the service. The bill proposes the possibility of such a transfer without the consent of officials, but with the right to retain a new one, retaining the basic salary of the post from which it was transferred, adding to the police calling of officials. For such a proposal, the argument is that there are a number of high-ranking police officers in the system, and according to systematization, there is no need for so many employees in these titles. One illogical solution, officials will be deployed to a lower job with a salary in their higher calling, in the long term may result in accumulation of negative effects. We believe that up to another reading all possible options and their effects on the system of human relations in the system need to be assessed in order to propose a long-term sustainable solution. Deputy Chief of Police and Chiefs of Police Administration are named 5. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 61. As a reason for their resolution before the deadline on which they are appointed, the assessment may be satisfactory for work in the previous calendar year. The following explanation would also be proposed to assess the work of the highest police executives below the expected and professional level as a reason for their resolution before the end of the period to which they were appointed. The legal possibility of a man being relieved of his duties because he has received an evaluation is satisfactory, perhaps legally interpreted as having such a provision in the law, but it is Semanticly illogical. Such an assessment may have an excuse first, if the plan, the annual plan and the work programme define excellence as the goal of achieving satisfactory results, is not, and the achievement of satisfactory results is not an acceptable assessment. Secondly, if the assessment meets the criteria for resolution, then it must be applied without exception to both the deputy chief of police and all other chiefs of police administrations who have received the assessment satisfied, and not just some. If that provision is not specified in this way, it may be a means of discriminatory, staff policy. The people admitted to police must meet a series of conditions, one which has already been said that those who have completed high school in a three-year period, not in a four-year period, can also be admitted to work. However, I think we should also change the course. 7 of this Article. 47th, which says it cannot be accepted, that the candidate will not be accepted if he is a member of a political party, I think that there can be no reason for discrimination on the part of the party's membership in employment, however, this article should be redesigned in such a way that the person who is a member of a party must freeze his membership by joining the MUP. What might still have to be said here in the end and what should be welcomed, the insistence of a specialist study of crime, i.e. that the long-term goal is to make vertical progress to the highest academic degrees at the university level, which is defined by art. 88. However, I think that this, in a way, provision in this article, High Police School conducts scientific research work for the purposes of the ministry, is not sufficiently precise, it should be said that the Higher Police School conducts scientific research work in the scientific field of criminalism and public security, and that for the purposes of the ministry it is implicitly contained but in the fact that the founder in all these bodies that adopt annual programmes, so that it is implicitly contained, and this is more appropriate to this formulation if it is about scientific interests and orientation of the High School of Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135651	Thank you. We continue the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the next colleague Dragana Jeckov is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135652	Thank you, Vice President HS. d. Secretary of State with an associate, here we have, therefore, already during this debate several times heard the most significant changes and additions to this law. I have come up with some of the most important topics, but as some of them are already spoken, so I'm going to skip the same thing, so as to refer to the chief police director who submits to 31.3. the written report on the work of the police and the minister and the subject of the complaint, I'm just going to say briefly that I believe that the control of police work is extremely important for the citizens, but also for the police, because only quality control can ensure effective and quality police work, so it is a good practice to monitor because, therefore, standards are raised in police work, respect for the rule of law and human rights in police conduct, public confidence in police work, quality of the system of responsibility of police officers and effective legal means for those who are victims of illegality in police conduct. There will also be greater openness and understanding towards police by citizens. Also a few words relating to the fee, a cash fee, whose introduction I also welcome, because it was unrealistic to expect that someone would invest their knowledge and time nowadays, and also money, so for the honorary performance of the commission's duties and membership, the member of the commission, therefore, it was more than optimistic to expect that the commission had not done its work so far, so it was clear, because after being formed and started working in 2013 in the 2 years of work, in fact, of the 571 items received, it solved 89, which is therefore some 16%, so very little and certainly no purpose was achieved. What I want to point out for sure is the fact that I already said something about at the beginning, so this bill wants to allow a person with a completed three-year-old school rather than a four-year-old as it has been. I also believe that this decision should be examined whether it is actually good because this change in the state service is approached by persons who have a three-year schooling programme, it should be pointed out that most three-year schooling is actually about vocational schools with an extremely smaller general content of teaching and increased practical work. It should be taken into account that such vocational schools are currently enrolled by students of a weaker average who do not actually have the option, some great choice of profession, and certainly that the police system needs to take care of the reputation and quality of the staff that would be received in the future in the ministry. Surely it is necessary to work on the quality of the system, to increase wages because in this way the system will actually be sustainable. It will not be avoided by people who are dissatisfied and with the admission of students with three years of vocational education, in fact by introducing them into the system when they become authorized persons and begin to work, when they see the state of things, they will certainly not be kept by it, and again we come to that vicious circle whether they will actually stay in that system. We welcome the change regarding higher education at the Higher Police School as well as the introduction of housing fees, I also have a friend who has traveled from Vukovar to Zagreb for over a year and a half. When I asked her so well, is it normal, why do you do it, she replied to me that it was the only way to get a move because she had to imagine, no family, so wait for how you don't have, I know that you have a family, so that but I'm not married, I don't have a child, so it's also one of the practices that needs to be changed, which is certainly not good, by the way, be it said, she has achieved her intention, she has been traveling so for a year and a half from Vukovar to Zagreb she has managed to get a transfer and that's whether, something she admits you'll certainly not a good example, but here it proves how well these people in the system are aware, how much they actually want to do their job seriously and responsibly. In addition, one thing I would like to suggest is that Article 24 of the Law, which provides for one of the penalties in force for the most severe violation of official duty, therefore it is prescribed to move to another place of work the same or lower complexity of jobs at a time of 2 to 4 years. This new text now states that the transfer to another workplace is the same or lower complexity of the same degree of education but this time, without any limitation of the sentence mentioned from 2 to 4 years as it has been so far. Therefore, the penalty produces lasting consequences which should not be the purpose of punishment unless it comes to the termination of the state service. Here's something I certainly think should be considered in the second reading. I would like to say a few words about being admitted to the police, so in addition to stating the conditions on which I am not now, we have one institute of dignity, and so it is said that it is not a worthy person who is legally convicted of a criminal offence committed out of kindness or dishonest initiatives and an offence against public order and peace. I believe that the existence of a powerful judicial verdict both criminal and criminal for acts of domestic violence should certainly be explicitly prescribed as an absolute obstacle to police entry in this particular police law. Not that it is decided from case to case on the basis of a sublegal act, since the offences in the area of domestic violence should not in any way go beyond or particularly during reception in the police service and should not be less significant or less dangerous than the violations against public order and peace with characteristics of violence such as. fighting or fighting in a public place. So what should be represented for sure is a zero-tolerance policy on violence against women and in the family, which means that, apart from the fact that the perpetrators of domestic violence should be exposed to the strictest judicial sanctions, a clear social message on the absolute inadmissibility of any form of domestic violence should be sent at the same time. Therefore, the above important role is played by police officers and officials who, through their work and conduct, need to represent positive examples, and it certainly excludes any court rulings that would be convicted of criminal offences or other offences, especially from the area of domestic violence. And the last thing I want to particularly apostrophe, which is the trend of reducing the share of employees of the Serb community, was seen in the MUP, so back in the 10th century. That percentage fell from 3.13 to 2.5, so we have a significant reduction, we have a significant reduction in Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County regardless of the specific provisions of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The sub-representation is also obvious according to the 2011-2017 data, so the total share of members of the national minorities in these two counties is also felt and also reduced, so from this pay phone, who knows which time, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I will present what the Ombudsman is very often talking about and warning, therefore, on the need for a proportionate representation of members of the national minorities, as well as members of the Serb national minority and to take account of the provisions of the Erdutian Agreement or the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I hope that these proposed and proposed changes, remarks and changes will certainly take into account, so until the second reading, we will have, therefore, a bill that will take special care to prevent domestic violence or prevent violence against women and children, which is certainly what I am particularly apostropheping on behalf of the SDSS Club of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135653	Thank you. Next is counterpart Stjepan Curaj, in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135654	I thank the esteemed vice president, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, and now they're really colleagues on behalf of the motionary, and I think they've had one quality debate on the board, and they've already been through all those important things. Let me just have a brief reference, even on behalf of the club, to what is being offered here. I think that what's good, what we've been on the board multiple times, is about a written report on police operations, so far has been the minister's responsibility to submit to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. But now it's actually getting a little bit better. So, it is normal, however, that the chief director of the police submits this report formally and continues to submit it to the minister who will then present it here, but I think that in this way we have clearly identified who is responsible for what, and that one person, one institution can not submit a report on behalf of the other, she, until now, formally, was so, practically even though there has always been a report on the work and doing police work by the chief director, but it was nowhere in this way arranged, so I think that part is first of all delivered to the Minister, Minister of Government, the Government of the Board and then going to the HS, I think it was absolutely as it would have been right. As for the commission, there were most speeches, therefore, to be abolished by the police administrations of the commission if there was no interest in them. Now we can discuss whether it would be for this commission that's proposed here in the 10+2 model, and I'll discuss it later, where it would practically be 5% of the net salary, and that would be about 300 kuna today, whether or not it would be, whether and therefore, we'd be interested, and that's why we've all agreed to continue to support that one still needs to be there, people won't be doing it just for the sake of compensation, so we don't need it, but it certainly compensates for someone's work and the responsibility he's accessing that job, and that's what's normal, and that's what the outside members of the parliamentary boards, the council for civil... etc., therefore, something we certainly already have and which is certainly to be valorised in this way, and that time spent in the ultimate line and honorary performance of that function, so that, of course, I support the conclusion of the committee that we voted on, and once again on behalf of the club, I suggest that this fee be arranged by, in accordance with other similar bodies. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, as regards its composition, the commission has also asked whether two members representing the institution on which it is being decided should have as a second-degree commission? I believe that, and we believe that it is certainly good that there is all kinds of professional support by the ministry, to be available to the members of the commission, whether they decide to do so in some mini-assemblies or not, it needs to be seen more operationally, so it has to form 3,4.5 of possible if it is of course and an odd number should be, and that they have all the professional help, to do so by regulation that they have, but that they have quite the members with the right to vote, I think that, that they are not quite leading anywhere because they are deciding on a second degree, and being in front of a body that has brought some court, so now whether or not to defend that body, I think it is not good, but I understand maybe the intensity in which we are talking about some independent experts or representatives who may not have brought up criminal professions to do not have ever been able to defend this kind of police or any such, that they may need professional assistance, although it is true, but that they are not all of the people who, as to be, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, and in fact, that they are concerned, when they are concerned, when they are concerned. Next up, Art. 47th, what's going on and on about being in the service, now, what do we want to get? It is changed that it used to be a four-year school, and now it opens up the possibility of applying to those who have completed their three-year period. Do we want and do we aim to have quality or quantity? In this case, if I'm doing a good reading here, it's about quantity, that we're opening up the possibility that more people are coming and they can apply for police service. Second question, is that what we need? If we look at the averages that we have about 5 police officers per 1,000, correct me if I did something wrong, Finland one, let's say the United States will not compare with them they have the same one, Germany has 3, Ireland 2.5, Denmark 2 employees per 1,000 population, Croatia has 5, Spain has 5, Greece has 5, Bulgaria has more say Serbia has 6. I mean, from this data, we're missing so much. First of all, we lack quality, we lack equipment, we may be short of dispensing those police officers we can legally change here. We can change that their size of work goes safely in a large percentage of double-digitally guaranteed dealings with petty crime on something that is without harm to third parties such as prostitution, easy drugs, or marijuana, legalisation of marijuana, etc. When we decide that this is legal, we will certainly open up more space or more time for police officers to do those jobs that are really in that sphere of serious crime or that which prevents certain threats and all that is theirs, in many of their duties. So, their salaries are a higher priority to me to raise their salaries than to increase the number of employees. Now 4,400 is basic, and an average of 6,000 plus a minus, now I don't know about last year what the amount is. And now 6,000 kunas may be at my place in Slavonia and Baranja, and it's not so bad, but certainly something is not that someone could solve with it and the housing issue and start a family, etc., so of course it's not enough, but somewhere like Zagreb, and we have 2 or 3 Croatia inside our small country and almost impossible. And then of course we don't have any interest, not because someone has a three-year or four-year-old school, but because it's obviously not enough resources to make it so interesting for people to join that public service. And here we should look at the equipment, the safety, there were a lot of these inscriptions, like the ones about the procurement of vests, etc., so there's more to education, to the quality there we need to focus not on the number itself. Of course we have a problem with a certain police administration and that we have, say, down in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, I have as many of our people as we do, our Slavs who are there, who would like to return home and certainly that this part of the increase in the possibility of financing accommodation beyond 100 km if you're assigned to, that's good. As for any increase in material rights to make better use of all the resources we have and to increase both wages and material rights and equipment and all that is needed for quality police work than perhaps to go into expansion, to increase the number of employees themselves. Because I don't see what the goal is other than quantity, is by reducing from four years to three-year-old school we only get quantity, quality sure no, at least we shouldn't, honor exceptions. And it's more important to me that all the resources we have or we should use for just bigger salaries, greater material receipts of our employees themselves, and greater quality regarding their further education, co-financing of further education, we have a police school here, it's well stated and legally, these legal changes and it's being resolved, so there's a lot of good things here to be supported, but I want to ask around these really question, I might want to hear the very reason for this amended article 47, so the rent for the apartment that I said if it's more than 100 km or on the island is absolutely that. Accordingly, I also welcome Article 72 that in the event that a police officer is transferred to a job for which a lower calling is prescribed, he or she shall exercise the right to a basic salary obtained at the workplace from which he or she is transferred if it is more favourable to him. So we're stimulating that we really fill in certain places and critical where we're short of personnel so that people don't get hurt so much that we get so much more interest and that it eliminates the need for written consent in those cases. So what I mentioned in Article 88 is that the High School of Police is also carrying out scientific research, so it's all about quality, increasing education, that's all we can accept, though. I don't think the number of quantities itself is so bad, it may not be well distributed in Croatia, and it should be looked at. That's exactly what these things are going to regulate. And in conclusion, of course, I would ask that certainly all of these conclusions and committees and that we have heard here today and what we have brought about and we will support this intensity, because there are a lot of good things, but surely that what is most important, if we talk about the commission itself and the composition and the number and the fee and the purpose that it has to give it to it in greater importance, and don't hurt it, or God forbid it because we know what that means. Although it states here that only 26 applications were in I don't know in '16, '17. A year if I understand correctly, it may well come when it comes to the importance of this body and more and more work itself on that second - degree body. I think the most important thing here is that, if I said so, and if I missed something else, I would use it individually, but normally I would ask that these proposals be considered and I would like to think again about this amendment to Article 47 concerning the reception of the service, because I don't think that we have some chronic number of shortages of total numbers, perhaps a lack in certain areas or quality, quality in working with citizens, in relation to, knowing the law and our powers, and that's what we need to do on a continuous basis, and increasing material benefits or increasing the material standards of our employees themselves and the equipment at the very end and their receipts, that's the direction that we need to go to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135655	Thank you, too, and we will continue to debate on behalf of the counseling club. The next colleague is Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go, colleague Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135656	Secretary of State with an associate. The police are one of those institutions that, when everything works and when the board works, no one notices and does not say anything about it, however, when it does not work well, it actually undermines or starts to shake the foundations of the state itself because through the police, the military and some justice, the state de facto practices one of its fundamental functions, which is a monopoly on violence and through predetermined procedures, in fact prevents violence from spreading to society, in principle, each seeking its own justice and, in principle, revenge, and therefore, it is the regulation of police affairs and bringing that service to a level that is satisfactory and that works in one society and at the same time people who are dealing with this business, bringing their level to a level of excellence or at least the desire to achieve excellence, I would say one of the key tasks of the state. In this law that is before us or the proposal there are some positive shifts without further ado in the opinion of GLAS and HSU, there are also some problems and I hope that you will focus on these problems between the two readings and try to find or accept some of our proposals as answers or solutions to these problems. I'll give you some examples. It is established in one new form or on the basis of a slightly different regulatory commission to work on complaints about police work. One of the key controversys in the political debate and the public debate in the past year was the controversy regarding the possibility that the attorney general might have insight into all procedures, documents and the possibility of contacting all persons within the police, which was denied. If this commission doesn't have that possibility, it loses its meaning. It will control hot water and will not control exactly the most sensitive and controversial points in police work. And therefore, if it takes a little longer procedure, if it takes the highest level of security clearance, so be it. Why not be the highest level of security clearance for the people who will work in this commission to make any sense to this commission, because if no insight is disabled and will always be disabled in the most sensitive aspects of police work and the most problematic situation. Therefore, in order for this committee to be a good idea but for this commission to make any sense, it must have insight into everything. And without further ado, it can also be defined, even legally, to define the procedure for selecting people and verifying people who will be appointed and elected by the Parliament to this commission at the level of appropriate security checks. It's a much smaller problem and much less damage and much less work if you want than it is the formation of a pointless commission that won't see into what de facto would have to have insight into what de facto is founded and exists. In view of the procedure laid down, therefore, there is now one commission, not a whole series of committees and commissions, to resolve only second-degree complaints, so after one who complains is not satisfied with the answer and the solution given to him by the ministry itself, given these facts, the question of course is also the question of deadlines and the duration of the procedure. It should somehow be time-limited, too, so that people don't wait for justice and an answer for five years, which I know, maybe longer in some cases when the whole answer loses its meaning more. Therefore, this procedure should be defined and time-defined in order for the commission to repeat itself to make sense. The third thing that applies to that commission, at this point only individuals can complain, so the one who thinks he's been wronged. Imagine a little Croatian situation, imagine a little bit, I know, old people in rural areas who will hardly just articulate themselves, but also get to the place where they need to file that complaint and deal with it at all. We believe that it would be rational to allow or introduce the possibility that either the Institute or the Office of the Attorney General or the Public Advocate and the Human Rights NGOs would also file such applications, it would certainly extend the possibility of using and, in some ways, if you want the possibility of justice in the functioning of this institute. It's about the commission itself. An evaluation of top police executives by the police director is being introduced and this possibility is being introduced, that, based on poor grades, they are resolved before the end of the term of office, given the functioning, of course, that any such situation and any such solution always introduces the possibility of political staffing. But once we have to take a step where professionalism is a personal interest if you want all the superiors in the institution and where on the other hand the institutions must be able to function, so that people can cooperate, so we don't consider it a bad solution. We consider it a bad solution, however, to reduce the service admission criteria, so instead of 4 years of school, 3 years of school. It doesn't just mean that younger people come from less school, it reduces the status of the people you take to the police. So someone who has a three-year high school makes it impossible for him to make some kind of progress, but it also reduces his status when he enters the police, and such institutions, such as police, status and respect and respect, which have an audience, therefore, play a very large role from the public and a very significant role in their authority and ability to act effectively. So, we consider this a bad solution, and we think that four years of schooling should be maintained as a criterion, further generally through the police, promoting the criteria of excellence, better education, further education, contributing not only to better quality education of police officers, but to the re-authorization of these police officers, contributing to the fact that people look at them with more respect and more respect, and that is also, in our opinion, one important element in defining the role of police officers, we believe that this should be strengthened in this law. Here, several colleagues also mentioned the problem of the solution, moving police officers to lower ranking jobs, with the same salary, but lower rank, where, as a criterion, they take only education and not work experience, so to speak. I am not quite sure how this is in line with the European directives, I think that is already mentioned by my colleague Ostojić, so it is really important for another reading to check and coordinate. Now I'm going to say a few sentences on the question of the position of women in the police, so, cops or police officers, which are regulated by this law, or if you want to be unregulated or regulated in one way we think is discriminatory. The first thing is that the law should make it impossible for women to move to a more unfavourable workplace after maternity and proper leave. We do research all the time, we horn against the pay gap between women and men, it's the basis of that difference. It's not that women don't get the same salaries for the same jobs, they don't get the same jobs. They were also discriminated against, among other things, because of maternity leave, they were discriminated against in the ability to advance and the ability to obtain more desirable and better paid jobs. This is also true for the second point, discriminatory in this law, which is that time on maternity and appropriate permits is not included in the work experience, and then on the basis of that, it does not qualify as fulfilling the conditions for advancement. We think that this is a bad solution and it needs to be changed so that it is an integral part of the time that a person qualify for advancement, because as a society we either go or we need to go towards, that maternity leave is shared between mothers and fathers and in this respect, such a solution would also contribute to the intensity of other laws. The third element that is absolutely inevitable and which should be and I think it should be one of the criteria at all for support or not support in this law is a conviction for family violence, as a criterion for getting into the police. It is impossible for you to hire a police officer who has been convicted at any level of criminal or criminal for domestic violence. Just remember how many of those cases there are when people call the police just because of domestic violence. And now you're gonna call someone and someone will come to see who I am at home beating up their family. This is inadmissible and we believe that this is something that must absolutely be included in the law as a criterion for admission to police service. The final questions that would be raised concern the relationship between this commission, which is established within the MUP and the Ombudsman's Office, i.e. the Advocate General, in which the relationship is regulated. We consider it very important and important and positive to enable further education of police officers, again for those reasons. And finally, we think, of course, that it's always important for all of this, but in this case, even more important, are instead of crowding up a bunch of people, that people who work in the police get paid decently. It's not just a question of their better lives again and their ability to work in the police, it's again and it's a question of their social status, reputation and authority. So when it comes to the police, it's not a matter of pay, it's not just a question of standards, wages and the efficiency of the service. Depending on what you do about it, we'll decide how we vote on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135657	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next up is a colleague Ivan Pernar, A Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go, colleague Pernar. Make sure you don't fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135658	Dear ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, the chairs are mostly empty, but the important thing is that you are here who you are, that your hearts are here. The Law amending the Police Law sounds good in theory, but what Croatia has a problem with is currently not dry administrative provisions but has a problem with systematic lying to the public by the police system. I'll point out an example of the police's claim that the border is under control. The border of Croatia is not under control. So the border isn't controlled. The illegal migrants pass it every day, and the best evidence for my thesis is next. If the border were under control, then not all these migrants would go to Bihac and Klajud because further they couldn't cross the border, logical conclusion. However, precisely because the border there is permeable, they go there for that very reason. So, if someone's being foolish and can't understand that the limit is permeable, here's a simple way to figure it out. So why would all these migrants go to the Croatian border if it was closed to them. Now, here's another argument that explains that the problem in Croatia, not in migrants, because it's constantly creating the thesis that migrants are a problem. That the Croatian border is closed, is the Hungarian border closed to migrants? Yes or no? The answer is yes. It's closed to migrants. And then, next logical question, do the migrants go to the Hungarian border? Yes or no? No, I don't. So Hungary solved its migrant problem by closing the border. And Croatia still has problems with illegal migrants only because the MUP systematically lies and deceives that the border is closed and is not closed. It is known that of all people who have come to BiH. Three quarters have already crossed the Croatian border and gone further. Three quarters! Three out of four, do you know what the probability is? You're sending a message to illegal migrants to keep coming. And why am I saying that? Because I saw the pictures posted on the site of the Morkopal parish chronicle of the destroyed mountain house on Jančarica. He says he brings Mr. Paul Vlahovic from HPD White Rock, Mrkopalj, a mountain house on Jančarica has been thoroughly destroyed. This isn't the first time, it's been a frequent occurrence lately. So this isn't the only mountain house that's been destroyed. It's not the only cottage that's been broken in, but we've had a situation now, so listen, this is the news for you. So I'm telling you what's really going on in real time right now. He says we bring details of the accident to Jasenovac. I'm the one who dumped the migrants. Says the man hiding in the bushes was shot by a hunter from Zagreb. Namely, the hunter is a professional photographer, 57-year-old Zagreber Igor Ilic on Tuesday, around 2:00, after hearing the yakuke after the shot he fired from the hunting carabin, he realized what actually happened. He thought he was shooting at a wild pig in the dark, and he shot an illegal migrant, didn't expect to be there. And you know why he didn't expect it? Well, because he was naive. Because he trusted the MUP when he said the border was closed, that illegal migrants were gone. And in your naiveness, he just shot a migrant thinking it was a wild pig. If someone had told him God's man, the woods were full of migrants, crossing the line whoever he wanted, then he'd be thinking about shooting. Well, no one told him that. And now the man is in trouble. I am expressing my full support to him at this time, and I believe that he did nothing wrong in the sense that there was an evil intention. I think he's guilty because he didn't know who it was, he really believed he was a wild pig. But the state should warn hunters, so the state should shout out loud, and especially tell hunters that the border is not under control. But does the state do that? No, I don't. It's the M.O.P. that assures us of everything else. The MUP assures us that the border is secure and now imagine, Mr. MuP representative, you're a hunter. You're in the border area, you're hunting wild boars, you see in the middle of the night, there's something on the leaves, so what's your reaction? And your colleagues assure you, there are no migrants here. What's your reaction? You're going to shoot a wild pig. And I want to tell you that this attitude is going to cause human tragedies, this shotgun has been sprayed, and there have been cases when they were found by the river, drowned, and the rocks are broken down on them. All these incidents happen for one reason only, because the border is not under control. So if the border was under control, the incident in Jasenovac with the shotguns wouldn't have happened, the rock wouldn't have killed the migrants, wouldn't have drowned in the rivers, etc., wouldn't have been found in the woods, etc. And I appeal to this occasion to the police, to face the truth, I know it's hard, I know it takes courage to do it, that it's not easy, but the first step towards the problem solved, is not to cover up the problem, but to face it. So the police have to say honestly, people, we're doing our best, but we simply don't have enough human material resources whatever it is to control the border and there's a problem that needs to be solved. Then there's nothing in the police anymore, then the police did their job, then it's the legislator's turn to find a way to stop illegal migration, and to those who say it's impossible, I'm going to say one sentence, it's a lie, it's a lie that has no truth in it, and I'm going to give you an example, did Hungary close its border and is the border under control now? Yes, it is. Is Hungary having trouble with illegal migrants crossing the border illegally? There's no... solved the problem, how? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where there's a will, there's a way. Here's an example of number two, Italy. The same thing, many say, can't close the border, can't stop illegal migrants, it can't be done. Mr. Matteo Salvini comes in and says, "Look at the election, I'll close the border for illegal migrants and the citizens pick him up and what did he do?" Well, what he said, he closed the border for illegal migrants. See how long before the annual illegal migrants landed on the Italian coast and how much now, 100 times less, is almost a negligible figure. And why is that? Because it became the first perception of the problem, that illegal migration happens, and then when the problem is set to exist, then solutions should be found and stopped, that is, work to implement a logical solution. The same thing Orban did in Hungary. However, Plenkovic in Croatia does not want to do so. What reasons doesn't he want to do it? Now that's a question for him and his conscience. But that we're systematically being lied here, that we're convinced of something that's not true, that the lie is being shown to us as truth, that all of us are being made up of fools and morons, so like us, we're not able to understand what reality is, so God's man, sees from the plane, all of us living in border areas, which is reality. And you can't work people for fools anymore. So I'm calling on the MUP to stop lying, to start telling the truth. The other thing, it's really embarrassing and embarrassing to the police, spreading fake news, you said there that the pregnant woman she was found in an illegal transition, and that woman was not at all pregnant. So the woman comes in and says, "I'm pregnant," she says in a high degree of pregnancy, you can think about it, and the woman agrees with the police and the police announces false news, disinformation, all the media broadcasts, including HRT fake news. That the police would have saved a pregnant woman in a high degree of pregnancy, and in the end it turns out that the police lied, that the woman was not at all in a high degree of pregnancy, that she was not pregnant at all, let alone at a high level, with her stomach to her teeth. And instead of bringing those illegal migrants back, you bring them here to Croatia, that's your policy. I don't know where this is going, but I can assume one thing, I can assume that there is no political will in Croatia, by stopping illegal migration, that's one thing and another, I can say that the Living Wall has a consciousness not only that the problem exists, meaning illegal migration, but it also has a desire to solve this problem, that is, to end illegal migration. What the Croatian government is currently doing, this Plenkovic, Bandic and Vrdoljakov and Pupović, is making sure everything there is no problem, that the border is closed, in fact that the lie is true, here I would say that the lie is true. And he serves it hard with the help of the MUP and the media, a lie like the truth. The living wall, meaning, that the citizens should know, must know that the Living Wall is aware of the real situation, that it is not a party that looks into your eyes and lies and says no, no, it is not an open border, and it is clear to everyone that it is open, that illegal migrants are going through a nonstop, that they are walking around Croatia like a goat, like Ilica, walkers in Zagreb, means that the Living Wall is perceptive of the problem and that the Living Wall has a political will to solve the problem, or to close the Croatian border. And the moment the Croatian border closes for illegal migrants, all the problems at the UN-San canton in Bihac and Kladusa will be over. Why? Because migrants will realize that they can't cross from there to Croatia and that they will stop coming there new, and those who are, those who are driving by train and who are already on roads, buses, etc. And on the other hand, there will be no more migrants coming to the BiH. So the Croatian government has the power to solve the picturesquely speaking, two birds with one blow, so closing borders in Croatia does not solve only the problem of illegal migrants crossing the illegal Croatian border but is actually protecting neighbouring BiH from illegal migration. The question is whether our government has the capacity, if there is no money, I can understand that Mr. Plenkovic tells those who pinch it in Brussels, listen people we don't have the resources, we need money to hire new people or to make some fence this, what, all 5, correct, but let's say there's a problem. Don't keep like, like I'd say, there are people who know how to say something but don't dare, that guy you got a problem with, but as your boss, he's kind of big, so what am I gonna say to him right now? So you have to tell Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, so you have to tell your bosses there in Brussels, you have to tell them the truth, that you can't keep the border under control, that you're looking for help if there are no resources, resources of human material in Croatia, but of course Plenkovic doesn't do it, Plenkovic acts like a noose, he simply stuck his head in the sand and his subordinates like the parrots repeat the lie as the truth, meaning the mantra that the border is closed like those who manipulate Hare Krishan, Krisna Hare, Hare, Rama, Rama, Rama, Hare, Hare, Hare, Hare, Rama, Rama, Rama and so on. So just like Hare Krishna mantra and the Croatian police mantra that the border is closed to illegal migrants that it is not permeable etc. But from that mantra, my dear who works, the Croatian police, has absolutely no use, the reality is, unfortunately, different, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135659	Thank you, too. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135660	Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, of course, did not speak about the subject which is the subject of the debate and I say this for preventive reasons so that if he does not receive a warning later, I can speak of the same subject in the same way, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135661	Yeah, you're right. So definitely the speaker didn't talk about a subject called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, and the MP will get a warning, thank you. We're moving on, next up is my colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try not to participate in this national sovereign orgy which we have just heard and the anti-European spirit of one, in fact, of one party that is part of a Parliament that is part of the country, a significant body of the country that is a member of the EU. Such anti-European speech is actually outrageous and I would say inhuman because, I mean, I'm not going to mention that comparison now with the wild boars, etc. And about the poor people who are now actually between countries because things happened bigger than them and they had to become migrants. Both Croatians and Italians have been migrants for decades, we stay in a way and we migrants, and we should have a different relationship with this problem instead of dealing with it again, the national-soverean approach and actually the orgies, the populist orgies. So what's said in this last speech has nothing to do with the law we're discussing today. I'm going to try to say something that has to do with the law, and I'm proposing to colleagues who will continue to talk about this law, because this law is really important, it has in it the values and disadvantages that exist already, especially the shortcomings that have existed for years and we're actually in front of one perhaps epilogue and the epilogue is not what we wanted to be, the epilogue of a story, a long story, a tape that concerns civil surveillance of police forces. I'll remind you, I'll give you a very brief review. The adoption of the Law on the Police in 2011 prescribed that if the applicant is unsatisfactory by carrying out the procedure of verifying his complaint allegations and sent by the head of the establishment unit, of course, the file of the case shall be submitted without delay to further representation and resolution of the committee for the work on complaints by the MUP, it is Article 5 and I will refer only to that article in this brief presentation. According to the 2011 law, this commission had 3 representatives, 3 members, one of whom was an MP, and two were actually elected by the Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities again on the proposal of civil society organisations, professional public and non-governmental organisations. This three-member commission didn't work at all, there were a lot of complaints, and they didn't actually succeed in this whole work because we have to keep in mind that this one pro bono paper was because it actually didn't pay for work, they weren't even paid for at the time. So this commission failed to achieve the goals it had given himself. That is why the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has discussed this several times and eventually sent a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament to propose amendments and amendments to the Police Act within 6 months. This happened in 2015, following a debate on the Home Secretary's report on police affairs for 2013. As you can see, it's been four years, and there hasn't really been much going on with civilian surveillance over the complaints of people who have been dissatisfied with police actions. In accordance with that conclusion in 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a proposal for amendments and amendments to the Law on Police in February 19th, and then a proposal was actually made by the Government, which has largely complicated the whole problem and created one situation from which we are now trying to get out. Why? Because more commissions were actually proposed, one of which was central had 3, meaning a committee for.../incomprehensible/... under complaints at the headquarters of the ministry which made up 3 representatives of the citizens, and then it was agreed and proposed, and eventually adopted by the assembly, regardless of what the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities has then repeatedly responded to that and said it was impossible. It is suggested that every police administration, and there are 20 of them, yes, it has its own, has its own commission. The commission that made three people with their deputies again. All together to cut short because we have 20 police departments per county, all together this system of control, civil controls were to be carried out by 126 people, 126 people. It was clear that this could not be achieved, and this is especially because no work compensation was provided, and otherwise it would be very difficult to achieve. So, in fact, two public calls to civil society organisations and the professional public were later made by a very small number of candidates. In fact, the first public call, on the first public call, received 23 nominations from just a few committees, several police administrations or counties, Split-Dalmatia, Brod-Posaviska, Požesko-slavonska and Vukovar-Srijemska, the rest of them were not any candidates at all. And of these, of all candidates, it was possible to appoint the only committee to work on complaints at the seat of the MUP because others were, there were not enough people, and a committee to work on complaints at the Brod-Posavina Police Administration. So one complete debacle. Everyone was aware of this debacle and the MUP was aware of this debacle and the Ministry of the Interior, and I must mention that and civil society organisations should have been aware of their debacle because after so much pressure, and then as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, all these proposals, the proposals of civil society made to their own and talked, etc., at the end of the civil society association, did not propose almost anyone for either, for either of these committees or very few members. So it was a debacle and a system of being both an institution and a civil society. If the non-interest of the civil society organisation stemmed from the fact that the costs provided for by the cost-sharing were not intended, this does not reduce the debacle of civil society. So everyone, in fact, we all went out as well as the Parliament and this government and civil society came out just like the losers of a human rights situation. Now he's trying to fix it, like I said, I can't say that I'm satisfied with the way it's tried. Now I'm going to say the reasons, I hope they're actually going to be taken into account in the second reading. First of all, Article 5 of the Law is amended again and it provides that, in the event of a failure within 30 days, it has the right to react to a natural person and only those whose rights are potentially injured. We take into account the fact and now I will return to the question of immigrants, migrants. How can we expect a migrant who doesn't even know the language, who thinks that his rights have been violated, to actually act on the basis of this law, and it would be much more understandable if civil society organisations could do so on his behalf, in his name, if possible, the possibility of such failures. Here's what I think is such a possibility, that such possibilities exist. What is positive is that the establishment of a committee to work on complaints is proposed. This commission would have 10 representatives of citizens who appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, once again civil society and professional public, NGOs or persons applying or personally, and 2 representatives of the ministry. It has already been said that the problem of the participation of ministry representatives is still creating debates and I also think that all should be actually from civil society and professional public with the ministry giving them special support and expertise, right. Although I don't think it would change a lot of things, but what no one has mentioned here, although there are, of course, certain restrictions that I welcome, some restrictions on who may be elected for that function, of course, should not be investigated for certain things, but all I welcome, however, what is doubtful is whether someone who has to be elected by the Parliament or after being elected from the Parliament or in the selection process, is actually being subject to a thorough security check procedure according to a special law governing the area of security checks. In some ways, this security check actually conflicts with the way these candidates are, yes, how they will be chosen because they have to pass the filter of the Parliament, means one committee and then the Parliament itself, and will be the subject of the debate of the MPs themselves. I think it's quite enough security measure to get good members of such a commission, professional and personal reputation and that the security check here should not be taken into account because it kind of puts one special shadow over such a commission. What is also problematic is to narrow down the commission's competence to work on complaints that will only decide on complaints against the ministry's second-degree decision in the cases of complaints against citizens. Such cases in 2016 were 23 and in fact the question arises whether to make one such whole procedure, such a large commission with at the end of 23 objections and of course, given that there are so few objections, normally that the MUP has said we will bear costs, 23 times as many How much... [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] Okay, I hope that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135663	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, thank you very much. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the last registered club of representatives is the Club of Independent Representatives and with us is colleague Tomislav Žagar, please welcome colleague Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135664	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. So, I'm going to listen to the appeal of the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Radin, to stick to the subject and somehow proceed to the part where he left off. He mainly spoke of a very important aspect of this legislative proposal, which is the relationship between civil oversight or citizens and the police department itself or the MUP, and this is a very important aspect. In addition to this aspect, these changes bring a different aspect, it is the very material status of police officers, then their conditions for entry into service, their way of progress in this service and of course education, and these are some of the main backbones of these changes that we can call the corrections of the existing law, because in the public debate that was led to the adoption of these amendments and additions, the ministry has made it clear that access to a new whole law on police will, we do not know when it will come, but perhaps the Secretary of State could tell us at what stage this preparation of such a whole law is because I think it is unusually important because these amendments and additions certainly did not touch most of the issues that would need to be addressed by a single approach. In 2011, with a mockery, there was a welcome innovation in public to say so to the MUP when they suggested that police officers themselves propose a slogan for the Croatian police and then the citizens chose the most favourable slogan. There were 5 slogans in the game, "The Guardians of Your Security", "On the Right Side", Mission: Our Security, Your Security" and "Safety and Trust" "With You". This slogan "Safety and Trust" has been selected. I personally like this slogan, and why do I mention this slogan “Safety and Trust”? I don't know who his author is. I didn't find him later. Which is why this slogan is important because the good work of the police, without trust, must exist between citizens and police work, without that trust we will not succeed, in the phase of adoption, has passed the Law on Road Safety, I see that such a law is significantly more repressive than existing laws. Look, we're not going to achieve much by repression, we're doing more by building trust within the system, especially this trust between cops and citizens. In that sense, what counterpart Radin was saying about the commission itself is important. But before that, just to say one remark I read in the media, is it true I don't know. There are nine unions inside the MUP. Not everyone is invited to talk about these amendments to the law. It is likely that representativeness, however, should be respected, all trade unions should be called, talked to them because I think that dialogue in this society needs more, especially if we are looking at a level of trust. The question is also public whether there are too many police officers, but when arguments are taken about the length of the Croatian border, which is nearly 1,400 km, of which it is not, a border that is not with EU members, then indeed, and one third of police officers are actually activated at the border, then we see that the number, I think, is not too large. So, the Croatian police have serious tasks, this is a very important law and that is why we need to talk about it. It's good to go in two readings, of course, and that until the second reading we'll be able to do some things and, uh, you as a proposer might be able to appreciate it. So this law is not the cause of the problem in society, it solves the consequences. Among other things, the effects within the systems observed. Not to forget later, when we talk about building trust in relation to repression, it somehow seems to me that the MUP is taking a little care of it, too, and it is underlining. These are the two projects of the MUP that have lived through history, but I do not know to what extent they are today. First of all, they are committees for prevention that are formed in municipalities and cities and which play a very important role. Some municipalities have formed, some are not cities. And the other thing is contact cops or cops in the community. I don't know what happened later, whether the salaries of those officers have been increased, whether they have, or do these tasks and have equal salaries. Why is it important, I'm going to mention one example, I haven't checked it out, I don't know if it's true, but on the basis of the conversation I heard it, say in Germany, certain federal states, police officers name it after a police officer has done a certain working life in some other activity, after more for some reason he can't do a job that's parenting, he works in the police department because he knows his end, he knows the conditions, and then he's like a contact officer between the citizens and the police, and believe that the information he owns can be very useful in police work. That's the point, and somewhere in contact with a cop who cooperates with citizens every day, he knows every day, I could say here, Ministers, send your men in front of shops where people hang out, send them to cafes, you'll know everything. You'll get all the information and then you'll know who's wild on the roads so there won't have to be such a big repression. So these are two important things to think about when the whole law is passed. The Board of Appeals, whether this fee of 5% pays motivates people to apply, we hope they will because we see that, as far as it's said, 2 or 3 calls failed to team up, the truth that it was by police administrations. As for three-year-old school and the possibility that these people, young people applying for a cop's profession, I say hello, I think that's good because they're, look out, I know from practice anyway, I'm not going to tell you kids, those young people had to go to adult education later, so they got that fourth degree, and then they later applied for police work. It would be the best solution, but of course it requires money, if there was a high school for a cop, at least for two years, then it would, then we would solve these problems. I don't know how it was solved before, but that school would then solve these problems. But, I welcome this, let those young people with a three-year-old school be allowed to study for the profession of a police officer, even if they go through this training and this part to finish a four-year-old school and to greet it, of course, the provisions that allow this vertical passage for the post-graduate studies of the High School of Police, that is the same thing to welcome. Now, what isn't, which somehow seems to me, two things that seem very questionable to me. First, a fee of 1000 kuna net for a police officer who didn't, are out of place of residence. Slavonia, police officers in Metkovic, Dubrovnik, where they are already, beware, their parents had to send money to survive. You're the cops the moment they got, when they had to go there, from that moment on they were doing everything. Look, they're doing everything they can to find a connection, to get back to their place in any way. Not from the whim, not from it, but from what I just can't live. And 1,000 kunas isn't big money, 1,000 kunas I don't know if it'll be enough. Some apartments were mentioned to help solve it, it would be a much better solution, then it gave up, maybe build some accommodation capacity, I don't think we'll be able to achieve this 1,000 kuna goal, and especially not create an impression in the clarity that it encourages the departure of young people from Slavonia to these areas where police officers need it. You should have that one... Access and see, which, of course, colleagues and colleagues have rightly said, increase police wages, there will be no problem, I know then that the domicile population will apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One remark, that's my personal remark, and I don't see why, here, Secretary of State, think about it until the full adoption of the law, Art. 47th that a person must be under 30 years old. An example from practice, a man married, at that moment he got, completed police education, received an invitation to go to Istria, he refused that call and then after that he turned 30, paid for his schooling because it was according to the provisions... Had to, but now he can't work as a cop anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? For 30 years, especially now, here's this pension reform and the initiatives where, where it's going to work longer, so we need maybe, I don't know why it's exactly 30 years. Maybe it's kind of, since life is going on forever, so maybe some experts should figure out if it's really an optimal time for that. The resolution of police administrations based on this assessment raises the question, raises a number of questions. With all the good intentions, yesterday with the listener and Minister Kusčević talking about depolitisation, talk about police depolitisation, it is not a simple process and it will not work that way overnight. There needs one systematic approach, a profession above all, respecting the profession, that evaluation must be more concrete, clearer, and let the new Police Act cover it, because this is how we can truly believe that someone just because they are not, let's not say politically or not have to be a member of the political option, his brother may be, for example, and then for the same reason he can be considered not, can't accept a policy that is currently in power and then, in that way, can be eliminated from a further executive, management post, especially here's the chief of police administration. They are a very important, important link in the police system because police chiefs are making decisions that are important for local communities as well. In that sense think about it until the whole law, in this part of it I should even in these changes throw it out but if you think it will contribute to the solution let it remain. Perhaps even a good solution to be considered in the future by example of some developed countries, which is because the state administration is now moving towards the counties, because today Minister Kuscevic definitely said that this is the state's structure remains. The unit of local self-government remains in this structure and he has stressed it today and therefore puts more burden on the county level, so perhaps there are certain police jobs, certain police officers, that, theirs, that the more jurisdiction they place on the county area if this one, while the policy of ruling is such that such a structure remains. Here, these are some principled remarks, we hope that by the second reading, the legal proposal will be much better quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135665	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, first Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135666	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretaries with their associate, this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police we have a very important matter and it stands to be pointed out, but that is the issue to be discussed in a way that simply loses interest. There are indications here mainly to correct the status of police officers where we have no interest in the police. And it is very important where from Slavonia, from other counties to southern Croatia, where there is no interest in the police, in southern Croatia, Istria and in that area to increase this material legal status, mainly people who do not have a problem with housing. However, the triba also think that people also have families to eat this amount enough, it is better than before in this proposal, but whether the amount is sufficient to solve this housing problem during the period when a police officer from Slavonia or from Zagora in Istria or in southern Croatia is in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. It's one of the bigger problems right now, I think that materially technical, material resources that need a cop to do his job for a life, is a cop only a cop, he has no fee he has to be a 24-hour cop, regardless of the police, of course he pays a very, very high salary, but to these cops who are from other parts of Croatia and who fill up police stations where, where this where there's no interest in serving in the police to make this tribal think about solving this housing problem in a better and more acceptable way than these amounts that are better than they are right now, but I think the tribal would generally look at it. Of course a cop on the road would have to have better receipts, better equipment, more to invest in those people because police are essentially the most important factor in man. I said at first, here will have a report in this new law will have a minister once a year, the minister in the assembly of our parliamentary representatives his report on police work. That's why it's incomprehensible to me that this very minister who, by this law proposed by this law, the government he was not on board. I'm not a member of the board, but I was on the board, and he's not even here, and we're talking about a very important law, and I think he was supposed to be minimally here. For what? When we talk about the police, we need to invest as much as we can in the police department, mostly in man, in the material technical means he needs, and of course in the safety of his life because there will be no interest in people being in the police for some minimum wage. That's what we need to know, and that's where the whole state has to try to make it that way. So you invest as much in a man as you can in order to carry out this duty in accordance with the rules and, which are prescribed for police service. Personally, when we talk about this, it is a very important question that I told you secretaries that Croatia must not pretend, invest in the police, the safety of citizens is very important, but we must not pretend to be a police state. That when the mayor comes to mind, he sends the press to control, no matter what I agree with that journalist, or he disagrees, because the same thing we're thinking about is any question, it can't be allowed for the mayor to send a cop to determine the identity of a journalist, and we all know it's a journalist and it's coming into the newsroom, it's kind of pressure. I don't think it's a good message because the police are, they're guys from the people, they're people from the people, and that's how the ministry of the tribune prevents the creation of a picture of a police state. In the police triba, I said mainly in man, in the system, in equipment, in wages, mainly in these areas where the police are not interested in it is Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Istrian County, it has been long since from Slavonia, from Vukovar, from the extreme parts of the Republic of Croatia go to the other end of Croatia and here you are giving an amount that I think is not enough for a policeman to provide him with this separate life both from the family and that whole story, so the tribalo would really find the best solution. Is if this man is not settled residentially, and comes here for tenants, and we are talking about this amount down in these parts is we need to know much more expensive are apartments, renting, but in other parts of the Republic when we talk about Istria, when we talk about southern areas, although in this law you give, meaning, what wasn't so far, means, and this minimal is better, than, but I don't think it's a solution, that the tribal would turn around, see what there is in the state property office to try to see that state property, there's probably a list and local self-government that could possibly at cheaper prices of rents that are the owners of certain housing rooms to provide accommodation for these cops and their families while they're in other police offices from parts of the Republic where they're not, is simply these people at the end when they pay all their lives are expensive, it's much more expensive life in Dubrovnik because of tourism, because of what we have in the Dagorian County and of Dagoria. So, these cops who go down would be tribal with both local self-government and the Ministry of State Property to determine if there's room for living for those people to be cheaper, if they pay them, to be cheaper, is at market price down there, we know how much rent down there, how much they are, and in this direction I think the triba watch this story though, once again I'm going to say what you're saying here is this amount that you're giving to cops, it's one shift compared to the previous nothing. So we can't create from a police officer that he only has to pay for an apartment and maybe a diet and that's it, and that's what a man came from, out of a family from Vukovar to Metkovic, or I don't know, in Dubrovnik. So I think the triba is going that way. As far as this committee is concerned, too, for the work on complaints, and I think that committee would triangulate this one, it will be in every police administration, it will be at the level of the MUP, I think that this commission would be as many people from civilian, civilian, not service, it's just that this surveillance and this security service is still about people who wouldn't want to have any influence from the service because it would be much more open and transparent work. And once again, all that's good in this law, these shifts are, the triba word that they're moving, this is, so first reading, I expect this debate will give our officers the possibility that, the possibility of our young and the girls who want to deal with this honorable work, that they'll open up the possibility of getting better status of those people, not getting paid to the minimal, we need to know that this is a huge problem, that these people are the triba, mainly interested in coming to the police, not leaving the police. Now, I would only so much and I'm sorry once again that it happens, if I was a member of the police at the beginning of the war, I have an obligation to say that the police played a great role in defending the homeland war, maybe it even forgot not only through, and through special units, but also only the ministry, it was also the beginner of the Croatian winning army and therefore, in essence, the Croatian Army came out and I think the police triba put in that context in the right place and that the triba in that way, mainly on the material status of police officers to work to attract, as I said, young people. And we can't turn the state into a police state to put any pressure on the press, on anyone, because it's a bad message. If anyone has the right, so there is freedom of speech, of course there are also legal frameworks and legal possibilities di can be sought through various institutions for injuries or insults, but in a way that the mayor sends to a journalist who is known to the entire public, to control the identity of that journalist, I don't think it's a good message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135667	Thank you, too. The first replica was requested by Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135668	Comrade Bulj, I would only like to say that the board has supported this part of the police department and their status. I'd say it applies to those cops who don't have a status resolved. Namely, from... were built stationers, both in the Dubrovnik area, both in the Lower Lapca and that is one way that this temporary accommodation can be solved and supported, of course, by trade unions that have special conditions for building POS apartments, I think that's the solution. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've rightly pointed out to me this part of the increase in material status, and if we had more reserves, less police officers, then we could have bigger salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135669	Here's your answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135670	Well, I agree that the police are basically like always the most important man, I think if we invest in a man, we'll have a man who's motivated and the police deserve it, mostly the Croatian police, as I said it grew out of it and the Croatian winning army. Therefore, I believe that investing in man, investing in the material status of these people, mainly in areas where the police are not interested, is possible to increase the interest and quality of the people who want to be in the police. In fact, in this direction, the triba basically builds the whole story because without people in the police, we simply won't have enough people in the system and people aren't motivated. We simply have to bring the police closer to the people and what I said is very important investment, but it is very important not to create a picture that this is a police state like the mayor did where he sent it to the journalist to control it in the newsroom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135671	Mr. Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135672	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, if I understand correctly, you said that there should be people in this commission who are not from the system but from or from the system, but from what civil or civilian associations say. The practice of the most developed democratic countries shows exactly other solutions, it's that in these committees when there are people who were formerly in the system that know the system, are we with what we're doing exaggerated in these assessments. First, these complaints have a relatively small number, and secondly, very small, and of these small numbers it is very rare to actually identify some major irregularities or even minor irregularities, and it is much easier if people who were previously in the system can first easily identify and detect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135673	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135674	I agree in this part that, it should be, I said the people of the system, so, right now from the system, it doesn't have to be my 100% right, but I think it would be a better message to the citizens that there are people, citizens, out of the system, and of course those people who were once in the police know better, so the law and the way to work in the police this, the police, I think, I think that's okay. However, if the people of the system, there remains a dose of doubt, this should be civil surveillance, this would tribal someone who will oversee, as well as the secret services that the police have done, if someone from the system remained unnecessarily important, but well this is my view which I think would be a tribune bit, but we don't have to agree on it, but it would be a tribal to get trust in the work of the police and police officers is a bad example which is actually a small example, eventually turned out not to be doing their job the way they should be doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135675	And in the end, Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135676	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, here you go, Professor. Tudjman asked a question in part, but he got the impression from your exposure that you were complaining that most of the police officers were in the commission to work on complaints from police officers. This is not true, therefore, the proposal is that of the 12 members be four police officers and through the expert committee, the parent board, it is discussed that these officials are professional support, that they do not have a crucial role to make decisions not on a council of three members, but that these decisions are taken by the commission and we cannot, of course, be it civil surveillance, but not on the public's part, but above all on solving the problems of police officers who are referring to their performances, and in that I think it is good to think that people who know the work of the police, who know the problems, or what was, and this was the suggestion that retired police officers are reporting there, that it is welcome, as it is welcome to allow this proposal to allow people to run for themselves which was not the case before, therefore, in this way, to allow a wider range of applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135677	Thank you, too. We're moving on with individual debates. ... Yeah, I didn't see it, go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135678	Thank you very much. ... I said the positive things that move here in this law, this is the first reading, I said mostly this material status in areas where there's no interest in being police, it's South Republic, and it's Istria mostly, this area di don't show people because it's lower and more economical and tourism development and people don't have the will to do much less pay than they can and in this way we have to encourage the police. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as I'm concerned, it's just this commission to work on complaints from police officers, so that's my view, I don't think it's a good thing that the public has the perception that the police are controlling the police. I'm just talking about my attitude, that the police are controlling the police, which doesn't have to be, but it's not a good message, that message is similar to what I said the mayor was sending to control the journalist, I mean, it's not good, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135679	And now, Mrs. President. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, here is an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135680	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135681	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Mrsic raised his hand, I don't know why, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135682	I would like to request a break on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats where I would like to warn about the events that took place yesterday in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135683	13 and 30, to 13.30 breaks normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135684	Can I explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135686	Thank you very much. I am horrified by the situation that happened yesterday in Zagreb where in the organization of the church in the premises of the University of Zagreb, a convicted war criminal spoke to students. What kind of message we send to citizens, what message we send to those who were killed in Ahmići when we allow the convicted war criminal to speak in Zagreb to students and to organise the university choir. I am looking for the urgent manifestations of the Student Centre in Zagreb, Zagreb Archbishops and Rectors of the University of Zagreb, as well as the ban on future guests of the convicted war criminal. Thank you to the brave students who have publicly shown their disdain and tried to prevent the organisation of such a stands in Zagreb. All those who have come to support a convicted war criminal who has now turned to faith and God must wonder if they find God’s words in the words of a war criminal or in the tears and suffering of all those who have suffered from Kordic’s hand. Dario Kordić is not the Republic of Croatia we want, Dario Kordić is not the Republic of Croatia we want to live in, we want the Republic of Croatia to be different, and therefore I want to ask for both the student choir and the Zagreb archdiocese, those who organised the act themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135687	You'll get all the words you've asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but looking for a break-seeking break, explaining-collecting, looking for a break is, you can ask for a break, forgive me, but I'm going to give you, first to Mr. Schucker, the word to tell you where the injured Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135688	Thank you very much. You have injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In our Rules of Procedure, in Article 3, paragraph 5 stands the time-limit set out in these Rules of Procedure for the meeting and consultation of the Club of Representatives on the item of the established agenda of the Assembly. I don't mind having a colleague Mrsic bring this up, but when it comes to the agenda, so this is one principle to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and on some convictions and judgments, it may bother some that the Croats still have them in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but unfortunately for you, there are still others there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135689	Mr. Bully, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bully.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135690	Thank you very much. You've hurt the article, Mr. President, because when you're looking for a break, then you're looking for a break for a topic that's being discussed. I've got so far, I think one million and two hundred warnings, it's forbidden for me three days to speak, four days, I don't know what there is, for life you've banned me well, but when other advocates speak out of subject, you smoke and all the time keep your mouth shut, and the minimum you'd have to go yourself to hurt the Rules of Procedure,...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135691	But I just got here, I just got here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135692	...injure the Rules of Procedure for that, and at least for two days, you'll be disfellowshipped, because you're simply not equal to the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135693	I just got here, I don't know where I am, Mr. Škorić, I don't know where I let someone talk off topic, we'll talk about it now, but everyone's talking about the subject of another, and you're talking about the subject, you're the only one talking about it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 238 and 248 relating to the approval of the suspension. As part of the agenda, there is no possibility, therefore, here for the statement of opinion, the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives and this topic was at the beginning of today's sitting and the topic was known and current, and if the fellow representative wanted to do so, I therefore consider it inappropriate under this item of the agenda to seek a break and ask that the break be not approved and proceed with the sitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135695	I have to admit, you're right, and I have to give Mr. Mrsic a warning, and another one. Who's hurt the Rules of Procedure now? No, to whom... Not to whom did the Rules of Procedure hurt Mr. Ostojic? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To whom? .../Intruder: To whom?. ... No, no, no, no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, no, wait a minute, don't, don't run' sit down, let's see Mr. Ostojić say since the injuries of the Rules of Procedure are days and then it's said, it's, uh, actually an attitude, and on me now, at what I've said, because you're late? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135696	Dear Vice President. I would just quote exactly Article 248, because the MP can't quote guilty, are the 4th and 5th items previously which spoke about that the representative of the Club representative can't talk about another topic, therefore it's not true, it doesn't have to be related to the agenda point, and what it says is 248, it's nicely neatly written that it was removed and entered into force on 5 April, these are deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135697	An article? What article did you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135698	Article 248, which states that a break may be sought by a representative of the Club of Representatives once during the day, and states that it is obliged to state the reason, reasoned and so on, there is no limit anywhere that this is related to a specific item of the agenda. And items 4 and 5, are downloaded that existed before.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135699	Wait a minute. Yes, there is, in fact, an article 3, Mr. Ostojić. Stanka was appointed to this Rules of Procedure for meetings and consultations, so she was also reasoned, the Representatives' Club on the item of the established agenda of the Assembly, meaning that, this one, that I was wrong when I gave the break, and Mrsic was wrong when he asked for it. Article 3. Look, the break is the time set, that, this stop is about, not about the one at one o'clock in the afternoon or Wednesday at eight and a half in the morning. I won't give you any more, I won't give you a break, but we're going away with, I gave, unfortunately, I gave, uh, a reminder to Mr. Mrs. Mrs. Gristle, and, uh, now we're going to take the opportunity to welcome the students and students of the Machine Transport School who are here with us, it's nice to have you with us, one round please. ... Let's move on, let's move on with the debate. [[Applause.]] And it's Mrs. Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since today is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, then I will stick to the criteria, and given these amendments that are proposed and given that this is about first reading, I will very briefly just draw attention to the most important. At this point, can we ask the question of the working-legal position of police officers in Croatia is completely satisfactory? The answer in my opinion is that it isn't. Is at this point, are the material rights of police officers quite satisfactory? In my opinion, they're not. Are the fees received by the police, are they adequate or were they previously received in the form in which they should be received? No, they're not. So, just these three facts that I've just pointed out, they're trying to settle with this bill that actually regulates the working-legal position of cops, plus these other facts that I've made. Here it was heard by the opposition, and most of the Whites' representatives, a whole series of contradictions, so in one sentence there were almost incredible facts that had nothing to do with this law. So, I heard everything, it was said that the police had lost authority, then in the second sentence it was said that the police were increasing the authority that was unnatural, then it was said that the police on the one hand had a lack of money which is a fact and that they couldn't go live, for example, from Samobor to Dubrovnik, since it was Dubrovnik-Neretva and generally coastal regions, deficited with personnel and not enough interested young men and girls to do a police job there. On the other hand, this law is just proposing the introduction of this housing fee, so it seems to me that Agent Beljak did not read this bill at all when he put so much contradiction into five sentences and now that I am not counting further and that I am not wasting my time on these contradictions, another contradiction just being said, that the police are politicizing, that is not true at all. So, this law does not politicize the police, and that should be said loud and clear. The Law on Criminal Procedure, which we heard from State Secretary Katic, who changed in 2017, has partly changed both the powers and the conduct of the police in terms of work and, therefore, indirectly influenced the change of these powers and police treatment. In other words, there was a conflict or legal gap between the law which amended the Criminal Procedure Act and the present proposal of the Police Act, so it was necessary to regulate it, not only because, but also because this Criminal Procedure Act was implemented in those amendments from 2017 to the three European directives, and there was also a vacuum which was also needed to be corrected. Also, here's an art. 11. The law on police powers, which is now in force, shows that according to the current structure, therefore, according to the current law, not according to these amendments, the directorship of the police in certain constituencies, therefore, and the structural units are not systematised jobs in that adequate manner in which they should be and do not have those conditions that should have, from which it turns out that police officers are virtually unable to carry out evidence actions, and that is what I just said, the Law on Criminal Procedure that has been amended requires that certain amendments happen here so that these two laws would not be in collapsed, and that is what here other than the Secretary of State and colleagues who spoke, specifically fellow Tudjman and others, I have not heard in the debate, I have actually heard exactly the opposite of what is not fact. As regards the commission, therefore, and the comparison with the Civil Intelligence Council, if there is no, therefore, SOA representatives in this council, and here are proposed representatives of the MUP, I would leave it to the resolution ministry, with respect for all these assumptions we have heard and at some point could pull the parallel, but therefore, by respecting all previous speakers in such a way as to ensure that human rights are protected on the one hand, and on the other hand being taken into account, that the resolution body, in the sense of its representatives, does not have the ability to vote, but has the possibility of professional self-port, it is also important in this context that I see that the parallel between this council and this committee can be drawn. It is very good, therefore, that instead of these, I will use the word crazy, 21st Commission which has not been established, at the state level we will now have only one commission and it is a very big step forward and it should be welcomed and already some colleagues have welcomed it, it is a good step ahead and it is good that these people will have compensation for their work and it is good that this citizen surveillance will live and it is good that it goes through the board as proposed for human rights and national minorities here. The birthplace, the labour force, the pardon, the position of police officers is important, and it's also important, we've heard from previous discussions that for the same job both cops and cops are paid equally, so I didn't make much of a mistake in this lapus. So the working position of police officers is important, but they're also important material rights and we could say that this bill in the first reading actually regulates exactly, let's say, these two essential facts, plus this commission, plus the housing fee. I would apostrophe it as perhaps 4 or 5 of the most important facts, even though all of these facts here that are suggested are equally important. And to conclude, we've heard from previous discussions that the police have been paid off and we agree with that, but for the sake of truth and for the sake of fact, let's also say that this government, the Ministry's budget, has increased by 97 million kuna, and of which, for the salaries and costs of the police, 50 million kuna is an increase. So when it's said that nothing is done, it's not true, it's true what I just said and these are facts, and what's said before is said in a malicious spirit, not in a spirit of fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135701	Thank you, too. Several replicas, the first line was sought by Mr. Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, you mentioned, some today have tried to impose the thesis on how this law is and how this law deprives the police of authority. In nature, the police will lose authority with this law. What do you think of such an attitude and such an approach because, as we all know it, it is through a professional relationship that the police solidify their authority on the ground. So a more positive attitude is needed because here we hear today many advocate better conditions for police, as many young officers as possible, as many young people engage, and just by presenting such negative examples, we will close the door to positive energy among our young people to go and be police officers on such strong and responsible jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135703	Answer, ma'am. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135704	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well, as I just said earlier, so, you heard a whole series of contradictions, what you've apostrophe specifically said by Agent Beljak that the police would lose authority by this law so that three sentences later if we listened to him carefully, exactly the opposite said the police were politicizing and the police should not have too much authority. So, he was contradictory to himself in his own debate, it just means he didn't read this law, this bill, it's not about any police authority, if we compromise the powers of the Croatian police in relation to the powers of some other police, for example an American who may be an extreme example, but some European police, it's all at the same level, at the level at which they should be in organised democratic societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135705	Mr. Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135706	Thank you. My colleague, you mentioned, or pointed out, that as a good thing of housing compensation. However, we should be aware that as much as we should welcome it, we must count with restrictions in tourist counties or places, especially in the peak season when this fee will probably not be enough. The request should therefore be extended in such a way as to ensure that, in this case or in the MUP, housing at a price which will be marketed, but under the control of the ministry and on the other hand probably extend with a requirement that will not be able to enter this law, but into another law where, for the needs of the Ministry and the police, a number of social property apartments could then be provided for the use of police officers and employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135707	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135708	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Tudjman, I can fully agree with you, this is a very constructive proposal and I believe that you and all of us here well-intentioned would like the police to have as much budget as possible, so that they allow those young people and girls who go out of the apartment to fully cover their expenses. At this point obviously, unfortunately, it's not possible, but I hope there will come a time when and it will be possible. This is a very constructive proposal that is not regulated under this law, but as you have apostrophe, it could be regulated by one other law if this proposal occurs at the level at which we should implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135709	Thank you. Mr. Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135710	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Petriyevcan, you were talking about the material rights of police officers. Knowing the opportunities and knowing that there are many of our Slavics in the Dubrovnik area, the Istrian area, of course, years ago I learned that even in the cars they were sleeping did not have adequate accommodation and, of course, a lot of order should be made on this issue. As far as this government and this ministry are concerned, we can see that this is going forward, that the wages have been raised, that the equipment has been prepared. However, the authority of a police officer must be greater, the powers of a police officer must be greater, it should be allowed, but of course also educate them to do as they say. I personally think that our police are okay, they need to, of course, raise their wages, give them better housing, and they'll be satisfied, and then the citizens will. And, of course, everyone gets to be more happy with our police, which I still think [[Intruder: Thank you]] That's okay, but with a little better conditions and better pay. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135711	Mrs. Devereaux. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135712	Thank you very much, dear dear fellow Misic, of course I will agree with you, as well as with my colleague Tudjman, we would like the budget to be even bigger and that each ministry has enough resources, especially when it comes to such delicate business as the preservation of borders, such as police affairs are very sensitive. At this point we have achieved this increase in the budget by 97 million kuna or budget in the term of this government, whether it will continue to go forward progressively, it depends on the overall economic situation of the Republic of Croatia, and I hope that given that there is hearing, then there will be ways to continue to increase the material legal status of police officers for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135713	Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Vlaho Orepic, he's gone... Please... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No replica, we're talking about replicas, I'm talking about replicas. Mr. Vlaho Orepic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135714	Dear fellow Members, it is clear to me that you are not sufficiently directed into the work of the ministry or police, not that the system is politicised, but that is to the limits. I'm just going to tell you that you have a system where certain employees have skipped seven calls, you have extraordinary promotions without even you even the proposal is not written for extraordinary promotions and so people set themselves up. This mechanism where man and without consent can be moved and this mechanism di is the abolition of the mandate at the lowest level for the police station commander, it is a major tool for political play or political control of the entire system. We should all be clear about this as a society, and we should stand up to it. I'm aware that these are real problems and I know we don't have enough personnel, so we can go to competitions, etc., protect the unemployed eventually, but we're destroying the democratic standard that we've achieved, right, we can't abandon the mandate. and at the lowest levels. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135715	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135716	My dear colleague, I don't agree with you at all. What makes you more expert in police work than I am? If we're talking about a professional aspect, my smallness at the university teaches a segment regarding direct police work, and thanks to the police, you've been a resolute minister for a short time, so in a professional aspect you're not more competent, you can only be more competent in the sense that you're at the same level, and at this point unfortunately you're not. As far as policy politicising is concerned, I specifically said that this law will not have the police politicized, I did not say that the police have not been politicised so far, unfortunately, so thanks to you and your mandate, and some previous mandates of previous resolution ministers, the police have been politicised, but they will not be with this bill, that is a significant difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135717	Mr. Angel's Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135718	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, colleagues. You have devoted one part of your debate to the growth of the MUP budget, of course it should have been done and improved the material status of police officers, and among other things in the mandate of this government there are 34 million kunas for clothing and footwear, 54 million kuna for protective vests, 37 million kuna for radio communications, and numerous police stations and accommodations have been restored, and of course this Law provides for compensation for the apartment. Most of the officers have been transferred to the Istrian and Dubrovnik-Neretva police department. A thousand kunas that will solve their cost of accommodation will certainly not, but that they will raise their quality of life a little bit, they will.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135719	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135720	Thank you very much. So I fully agree, as well as my former colleague Tudjman, that he apostropheed that this is not a sufficient amount, but that is what at this point can be maximumly given in view of this budget or budget that we have, but it is important to say that, in addition to the budget funds of the European Funds, he is making the most of the funds of the European Funds and it is primarily related to these activities for illegal migrations, so we have this Fund, the European Fund, and the MIP has already withdrawn one amount of funds, I can say exactly how much, and I will not even say flat-rately, but I know that this Fund has been used to one extent, and what you have mentioned the equipment of the police in terms of technical equipment and clothing, it is precisely from this Migration Fund that bought equipment, in this way is also a disbursed state budget, which would say that this fund should be even more used to further spread the state budget, not only this institution and other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135721	Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135722	Thank you very much. My colleagues, I will refer to that part of your debate in which you spoke about the working-legal position of police officers, and I will certainly agree with you to amend and supplement this Act contributes in every respect to improving or improving the working-law status of police officers. However, some of the provisions of this Act regulate and conditions for admission to police service, reducing the threshold for entering the police service from a completed four-year-old to a three-year high school. Now this reduction of thresholds, criteria actually, is interpreted in different ways, and I'm really interested in your opinion whether it's that lowering the criteria for entering the police service from a four-year-old to a completed three-year high school is actually derogating and reducing the criteria, or perhaps opening up opportunities for employment as many as possible, future police officers we know are missing?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135723	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135724	Thank you very much. So given the lack of interest and the extent to which it is, at this point, police officer's work is still underpaid despite the tendency to increase wages, and despite these costs that have tried to correct themselves here, at this point objectively saying the MUP is not able to ensure further redistribution, let's say, the necessary assistance at the state border, we know that there are about six and a half thousand police officers, but we know that every day more than five hundred reserve officers must be hired to make it all work together at a satisfactory level. Therefore, I would not call it a reduction of criteria, I would call it an extension of a range of potential candidates from which it can be mobilized or shown an interest in police employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135725	Thank you, too. We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135726	Dear Vice President. I will focus this individual debate precisely on this part, which I think is a contribution to the Committee, and I hope that everything that we have said on the Committee so far, will be seriously considered and I hope that these well-intentioned suggestions that have been made, and I must stress that they are given out, regardless of the party colours, that they will be respected and that they will be treated more seriously than in the way that we have now experienced with previous situations or proposals that we consider to be an improvement. I also want to say that usually these temporary solutions are always permanent solutions, so the announcements that we have seen from the very text of the Law, which is that this is actually just one step in the interphase until the adoption of a whole law on police, I hope that we will get such a response here in the Parliament today when it is expected, when such a law is planned to be passed and what it should actually represent. I also hope that it won't be just one of the bombistic announcements that we hear in the situation that will be a major police reform, which, according to your words here today comes down from the 182's to 178 police stations, so all together we've become two, or variants, in fact, these are minimal procedures that I should think of as a regular thing when it's estimated that things can be fixed, both in strategy, and in development. I'm more inclined to deal with serious numbers, one Norway has eight thousand four hundred police officers, a much bigger country than we are, and it has the same number of residents as we, much greater obligations, much longer borders, but well, now it's a question of our discussions in which we haven't succeeded in the changes that were planned so far, which is to reorganize, rationalise how we act and work. At this point, so, you said there were about 20200 police officers in the Republic of Croatia when you took down the cca. 3000-3500 crime cops, when you take down 1750 intervention officers, when you move 330 Special Forces, when you turn 6200 or, as your colleague said, 6500 border cops, slowly then we finally get there to really have a few cops. I am inclined to talk about a better organisation of the stations themselves, and even those reorganisations that were planned in the previous period, would do much more than with the announcements that a major reform is made by what 4 or 8 stations are combined into one, it will not contribute to improving even the quality of work. As long as we have more than 1,000 people working on phones, operating centres, and in a situation where they look at shifts and when they look at police work, you actually have four police officers in one police station. Working in the way you're working now, 12, 24, 24, 48, so, these 48 days off, you actually have to have 4 police officers for every job, but it's bad and it's okay for people to rest, but it's bad what that also applies to positions that are in so-called. the cold drive, which means that in those police stations where no crime occurs, especially in winter or in the islands, etc. Or after eight hours in the evening, we haven't made any progress, nor have we made further reorganisation and reform that these police stations and their operational duty are connected to another police station, which doesn't mean that cops can't be in reserve, but also in stand Bay, or in waiting for anything to happen to make it all happen together. As for the increase in the budget and regarding the Police Act, I must stress that there is always another sentence to be said. So at this point, if we have an increase of 95 million, for next year it's going to be a lot more. In this report, and to silence the fact that it's actually a field supplement for officers who from the regular service refer to the border to stop, means the migrant wave that we can talk about today is actually symbolic compared to 2015. The 6200 officers were a condition for joining the EU. So, 6200 border cops we had and then, that was 2013, one of the conditions was complete. Today, the situation is such that by not hiring the reserve police, we actually come up with a variant where it will cost us dearly, in which police officers from Split airport go to Donji Lapac to work, go to Pljesevic or where they are deployed. I think it's very important in that organization and everything else, to handle the exact data. I'm not going to mention now how much of it was obtained on the Schengen Facilitity Fund, where the helicopters, who bought the ships, etc. For the simple reason it's not the money of one minister or some ministry or some government, it's taxpayers' money, so it's just talking about what the priorities are and how much you managed to organize it all together in a way that makes it as little cost to our citizens as possible. Of course, it should point out that EUR 120 million from the Schengen Facilitity Fund was realised with 91% by the date of 2015. Three months later, up to 96%. It is one of the successful models that can actually be taken money from EU funds and how much more than it is today a regular thing with 15% or less. Also, the entire migrant crisis, just for comparison to know, cost 19 million euros. This situation we have today is also mentioning numbers of 85 million, 94 million kuna in the budget, just compare that figure, and then you can know why we are in a situation like this today that these figures have to be explained and that it does not correct the status of police officers, but it just pays them that extraordinary work is not working anymore where they are and where they need to be, but they have to help at the border because of the permeability of the border and the difficult conditions they actually need to do there. I'll also mention that today with all the money that's actually being invested, the question is how successful all this has been done together. Here, I also see this latest news, which is that the European Parliament will also be discussing police actions, but I will stick to the subject, so I won't mention that part for what, I don't think it's good to send a message about the fact that the Republic of Croatia is becoming a dark spot, that we are actually in a situation where our police officers are exposed in a way that they have to do something they're ordered to do. Denying international aid or situations where they are not allowed to seek international assistance, casts a shadow on European values, and I am not talking about whether we can be punished and fined for such behaviour. Therefore, this should also be discussed, and what I want to say at the end of the debate is an important segment of security and trust. Trust is so important that a little move can actually break it. There is only 1% of the security event that makes public perceptions disrupt that sense of security. So, among other things, with this variant that Minister Bozinovic's initiative brought together the police directorship and transferred the blame to laws or papers saying that they allegedly cannot use the information system. Very interesting, so you can't use the information system, then you use this information system to find a place where you'll go to field check. Therefore, the case of Đurjica Klancir is unfortunately an example of how it is not handled, how it is not done and how it should not be done by a police officer, especially what is its basis for respecting the law. The law makes it clear that 10 points are precisely listed for which identity can be established. I repeat, to establish identity, there is no criminal part of honor and reputation, and therefore, instead of covering their ears, instead of saying we're wrong and we won't do it anymore, we're actually blaming some alleged law today or that the police allegedly can't get into the information system and use it as relevant evidence. I have to tell you that in the letter that I received, I'm not going to quote it now, from the MUP, it says, we've done 10,000 checks on the information system at the request of an authority or a private person. At the same time today it is said that this information system without changing the law that follows, cannot be used, it is not absolutely true. And what's very interesting and what I want to point out, and what you can naturally refer to and say, if it's already true that there are more people, was the police at a higher address of Đurjice Klancir when there are more or only went In that reporter's house? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Maybe that'll be an interesting answer. And the opportunity for you to do so [[Intruder: Thank you very much Mr. Ostojic]] respond to the public. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135727	Thank you. You'll have a chance to speak more because you have one replica of Mrs. Devereaux. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135728	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Ostojić, I will agree with you regarding the continued lack of working material rights of police officers and when I spoke about 50 million kunas related to their salary increase then according to objective estimates that the Republic of Croatia could meet all the needs involved, and above all, the preservation of the border and related to this western Balkan route, which is unfortunately still active, should be at least another 50 million kuna, at least another 50 million on this as far as we now have. Therefore, it is an objective state and that the MIP budget would be satisfactory, therefore, to what I have said, even according to objective estimates of 50 million and the question is then how much the working legal status of police officers would be improved or whether these 50 million would be spent evenly on the border police, and whether it would be spent evenly The others, that's the same question. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135729	The answer to the line, Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135730	Dear colleagues, I think we agreed that everyone is interested in being better equipped, better paid, etc. I was once here at HS asking if you expect the minister to be glad he doesn't have any money for the police? So I can't think of that, but this country can single out some of the funds. It therefore needs to be reorganised and then it will not happen that part of the police officers is not equipped enough or that we do not have the resources for what they need to work. It's my main point of the story that we could probably talk about here after the debate and agree and all agree and support it because it's in everyone's best interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135731	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Maras' turn, and I owe you one thing, though. Sir, I'm going to give Mr. Maras's my word right now, so there are no inappropriate reactions, but Mr. Maras wasn't before, he was looking for a replica and he wasn't present, and now the question is whether it's a replica, whether or not you're not looking for a replica, whether or not you're going to lose your word or not, I'm going to interpret that, but I'm going to ask the relevant Committee on the Constitution, the Rules and the political system to give me its opinion on it for the future. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135732	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, this dilemma between the Bucharest and you, you chose the bright side You have chosen [[Intruder: I would ask you not to comment because...]] The bright side [[Please go, go with the debate...]] And thank you, thank you. [[Intruder:...with debate, with debate]] My colleagues and colleagues, here, the topic is a lot of life and it touches a lot of our citizens, not only of course a lot of citizens who are in every day, I would say a certain kind of relationship or doing business with the police, but also police officers who have a lot of it and who constantly warn about their pretty bad situation, lack of people, a lot of complaints there is that there is no problem in the amount of people who are employed in the MUP, but the problem is that the job is organised or that there are a lot of people in the offices, let's say so in a Colloquial way, and that on the other hand, people are spending themselves on the ground and that they simply work in very bad conditions at very, very low wages. And now as this debate lasts, people appear and suggest certain situations that have happened to them, I'm going to make some of them try to get to, I'd say the most qualitative possible law and get to the situation where people will be, and those who work and those who are within the police's activities in contact with them to be satisfied. Here, one of the fresher examples is a lack and warns one colleague, the lack of a team of eyewitnesses covering in the City of Zagreb and the surrounding city of Zagreb with traffic accidents where it says that there are a lot of cases that, in many cases, there is one interesting information, in the area of the entire city of Zagreb and the ring where there are many heavy traffic accidents in general are two teams active while there were sometimes 6 or 8 and then there are situations that simply cannot be qualityd, nor quickly remove certain things that have to be done, so we also had the objection of our famous singer Mr. Houdek who waited for hours precisely because of this reason, due to the lack of unfortunately a team of eyewitnesses in the city of Zagreb to carry out an eyewitness and not the only he is now, because he was something more popular, or something more popular than other citizens, he reached under the media through his social network, was the fact that every day of the city is concerned. And when we say that the situation is good, that the service is being improved, that there are enough material resources, that there are enough people, which is why there are such situations, here, this is one particular question that is plagued by hundreds of our fellow citizens who unfortunately have found themselves in such a situation. And if this information is correct, I also ask you to comment that only two teams working on traffic accidents in the whole city are working on shifts, they cover the City of Zagreb and the ring around the City of Zagreb, meaning one large area involving a million inhabitants, where they happen on a daily basis for dozens of traffic accidents. On that side when we talk about the Police Act, when we talk about the situation that's happening on our streets, it's impossible not to mention this thing. Another thing that we have just warned, many of our people who work as police officers are just leaving, I see this amendment of the law and the reduction of standards for entering the system precisely because of the lack of people who apply, and people don't register because the working conditions are difficult, and the wages are low and logical that people unfortunately have to leave the Republic of Croatia to neighbouring countries, work as drivers, work as construction workers, when wages are inadmissiblely low, and no matter what the Secretary of State said about paying in the past elevator period, obviously it's not enough, it's not just a case in the police, but here it's something that should be, of course, that when I talk about officials, I always point out teachers and education because it's absolutely necessary to invest and improve the material conditions of these people who are raising our children, but also this is one of, I would say, branch or areas of the state where people are simply not to be spared, as they are now. If we want to have quality security, if we want to have satisfied citizens because the state is essentially and there is one of the main foundations, the state is that people in it feel safe otherwise they wouldn't, the state wouldn't even exist. So, on that side, we want security for our citizens, and on that side, we can't care how and how they treat themselves and how they treat police officers. So instead of lowering the criteria and increasing the space where we can hire people, I would be more inclined to increase the wages and material conditions of our officers. The third thing that I think is very important is to say under the firm that it's not a term of five. and that it can be shortened before, I fear, taught by HDZ's experience in the past, that this is not about any testing of the professionality of police chiefs, but about whether they are obedient and politically correct and similar to the ruling party or HDZ. So, if you're okay, if you're listening, if you come to Mayor Zinic's call and agree to make Mrs. Ginić a scarecrow. Miss Klancir, then okay, then you're staying. If you don't do it, and then we'll think about whether you're satisfied this year, next year, and then maybe in the next period, you're not happy. On that side, it's irrelevant whether, of course, it's not irrelevant from the general point of view, police officers and police officers can't be party members and that's okay, but when you set things up so that tomorrow someone can change you because you haven't responded to the mayor or to the influential HDZ in your town, then people still think about it. So it's in the small brain present and I don't think it's normal for us to keep the service or the police under constant press so that they can change and change in a way that isn't transparent enough. And for that reason, here's why I insist, and I would like to add and install additional fuses that will allow citizens to have full confidence that it's the depolitanization of the police, given what's going on now, and this has never happened, so since the 90s, just by the way, be Mrs. President. The klancir was among journalists who were victims of HDZ and in the 1990s, so history is repeated only at a distance from the age of 20, so as not to return associations and those things that I think were not good for the Republic of Croatia and let alone now when we enter the EU, if we wanted European values in the Republic, if we wanted our citizens to live and work and feel as they feel in some other countries in terms of and dealing with officials, I think that there would be a need for these protection mechanisms to be installed, because otherwise it would always be justified to suspect that it was, I said, party staffing, affecting who was in which place, moving your sleeve, doing this to me, do that to me. Also, of course, the big problem is what counterpart Ostojić was saying earlier, accessing data through various powers, then it is difficult to control how citizens can have complete security so that someone does not abuse data or access data that they may not have at that time. So, material conditions must be better for our officers and, on the other hand, make it more efficient, in my opinion, here's what you see every day, more efficient distribution between employees who are on the street with citizens and those who are, that's what the office says, or in ministries and indoors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135733	There is, there is no replica, there is no replica. Respecting the fact that there is no replica, I give my word to Mr. Petar Škorić, who will present his individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135734	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, honourable fellow MPs, secretary of state, here is a lot of discussion about these amendments and additions to the Police Act, we see that everything is being talked about, that there are also those who don't talk about the law, but talk about the budget, talk about the terms, talk about what we talked about when we adopted the budget for this year at the end of the year. The same ones who are practically here today favouring better material rights were giving amendments, they wanted to violate the current degree of material status of a Croatian police officer, but not to go to politicizing, this law is only the ministry has said, so this is a temporary solution to a whole law that will therefore solve these issues much wider, but this law solves three key things. This is a matter of reporting on what is problematic, and then on the work of the commission according to performances which have not been practically established since 2014 because of insufficient interest, as well as the issue of incentives for police service and better conditions for people in certain areas of the country where we cannot ensure the sufficient interest of people. So, first of all, this bill had to amend the provision concerning reporting on police affairs, so there was plenty of debate and objections, now it was proposed that the Chief Director of Police submit a written report to the Minister by 31 March, that the Minister and the Government of the Croatian Parliament by 1 June at the latest. I think this is in everyone's interest, that we have one paragraph, that we have one clear plan and that we know when these reports will come to the Croatian Parliament. In the proposed way, therefore, a lot is clarified and what's even more important here is not just a report on police work that reports, including data only on doing police work, which has been the case so far, but with this practical provision includes all other data on police work, so we'll have one more quality, more content report. The second important segment therefore provides for setting up committees to work on complaints from police officers. To demystify things, we're talking about some kind of civilian surveillance of the police, some kind of commission that's going to supervise who I don't know, so it's primarily about the commission, so that's what protects police officers in, that protects their rights. The commission will have someone else's jurisdiction to work on complaints and decide only on complaints against the ministry's second-degree decision in the cases of complaints against citizens. So, according to the current law, this commission has failed to be established, because every police administration has been scheduled and not been approved, it has not been paid, there is no interest, and now according to this proposal there would be 12 members, 2 from the MUP, 10 from the order of citizens appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament, and I underline that when it is debated by whom a police state is being discussed, or I do not know any police commission, it will be filled in such a way that the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament will call a public tender and the invitation will also be addressed to civil society organisations and organisations of the professional public and other non-governmental organisations, and it also allows private persons to report on the invitation and to be elected to be elected to this commission. We, as the home Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, have already said a lot of debate, we have given a lot of useful suggestions, we see that the promoters are willing to read the main part of these proposals and adopt, so first reading is not necessary, so we need to give suggestions, but we do not need to drag out everything here today and through today's debate they heard through the board's conclusions, I believe that in the second reading they will be corrected. So, which will enable the work and filling out this commission is the introduction of a 5% average net salary fee, whether it's a good model, whether it could have been by the number of performances solved, it's now a matter of assessment and I don't think it's irrelevant at this level of the law to define it. It may also be possible by the Ministry's regulation, in any case we must have motivated members who will do this job and protect people in their performances. And the third thing is therefore a housing fee it's very important when here we have cases of police officers being deployed in places of residence and over 100 km from their residence, when we haven't solved the residence, when there's no charge of costs or between transportation. Especially for us in the coastal part of Croatia, on the islands, here we cannot unfortunately in large cities where we have developed tourism to solve and provide enough sub-optimal apartments for tourists, let alone for residential care.../incomprehensible/... that introducing this issue will essentially allow in certain police administrations, here I primarily think of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Lika-Senjska and Istria, which unsatisfactory fills the jobs of police officers, so I believe that this will allow young police officers, especially after completing their training and courses, to start service in these places. So by solving these accommodation facilities, many of these problems will be solved. Therefore, in order to retain a sufficient number of police officers in police administrations in which they have been deployed, as well as to encourage motivation for police services, and above all to satisfy their social and family opportunities, the introduction of this compensation will significantly improve and in this sense I absolutely support, therefore, everything we have heard through the debate and all suggestions and remarks that we have made until the second reading, I believe that the ministry will prepare them, prepare and deliver HS for adoption. And also, in view of everything we have heard and through the debate, I suggest and resolutely to hand over the full amendments to the law as soon as possible so as to significantly improve the status of a Croatian police officer and in his service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135735	Thank you very much. Several replicas, the first line was sought by Mr. Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Škorić, you have mentioned many unresolved complaints and enquiries, how these issues and many complaints can be resolved, here we have said almost 400 complaints and you have stated that the reason why this has not been resolved is too little interest in working on complaints from police officers. Is this law allowing this commission to finally be formed and how I finally, as I said, solve accumulated problems? In your opinion, do you think that this ministry is also experiencing positive movements in terms of attracting young people through open access, as we have in the Ministry of Defence, means, open door, open access to the future call. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135737	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135738	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Šipic, therefore, throughout the segment, and here after the adoption of the strategy on national security and law, important developments have been seen, with the improvement of the status of members of the armed forces, I see that police are intensively preparing and calling on here and fellow MPs to support and improve these material conditions through the HS and budgets on the work of this commission. You're right, we have over 400 unsolved performances since 2014. Because the commissions weren't formed, I believe that these concepts would be far and wide anymore, but there was no motivation, no interest in people to submit performances when there was no one to solve them, so we proposed by law here, I don't think it was envisaged, but here I suggest that in the second reading, in the transitional and final provisions of the law to propose and a way to resolve these lagging notions that haven't been solved in the past, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135739	Thank you very much. Mrs. Devereaux. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135740	In your discussion, you spoke, among other things, about this motivation, the motivation of police officers for, therefore, including at all in the police service, you talked about regulating the conditions for admission to police service, and already some colleagues and colleagues have mentioned, therefore, the possibility provided by these provisions, which is to be included in the service after completing a three-year period, not four-year high school. Likewise we all know, here and it is pointed out on many occasions that this is a temporary solution, and that the whole law will be passed. In that sense, I find it necessary to mention that it would be good, so here is Mr. Secretary of State with an associate here, to consider High School of Police as a good foundation, therefore, for a good and quality high school education that will prepare future police officers for all specificities of their work. The more the law predicts the possibility of theirs [[Intruder: Thank you]] vertical progression at higher levels. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135741	Thank you very much. Mr. Škorić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135742	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bedekovic, you have mentioned well, here we have debated a lot about what this bill has practically proposed to allow people with a three-year high school to enter the police system. Many oppose, however, when there is no interest in creating conditions. And why is there no interest? Well, there's no interest because unfortunately, it's a matter of material conditions, and it's also about the fact that the previous government, on two occasions, abolished police school, therefore, and in this way we have a problem with the staff, and what I heard from the rest of the ministry, this is primarily about lowering the conditions to fill the police of those parts of the state where we can't have enough interest in police officers, and through internal selection, surely they'll make sure that this, let's say a lower level, temporarily lower level of professional training, doesn't reflect the quality of selection. I believe you'll give the advantage [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Škorić]] People with better and better quality [[Intruder: Thank you]] knowledge and that it will not affect the work of police officers. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135743	Thank you. With us are students and students of Mate Lovrak elementary school from Županje, so let's welcome them with a round of applause... Now it's Mr. Miroslav Tudjman's turn. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135744	Thank you. A colleague of Škorić, today has been spent a lot of time on this committee to work on complaints. However, there was no question that there should also be a police report on data exchange, personal data exchanged by police under international agreements, and this may be the problem of illustration working in this way. We have game riots, individuals, whether they're active or passive participants in these riots, their data is exchanged with other countries, and it can happen to someone in 5, 10 years. Someone pulls out this information that he was a participant in these riots as a data that he can disqualify further. Therefore, I think it would be good to give support to these reports, i.e. that section of police activity to be included in the work reports. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135745	Thank you very much. Mr. Škorić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135746	I agree, I believe that at levels, here's the intelligence system, but here's the international police cooperation, there's this data exchange, but here's all the activity that the police are taking, and even in view of our activities, here we are with the beginning of the EU Presidency. We are taking over practically, and we will host and Eruopol, therefore, parliamentary surveillance of the police system throughout Europe, surely in this coming time, we will open these topics and seek solutions to make this level of information about the perpetrators, delinquents, to exchange and thus to have better peace and security on sports grounds and on everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135747	Mr. Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135748	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you said that this law is actually a temporary solution and that there are many positive shifts. As far as I'm concerned, about the positive shifts I'll agree with you, if there's one by one negative shift I'd like to warn you about, and that's this deficit. We've long since left the militia system where some savage, without a school base, could have beaten you up with a police course. Now it's not the devil we'd go that way if that deficit didn't get fixed. I think we have to think differently, that we shouldn't put it into the law, because, for you and for all of us, the solution is still in the material position of the Croatian police officer, and it is best to resolve it in this way, not to lower the educational criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135749	Here's your answer, Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135750	Here's a respected colleague, I agree that material status would certainly increase interest and that a higher level of education would be more desirable, we would all love, officers, people with colleges, if they were cultural, polite, nice, if they knew how to speak languages, if they knew what, but it has a price. So, we as a state have, therefore, a great... The border and all the large numbers of police officers and according to the possibilities and here, the state budget and everything, we can't change those conditions overnight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, within the framework of existing conditions, solutions are sought, so as not to violate the level of police protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135751	And finally Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135752	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Škorić, you have taxed here all the newspapers, which this law will also bring to the Commission for Objections and this report by the Chief Director of the Croatian Assembly, and it is important that you turn away in your debate, the topic on a quality way, which is a step away from this thesis of opposition, that we are a police state, that we should not trust the police and the rest. But I am glad that you have completed your presentation and that you will fight over the board, in which it is, which is for national security, for future amendments to this law, which is the introduction of this housing fee, we are both from the 10th electoral unit, specifically from Split, and we know how difficult it is for the officers down there, what material status is generally police officers and that the average waiter in Split has a higher salary and better conditions than the Croatian policeman. So I believe in new changes to this paper, housing fees, you have to fight and stop this story, are we a police state... Police [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fight for material status. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135753	Thank you, Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135754	Thank you very much. Well, here we are, listening to the debate and on our committee where the representatives of the government and the opposition were, there were no sonatic tones and there was no politicisation we gave a constructive and also a critical contribution to the bill, with the aim of improving and the promoters themselves appreciated it. So, it's also important on this political stage, that we don't put in any dissension, that we don't put in any inappropriate things, like, I say police state and so on, because we know that from such times we thank God long ago, that we have a modern police force that fulfils our constitution and the law prescribed duty, and the task is for all of us and for this Parliament, and I say, first of all, when we discuss the budget, take care of both better material status and better conditions, and then we will have a more satisfied police officer and a more satisfied citizen, with the work of the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135755	Thank you very much. And Mr. Domagoj Mikulić, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135756	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing this law for a long time now and I don't want to repeat ourselves with colleagues about certain things, but it certainly gives this law one step ahead, that it's better than the previous one, and that we all have a chance together today and we'll have it even better in the second reading. And in particular, I would like to commend here and to file an annual report and the possibility that, basically, at the annual level, right here in the Parliament, we are discussing the state of police. He would briefly refer to several newspapers, which are passed by this law, i.e. the introduction into the service of persons with a three-year high school, in part and agreeing with individual thesis, that a three-year school as an education in professional and specialized professions may not give all the general knowledge as a four-year school, so my proposal may go in the direction of introducing one-year training for young police officers as part of the academy, or perhaps re-establishing a secondary school, so that these same individuals will acquire these additional qualifications, knowledge and skills, which they will certainly need in the course of the occupation of police officers. And they would also remove the doubts that today, as we hear, some colleagues have about the frames, which we are introducing in this way. He would also refer to the deployment of workers within, throughout the Republic of Croatia, since a good part of my generation, mainly from Slavonia, was simply not able to be happy when that large part of young police officers are deployed in Dalmatia, Istria in places where a police officer represents a deficiting profession and thus moves from his homes, moving from his family, from his friends, to the area he essentially knows best. I think that until another reading or perhaps in this whole law that you have announced today, we must find better solutions and certain stimuli in order for young people in these areas where there is no great interest to give them the best possible conditions and thus attract them into this profession. In addition to this allocation, when we talk about housing fees, this law provides for the introduction of a compensation of 1,800 kuna gross and certainly represents one good direction, especially when we consider all the costs we have on the Adriatic, in Istria, mostly in the season when the cost of life is significantly higher. Of course, this will ultimately not solve the whole problem, but it will help our employees to a large extent. But I also thought that the assignment of state, city, municipal, county property or the construction of new properties should be considered precisely in places where a police officer represents a deficit interest which would certainly further stimulate the profession itself by the model applied to doctors, professors, etc., perhaps it is not the subject of specifically this law, but here it is purely to think as one of the possibilities that would be very likely for our officers to enter the service, the incentive to stay in these deployed administrations, and would represent a certain satisfaction with the socioeconomic opportunities of our officers that they have today. Here, so much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135757	Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135758	Here, I think that's my third one, so I'll stick with it. My fellow Mikulić, I am pleased that you have recognized and mentioned, therefore, that you are thinking in the same way as I am, the importance of thinking and serious thinking when it comes to the full law on the reintroduction of a secondary police school for future police officers. So, police schools that would educate young people after completing a 4-year-old primary school for all specificities of police calling that are not easy and not easy at all, and in any case I share your opinion that in 4 years of high school education intended for just future police officers, there is certainly something to learn and teach. The more I stress this proposal, the more envisaged and the provisions that therefore support i.e. allow the vertical promotion of police officers after completing a professional specialist study at the university [[Intruder: Time Mrs. Bedekovic.]] And then later on, the postgraduate level. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135759	Reply Mr Mikulić [[I've never received any warning, so you're giving me at least one. I'm kidding.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135760	I thank my esteemed colleague Bedekovic, so surely we must all be responsible for this occupation together, especially at the time when we plan to enter Schengen, when we are facing the EU presidency, when, when we have almost daily migration to the Republic of Croatia, we are mostly the ones who are illegal. Thus, the conclusion is that we really need professional staff and satisfied police officers for all of these challenges that are facing us today. And I would point out one more time, and here some have called that the SDP government has, on two occasions, abolished a high-school police school and, in that way, partly and here, led us into the situation that we are in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135761	Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135762	Thank you, Vice President, and you and I come from the same neighborhoods, and we know what problems young interns and young police officers have faced so far who have been filling the Adriatic police administrations for many years now, we know that their salary, their receipts have been much less than the price of accommodation in large tourist resorts, and I therefore welcome this introduction of the right to housing compensation to police officers who are more than 100 km away from their place of residence and of course I support these proposals which were made by predecessors in their discussions, the return of police school, would certainly improve the meaning of this part of the deficit that we lack in the staff of young police officers. Of course I'm here to keep this four-year-old, this four-year-old education because I think we should still leave One better level. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135763	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135764	I thank my esteemed colleague Maximchuk, so as we've heard from the Ministry's representative, this is a transitional law and this law wants to bridge the situation we're in today. I may be a little subjective, but the data is such that, in fact, police officers in Slavonia are perhaps the best, maybe that's why they're being deployed throughout the Republic of Croatia, but I certainly believe that even when they adopt a future law, we should work on the education of our personnel, on strengthening our personnel, but also on the assumption that these same personnel are working where they want to be, and not where they're being deployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135765	We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135766	I thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, police officers are now quite neglected, and I believe that this law, in this form, is not going to happen or improve the working conditions of police officers. We have two levels in the police today, it's police officers and those who run the system and someone said today, the average salary is 6 thousand kuna, it's the same to you as when someone eats meat, and someone soups with potatoes, on average it's stew. Police officers, due to their poor wages and poor working conditions and leave the service and as many Croats leave Croatia to do other jobs, but in order to feed their family they must go where the job is better paid. The deployment of police officers away from their families in one form violates the relations of their families because their children would like parents close by, and hence the great cost of going to work and returning, this part that is put into the law that, when they are more than 100 km away, they will be compensated for housing. The MPs, when they're more than 50 kilometers away, get housing fees, so why don't the police officers get that? The difference between them and us is that we can always leave the debate and rest, and when they take office that often takes 12 hours, they can't leave duty and rest, and then we put them in a completely different position. I suggest, here, to the ministry that, and police officers are placed 50 km away, to get compensation for the apartment. Police officers have low wages, poor working conditions, often have transfers that are far from home, are insecure at work, are often threatened, often a police officer is on his own on duty, not two together, but on duty, which I believe is a major threat to their security because we know what geostrategic position we are in, what goes through Croatia, and in this way I find it very irresponsible to put a police officer on the job alone. Unfortunately, we also have police officers who have completed undergraduate and postgraduate studies, but today they cannot progress from a police officer working in the field because they are being counted either by blood cells or otherwise unsuitable. I personally know some examples and people simply think, that after all these educations, they leave the Croatian police because it is simply not worth working for. Unfortunately, there was never any lower trust in the police and never a police officer had any lower authority. Let's remember 30, 40 years ago what the authority of a police officer was, and see what he's like today. And how many groups treat these police officers, and they cannot, in accordance with their powers, change anything or cannot significantly affect these events and those relations with police officers. I have often been in a position where I saw personally where a police officer was insulted, and they could not apply any kind of action to simply prevent it. I'm worried about the statement of attorney Ante Nobile the other day, people can talk about him whatever he wants, one way or another, I'm not going to go into that part where he said this, quote, the government is manipulating, and the police are lying. I don't mean police officers, I mean all these affairs that are happening today, and all of this that we're aware of is that often the police agree with the evidence as they say from the government, which is certainly not good for what I was talking about, for authority, for trust, it's very obvious and it's proof of the state of the Croatian state. That whoever's got the government, he's got everybody else. The tripartite government in Croatia does not function because the government simply manages both the legislative authority and the judicial authority, and the police simply subdued for these, to meet these goals. One example is the mayor of my county, Sisak-Moslavina, Ivo Žinić, who was often seen with his commanders, i.e. The chiefs of the Pu Sisak-Moslavina at lunches, and then it happens that the former chief scares a reporter, it's Mrs. It's a slaughterhouse. What message is that to the Croatian people? That a mayor takes the right to rape the system in the Republic of Croatia and exploits police officers who have to carry out these crazy intentions. The press towards the citizens is pretty big, and every day it gets bigger. We see according to these proposals of the new Transport Act and of the traffic offences where the Dragon Penalties are mentioned, which should in some way force the Croats into order, to bind themselves, not to telephone or know what, are threatened by taking away the vehicle, but those who are doing a large part of the traffic violations, which are members of the golden youth born with a golden spoon under the door that drives angry cars, are doing major problems and huge violations, and are never adequately punished. There is a message about, when such a case happens, and such an accident, often with fatal consequences, that many get away without any great punishments, there should be dragon penalties, not dragon penalties against the incomes of these poor Croats who are barely knocking for some kind of car, and now they need to be peeled to the end through the countless penalties they are threatened with. Unfortunately, all laws that are passed in the Republic of Croatia, including this one, are presented as major reforms, but they do not change anything important and the whole system continues to function. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia is at the top according to the number of police officers per 100,000 inhabitants, that's just over 500, if there were more officers working in the civilian police, that's close to 600 per 100,000, I think it's too much for the Croatian budget and for our economy. We know he's 30. Almost 100% increase in police officers. And what can be read today in the reports and the media that police officers are missing, that there are not enough of them, and then here we go today for one degree in education so that we can hire as many new police officers as possible because, of course, young people know what the situation in the Croatian police is. in relation to police officers, they simply do not want to enroll in such occupations and are no longer as interesting as they used to be. I don't think this law will solve anything, we have to solve something fundamentally about this state, the police and these three kinds of government that we have, only then will we become far more trusted citizens, but also the authority of police officers, and then with a small number of police officers, we will be able to maintain order. I think the government seems afraid of something today, and then a bunch of police officers. We are aware of that, here I am, almost every day morning watching over there in Mandalicino, driving a certain official from this home with two cars, four guards, asking how much this costs to the Croatian people, and what are you afraid of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135767	Mr. Culey, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135768	You're right to say that the Croatian police have fallen authority and that has fallen greatly. When we only remember the cases of Dolaski, the case of the disappearance of weapons from the Varazdin warehouse and the most painful case in the history of the Croatian police, the overrunning of the necessary defence or authority when police officer Sabados knocks Pajcic down on the ground in front of the police administration who soon and dies from all the major injuries he has suffered from his life from the camp, even to this last one, when the same policeman is going to retire because of the stress he experienced in the attack on Pajčić i.e. in defense of the police station from Pajcic. When we see how today Croatian police officers I can retire with severe suffering, and one of them is gone. [[/Intruder: Mr. Culey's time.]] [[Intruder: Mr. Culey time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135769	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135770	Thank you, colleague Culey, for being here, for agreeing with me. There's a lot more to it, leaking information from the highest police offices, stealing valuables and money from a safe in the center of the police, which is scary for this country to make some of that kind of thing go away, manipulating information, texting, all of it to the citizens, and then to believe the police. Unfortunately, this is all the most suffering and that smallest police officer on the ground and direct contact with the citizens, all of this is coming to him and he is the one who suffers and the consequences of the fall of authority. These who are at higher levels, who have fat and decent wages, for them in the police and other things, do not feel it on their skin, but an ordinary officer on the ground who now has to work alone on that ground and I don't know how he'll defend himself. of all that awaits him. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135771	Thank you. Mr. Angelko Striker, with that in mind, to appeal that we stick to what is written in this bill of amendments to the law. In the last few times, stop time, in the last few speeches or replicas, we didn't exactly stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135772	Comrade Lenart, you have stated in your debate that the penalties are getting stricter, which is one part not yet true because we are not discussing them at all, this law does not speak, but when it comes to the agenda, of course we will discuss it with each penalty having one preventive effect. It means that it affects the perpetrators not to repeat it again, among others that can be said and warned. However, what I have reported for, which is that we are the state with the most police officers, I think that is not true, but in any case I would say that we have the longest external border of the EU, that we need to protect about 1350km of the EU land border and of course we need a number of police personnel, among other things, every third police officer in the Republic of Croatia today is dealing with border protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135773	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135774	Thank you. Comrade Striker, we are still not protecting the EU's borders if we have not entered Schengen, when we enter it is not known. I said we are among those who have the most, of us only have some former Republic of Yugoslavia, more police officers on 100,000 inhabitants than the Republic of Croatia, so the penalties have been raised several times for traffic offences, but the number of deaths continues to increase, so it is not a matter of penalties. We are now coming into the area of penalties that citizens will not be able to pay for and we will come up with new executions, new blocked, for traffic violations. It doesn't matter how much punishment it takes to work on some kind of prevention and prevent... Those who savage with subsequent sentences when they kill someone should get 20, 30 years. Prison, not get away with a year and a half probation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135775	I repeat once again, and I underline this, this bill does not say anything, this bill does not write anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135776	Your Honor, may I have a word?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135777	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135778	I answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135779	But I know, but by replicating each other about things they don't write in the law, we'll end up talking about who knows what. Mr. Orepic, he's gone, he's losing his right, and now Mr. Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135780	Dear Chairman, I must say that I am not satisfied with the work of the police more that I have recently been demonized by a false accusation and using even the media or the media of them, it is difficult to say who used who. Anyway, the police made a charge for me that, you know, watch this, this says that I violated public order and peace because I compared the work of the press to Hitler's fascist ideology. Thus, by pointing out symbols, texts and images through public publications on the social network facebook disrupted public order and peace, which caused unrest, dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction among citizens, mostly journalists. And when I saw that accusation, I was confused, I just didn't know what it was about. However, they were upset by the two graphics I published on the facebook and then they filed a misdemeanor report. But why am I saying this? Because when the media circus worked and falsely accused me of calling them all in general, I don't know everything, and that's why the police were calling me against me, that's when all the media reported it. However, now that the verdict of the misdemeanor court has arrived, the fact of the crime and the content of the defendants' actions does not result in the defendant’s full-time journalistic profession, meaning in the present time, and declaring the profession protagonists in promoting the fascist regime and comparing their work with Hitler’s fascist ideology. And then, from the extraction of the parallel according to the way journalists act in the expansion of the fascist regime in the past, it cannot be concluded that journalists in the Republic of Croatia today are protagonists in promoting the fascist regime and that their work is compared with Hitler's fascist ideology, as the prosecutor concludes and argues. And then he says further, that it could be considered that the factual description of the offence stems from the essential features of the crime of the art. 5. The Law on Public Order and Peace Infringement, it is necessary that a factual description of the offenses contains the alleged that the defendant in the public place is by highlighting symbols, texts, images, drawings, disturbing public order and peace, which is undeniable from the fact that the act of the offence does not result, but it is said that the defendant created restlessness, dissatisfaction and anxiety of the citizens, the journalist appeared, now beware of this, without any indication which the citizens or journalists would be. So, the police say the citizens are upset and the journalists aren't saying which, how can they know that they are if they are, why don't they point them out. By the position of this court, in accordance with the provisions of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, be bound by the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 179th century 3. The infringement of the law may apply only to the act referred to in the indictment, otherwise a breach of the provisions of the criminal proceedings would take place and then state further, and therefore this court, based on a statement cited in the legal provision, deeming that the action imposed on the defendant by the factual description of the plea is not an offence, has made a verdict which exempts the defendant from the charge as it is also stated in the sentence of this judgment. And now he says, the decision on the costs of the court's proceedings is based on a provision cited in the verdict of a future defendant released from the indictment, so a fall on the court's burden, that's a verdict on March 27th. But what am I trying to tell you? What I'm trying to tell you is that the police are filing charges against me against a criminal court, and it's clear that what they're charging me with is not a false charge. And why am I telling you this? Because the question is, will these amendments to the law change anything in such mounted police processes where something that's clear doesn't just stand? So, the police simply write some kind of accusation, and every layman who looks at what the police say and what I really wrote and said, look, this isn't true and the court has said it, so here's a court ruling from March 27th this year. The charge of police doesn't stand, there's no basis, it's a fake. However, the question arises for the gentlemen at the MUP will they apologize for me? Will they tell Mr. Pernar, we were mistaken, Mr. Pernar we falsely accused you? Of course not. And why won't they? In my court because the police are in the service of the government and since they are in the service of the government making certain decisions with the aim of discrediting political opponents, that is my opinion. And as much as the media is corrupt, so here's when the media falsely accused me with the police, then everyone's talking about it will be Pernar charged, the police filed a misdemeanor proposal, etc. Ladies and gentlemen. But now that I'm free, now that the media is not writing, Mr. Pernar is freed, no, no, no, the media is silent, they don't fit the verdict. And why isn't the verdict fit them? Because they don't like the truth. One more thing I'm going to tell you, remember when I was accused of surveilling, so DORH dropped that criminal charges. They have been mantrals for months on the trusteeship of dear ladies and gentlemen, but when the DORH said it were, that is, we have no basis for this persecution, but then not all the media said DORH Pernar refused to process it, it is not it or published here, the verdict came that Pernar is not guilty, no, it is not published. The media publish only that and only that where I am accused, called and attacked, and when the verdict of the court releases me or the ruling of the DORH rejects my persecution, then the media don't report it. And I'm asking you why? Why? Why are certain politicians pushing ahead, affirming and supporting, and certain attacks? My guess is that this is because the media are not in the service of truth or public interest but in the service of one of the nation's elites that manages the Republic of Croatia at the moment, which is managed from the outside. To these media owners, I'm pictured, I've stepped on my tail, you know, you're a rat on my tail, and I think I'm those media who lie and deceive the Croatian people, or their owners, and that's why these media are after me and they're selectively declaring me, just what I don't benefit from. And why am I telling you this? Because when the media is muddying and attacking, it's being transmitted a million times, and when I'm free, it's not being transmitted. The goal is what I wrote in the text, the goal through their reporting is to create a picture that is my fault, and then explain to you that you are not guilty and that what they are all mantraus Pernar is guilty, and when the court says Pernar is not guilty, then they are silent, who are mummies, how so? And the question is, why were the police involved in this game? Why are the police aware that this proposal has no basis for still going with my processing? That's the question that's being asked here today, not for me, but tomorrow someone else's going to pack it like that. The system is wrong and evil, malice, dishonest, as well as journalists who work for it, who are in his service. And finally, I'm asking a question to the M.O.P.'s representative, now that the court has dropped this police charge, will the police apologize to me or will they just act like nothing happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135781	As you've seen Mr. Pernar and I hope you appreciate it, that I haven't interrupted you even though you haven't talked about the law at all, but I'm forced not to interrupt you, I'm asking you to write it down, because I've made a mistake not to interrupt you in your statements, let me say so, yes, although I have a few synonyms that I shouldn't say from this pay phone. So, it's yours, your debate is totally inappropriate...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135782	So talk to whoever you want, Mr. Radin, and the fact is, this law won't change... how the police work. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135783	...and I didn't give you a warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135784	And talk to yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135785	...and I didn't break up alone and please you can sit in or out, but shut up. Mr. Radin's warning to the vice president of HS that he didn't interrupt Mr. Pernar. Mr. Angel uncle, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135786	Thank you, Vice President. I'll try to stick to the agenda point so you don't give yourself another warning by any chance because who's going to be running the session in that case. Dear colleagues and colleagues, last week we marked the 28th anniversary of the death of Croatian police officer, director Josip Jovic, the first victim of the Homeland War, and also of the Croatian police, and not at least mention their great contribution to the defence of the country, I do not think it would be correct. Well, I note that during the Homeland War, 75 Croatian police officers were killed on battlefields throughout the Republic of Croatia, 3600 were wounded, 31 are still missing and many have passed through Serbian camps. I also note that many of these officers who went to the defense of our homeland in the 1990s are still working, so they are still in service for the benefit of their fellow citizens and our homeland. The aim of these amendments and the additions that have been here since 2011 since the law was passed, the seventh in a row, or turns out to be changed once a year, means that the goal is to make the police as efficient and efficient as possible and of course that our citizens feel as secure as possible. So I must stress that with everything that has already been pointed out here today about the Board of Appeals, and then on the budget of the ministry that is growing year after year on better equipment and training of police officers, given that there have already been a lot of talk about it and I do not plan to repeat it, but let me say a word related to art. 61st and Art. 60. So, in art. 61st is predicted that if the chief of police administration is assessed as satisfying that this is the possibility of his discharge from office, which I think is okay because in the police department, especially amongst the executive staff, we need to lead the excellence that we have as high-quality management staff as possible. I'll give you two examples. Let's say the Split-Dalmatia, a series of fires, shootings, shootings, drug dealings, the results were nothing until a few months ago. Now he's down as acting Chief of Police and the results are far, far better, even slightly bounced. It's a good example, that everything depends on people, how much they're involved, as far as they know, they can and they want. Or when we're talking about the Varazdinska PU, four years ago. We had a chance to read the papers that the police themselves stole 153 pieces of weapons, a year and three months to take internal surveillance at all seriously and carry out surveillance and still standing somewhere in drawers. And now we have the same great result where, under the leadership of the current chief, half a ton of narcotics has been seized. And that is exactly what any future leadership of the ministry needs to be led to, that the more high-quality people are appointed to these leading positions. When we talk about police station chiefs, they're no longer scheduled to be named 5 years old. That is to say, for a prescribed period, which I also think is good because it will also give the police station chiefs more effort to make their police station work as high as possible. And I'm going to give you an example right now. Saint Helena's checkouts. I think it's inappropriate for you to see a camera cop standing here about 50 meters behind the camera, and on the other side, it stops between 15 and 18 o'clock this afternoon. Who's on the highway then? So those who return from work. Is Saint Helena there at the checkout houses a black dot? How many traffic violations, accidents, deaths, injuries? None. And I guess that's what the police station chief should be worried about, and if he thinks that his result is only measured by the number of offences or punishments, in which case it is considered not a good chief and that he should, of course, be resolved and placed on the insurance of a police station where he can't do any harm to anyone. Also, this law improves the work of the Higher Police School and introduces certain and introduces housing fees for all police officers who from place of residence to their place of work travel beyond 100 km, of course it will improve their standard, but to police officers who are from the continent, and at the help below or as trainees started their service in the Pu Dubrovnik-Neretvain or Istria, however it would be of little use, of course, downstairs should be dealt with in some other way. Today, police, as was important during the Homeland War, are getting more and more important again, are engaged in the repression and terrorism, and today migration, the fight against organised crime, and the fact that not only in our country, but also in the EU, the citizens are taking extreme care of their security, or their safety, tells us that in 2017. The number of licenses to carry firearms in Germany has increased by 10%, which is very much. So the question of security isn't just about us, it's about everywhere. Of course, on this occasion I point out that the police should be congratulated on the excellent job done for migrants, somewhere it is estimated that more than 700,000 have passed through the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian police have done everything great without the economy or society suffering any damage. That the current minister and management of the ministry is taking care of the working conditions tells us that during this term of office of this government and the current minister in the equipment and training of police and police officers 34 million kunas for clothing and footwear, 54 million kuna for the purchase of protective vests, 37 million kuna for radio communications, and that numerous buildings or police facilities have been restored in individual places where even water entered the basement, some have been sneezing and, of course, it should be possible for officers to have as high-quality working conditions as possible. I also note here that at the very beginning of the 91st class of the 17th class of middle police who were involved in the defense or invited to participate in the defenses, which were minors, so they were invited, but when their colleagues heard that they were invited, they just because they were still under the age, they all responded. Today, these pitomats did not receive satisfaction, so they were not rewarded with any honour, so here I appeal to the leadership of the MUP to correct it, because he was a minor, involved in the defense with all his heart, there can be no reason not to do so. Since the current leadership has so far recognized and really improved the work of the police, here I pray and appeal for that to be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135787	Replica Križanić, thank you very much, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, you spoke to your colleague, Strick, about the decision-making of the Commissioner for poor grades. You were talking about billing houses, so I'm asking you if it's normal to put a camera between two strips at 71 km per month and then arrest people at 120 km per hour at a billing house and pay a fine of 1,000 kuna for being a temporary limit of 100 km. Another issue regarding the situation with migrants, given that yesterday there was an incident at Jasenovac where the shooting of migrants by hunters occurred, I am interested in how you see police work in this case and whether police professionalism was at the highest possible level and whether prevention by police in such situations is possible at all and how much prevention of such unkind events by hunters is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135789	Mr. Uncle's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135790	My colleague Križanić, thank you for asking, that in my debate I pointed out that the criteria for work or excellence cannot be the number of penalties charged and that is not good. So, the criterion of excellence can be a small number of traffic accidents, a small number of injured and fewer dead on the roads, and that's what every chief of police administration and the station should be taking care of, and not that his excellence is that as many citizens are punished I especially repeat between 15 and 18 hours when people return from their jobs at home. Speaking of migrants, I reiterate that the police have done their part professionally, the economy, the society has not suffered any harm, and this migrant crisis is still ongoing. Let's not forget that there are still 5,000 migrants in Turkey who keep Turkish authorities in tents, camps where they don't even let camps towards Europe, and Europe pays them almost for it. and EUR 6 billion. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135791	Thank you very much, let's move on with the debate Mr. Sasa Djujic, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135792	Thank you very much Vice President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives from the ministry, so the state of the police is really very difficult, the officers are sorting out once-respected occupations that literally the candidates have been kidnapped, reduced to no more candidates, that they must now lower the criteria for enrolment in the Police Academy for performing police duties as some last measure of this defense. We see that police officers have no authority, we see that police officers are reduced to political persecutors, we also see that police officers are getting harder and harder working conditions, and at the same time their material receipts are below each level. We see that there are no more police officers in Istria, Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Ličko-Senj County, so 3 counties in Croatia are left with no cops and now we have to say it's the way cops import it from other parts of Croatia this into these three counties. However, it is not in other parts of Croatia because many police officers who work in principle are not Croatian citizens, or very, very many of them, there are Croats from BiH, etc., so basically in Croatia there is no longer an interest in being a police officer, it is an interest we can freely say despised. And really, what you're asking the cops to do for 4,5,000 kunas, 6 no matter how much you mention it now, at least this 6 is actually an average, not a real condition, so they shouldn't know how to throw the poor girl out of the house during the raids, they'd have to keep the fans, they'd have to catch the immigrants, the drunks, the junkies, what kind of thugs, the murderers, to write endless reports at the same time, to pick up HDZ bosses, and all that, so often, out of place. Now it's being invented, somehow trying to motivate these officers to accept these transfers anyway by providing them with accommodation outside the apartment, but I haven't been able to figure out the criteria by which accommodation they will be provided, whether it's going to be houses, apartments or rooms I don't know what kind of hotel accommodation is going to be or how the cops will be provided with accommodation and to which money limit. Whether because cops will get that accommodation they will also lose the travel expenses of this, and perhaps they would like to not know at a time when they are not in the service to visit their family and their hometowns at least on a day, two over the weekend, etc. Also, when we talk about this issue of authority here we see that more and more people dare directly challenge the authority of police officers and even physically attack. I come from Međimurje, Mr Katic knows very well what the situation is there, I do not see that this law has in any way strengthened the position of police officers on the ground. And you know very well that in Međimurje the police are fighting, that they are thrown by bars, stones, which are objects, to be literally shoemen, shoes to them. Police officers in Kotoriba have been dissipated by minority members. We're like very sensitive to some woman's rights and it's all right but we're sensitive selectively. I know about cases of cops being beaten up, they didn't report it at all because they often think it doesn't do any good. We know that in Međimurje we have 8% of the minority who commits 80% of the crimes. How will you prevent these percentages from being lessened? Don't think that in any way I want to attack the Roma minority, however, they are also played and deceived by this country but simply the police must play their part in a society that has to be such that there is order where people are otherwise inclined to make a mess. We have a situation. I don't know if it's Mrs. Devereaux. Milka Remenar of the owner of the O.P.G. from Domasinac, sold on the road of vegetables, that Roma came and killed her with a gun in the forehead and shot her on the spot. And what happened after that? Nothing. Now you try to imagine that the Croat killed Roma in the same way. That's where the NATO alliance would land, bomb Zagreb, I don't know what they'd make up for human rights violations and a non-democratic totalitarian state, but these are the things that happen in Međimurje, that's just one example. What are you gonna do? I'm not saying everything has to be solved by the police, I'm not saying she's guilty, but among other things, her role should be strengthened. You complain as many employers in Croatia that there are not enough police officers, that there are not enough quality frames. That problem is very easy to solve. Very easy, too easy. You raise people's wages. I guarantee you that you will give these 1,000-euro salaries which are all full of mouths starting with the President of the State and beyond, tomorrow you will have a few thousand people who will want to get a job with the police. I guarantee it. But what? You want people to do their best, to do their best, I don't know, to be perfect, and on the other hand, to pay them like slaves. And of course it's a disproportionate that just can't be bridged that way. You know Mr. Katic better than I do, much better every day that cops leave the service. Every day they leave, anything better for them to do not only abroad than in Croatia but to harass in that service that bears the name of the Ministry of the Interior. And you will have more problems in the future if this policy continues, you will not only have three counties, but tomorrow only three counties will remain in which you will have officers. Then you'll have to import the Filipinos, I don't know the Pakistanis, so both Serbs and Montenegrins against whom you've raised so much halabuku etc. Then they will be good to you. Apparently already and now in some border areas there are more Serbian police officers than Croats, but I repeat this once again should not be seen on a national basis, a minority basis, any kind of problem than simply on one issue that one occupation is devastated by something that was prestigious, today it is reduced to something that is almost dared to say, a mockery in this country. And then, of course, out of such a state come all these problems that we have already touched here many times, which are multiple, which is illegal police conduct, wasting time on MP Ivan Pernar and on what triviality, marginal things, not to say lame and on the other hand, the big problems the police do not solve. We constantly listen to some streams pass through Croatia, Balkan routes, large amounts of drugs. What route have you broken in the last five years? What kind of seizures do you have? Who? There's even talk that some cops are importing those drugs in their cars. That's what the level of trust in the police has come to. Even if it isn't true, the rumor is terrifying and this actually only maintains the way people think about the Croatian police today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135793	Mr. Allen Prelec asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135794	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bunjac, I absolutely agree with you in that claim when you say you should protect the officers in the performance of your duties. We have come to a democracy and at this point I think we have more anarchy than democracy. You say in your area, the Chakotay there and in that Međimurje area that there were a number of examples. Of course there was a diameter and I absolutely support all those who are to protect the police, but there is no problem with the police, and this has to be solved by this government, the problem is in the judiciary. Thousands of things must have been in practice that cops did their job and judges let criminals, criminals, and all those who don't comply with the law. Here's the problem and another thing you'd just point out in this replica, the elimination of neighborhood cops. I'm the head of a local self-government unit that has 12,000 inhabitants, we used to have a neighborhood cop, the one that would be in the community, today we don't have one, and that's the same thing we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135795	The answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135796	Thank you very much, Agent Prelec. It's not a police issue. Of course, it's the problem with those people who run the Home Office, that's the problem. So simply, these people, instead of improving the system, they're chasing cops who want to work fair, that's problems. In the police if you want to work fairly, not nod and cover up your problems, you'll get hurt. How did the officers who wanted to warn about the crime around Plitvice Lakes go? What do you think? Are they promoted or downgraded? They're downgraded. As the whistles of the police passed, I personally know at least 5 of them. Whether they were rewarded or fired, some of them committed suicide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135797	Thank you, too. Now it will end on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Ranko Ostojic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135798	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. I'll just point out the most important things that we suggest are changed, and it's a good point on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, for a part of these remarks, but I must point out that without that, of course, we won't be able to support such a law. Especially in art. 4. where it has not been solved means a sentence and cannot be called to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it should remain that provision, as it has been so far, which is that the minister submits a report for individual cases, not just a report on police operations once a year. Second, the minister isn't here today either. Probably, unless it's precisely laid down by law, it'll never happen if we see it or report what the police are doing. So this solution in Art. 4. I repeat, it is necessary to decidedly write, in which way it will be presented in this House. They are not accurate information, of course not from colleagues, here, who have said that we will be able to discuss it here, because it has already been decided, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that this report is not going to the plenary session, but at the very session of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. As for the commission, the most important thing, mandatory, without members, the Ministry of the Interior, they may be professional assistance, but cannot be crucial in making decisions in the complaint committee itself. Also, it is a matter of written consent and agreeing to the situation of moving to a lower workplace, I have already explained it in detail at the beginning, but I think it is very important, that here we can take advantage of the situation, move to any position, and that there is actually a situation where someone with a high police calling comes into a situation where a person with a 7-calling lower than him is the head of it, that is something that is absolutely unacceptable and contrary to professionalization and career in the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. police. As for the degradation of the police profession with three-year police schooling, I think it's perfectly clear why we said it, it's not in line with European standards and not to mention, there's a Joseph Jovic police school high school, the goals were, among other things, to replace that high-school police school with general education, that then further, after four years, a police officer, or whoever wants to be a police officer, then practical training, graduation by people who are experienced in police work, and that's actually training a police officer. We will not achieve anything if we go on a variant to lower the criteria, today they expect them to be European-level cops, to know what respect for human rights is, and as we can see, and the minute-to-minute news is coming, that precisely for these reasons, insufficient education, there are situations where they find themselves as a mirror of the state, in the pursuit of illegal activities, and then the whole state, as I have pointed out, can come into a situation where we find ourselves in front of the European Court for failure to comply with the law. What's also important, I think it's very important that the civil surveillance intensities are perfectly clear and what its provisions are, and on the politicisation of the police, I just have to say, in 2011, the official statement of the then minister was that the police were depoliticized. Therefore, if this is the case, then all the tenders that were held at 2400 executive posts were conducted in the depolitic police. So I don't know why it would cause any problem. But obviously, we have further intensities to continue and for that reason I think it's perfectly clear what the intensity is, in fact, these amendments to the law. I will also mention the following, which is that the issue of jobs, which are related to police reporting itself, will be problematic. We have a situation where it might be better for the minister to submit a report on the work of the interior ministry, since he has attached everything from nuclear protection, civil protection, police action, there are no more segments in which the minister is not in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135799	Thank you very much. And, if there were no replicas, and now will speak on behalf of the motionary, finally, State Secretary, Mr. Zarko Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135800	Your Honor, Mr. President, Ms. Representatives and Mr. Representatives. Here's more than a six-hour debate on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, it is a suggestion that better material conditions should be provided for the police, so from the increase in salaries and working conditions, we have allowed decent entry into the service, promotion through the service, and we have finally discussed depolitisation, professionalisation and civil surveillance of police work. First of all, about this first topic, so most of you said that cops' salaries are insufficient and no one can say that neither, but they haven't been those insufficient salaries since yesterday or from this government, so they obviously haven't been following the growth of the wages of the economy and the conditions, the cost of life has been better said for a long time. It's hard at one point to raise salaries more significantly, so by about 20, 30 or more percent, so the salary has been increased and that's what I said to the lowest-paid categories of police officers, during this government of several, on several occasions, but that's still not enough. This government and the ministry will work as hard as it can to raise wages. Labour conditions include working conditions in police administrations and stations that also do not meet the conditions of modern performance. There is further equipment which, when it comes to police very detailed, complex, sometimes sophisticated, so there are both vessels and vehicles, aircraft, there are different protective means of uniforms, shoes, so all that does not exist in many other activities. This all expensive provision is of course a very demanding job, however, and there have been great steps about this being said here, the figures presented by this government and the ministry under this minister have been presented what they have done over the past two years. It also deals with police, so to improve the work and status of police officers, there is a lot of work with local self-government units, with cities and municipalities, especially those who deny where they are, from these areas of these police administrations, there are not enough police officers with a homestead, so where police officers from other counties have to come from. There has also been progress made by many special tourist units of local self-government where tourism is a significant source of income they have provided certain means or accommodation or similar to police officers. All those like us here are aware that safety is the biggest, biggest guarantee of the economic development of this country, that it is a Croatian brand however it may sound to someone, but many foreigners who come to Croatia as the first to notice this security here. Many have mentioned this reduction in the conditions for entering police services, especially the reduction in conditions from 4 to 3 years of schooling required to enter, training for a police officer. Some say it's also the degradation of the profession. And the people who have a three-year and four-year-old school, so they have a full high school here among us today were students of the Engineering and Traffic School of Varazdin where you certainly have four-year professions and three-year-old occupations, so if one driver who finishes Transport School is unworthy and unsuitable to end up in the police department, we don't think he's neither a baker nor a plumber at the expense of an economic technician. I think all of them, and I said they're going through pretty rigorous checks, that if they do, they can be and are very good police officers later. The number of middle-prepared police candidates is somewhat smaller in recent years than one was, it was not only at a time when Minister Ostojic was and before, there were even more applications, 10 or more years ago. The number of applications was gradually dropping, but he was still, not so small he was for 750 seats last year, there were 2,000 candidates. Now in the mid-months, not a full month since the application deadline opened, it has applied as I have told 369 candidates, and the deadline for applications is three months. So we expect to get a sufficient number of quality candidates for the election this year and fill in 750 places that we estimate we need to rebuild and make up for the officers who are leaving. The introduction of severances, i.e. by giving severances to the number of retired police officers, has increased significantly over the years, ranging about 250 to 300. Last year, 600 officers retired, if we're looking at these other departures, so this 750 figure is really new police officers, it's really necessary to fill in all those gaps that come out of service. About the transfer Mr. Ostojić mentioned that this is the main intensity of these changes, to allow police officers with, say, lower personal titles to skip someone who has higher callings, it really doesn't stand, I categorically say. In fact, one part of the police officers is protected by the provisions of the existing law in Article 76, they are police officers who are 5 or less, until they are entitled to retirement, they can only be deployed on a personal request. And those police officers who are more than 20 years of police training, so they spent more than 20 years on police officers' jobs, can only be moved with written consent. However, it was wanted that, at this point, we had more people with higher police titles than we had available for those calls, and that was to be possible for someone to report to a more complex workplace and with, that they didn't have to wait 20 years for a police internship, that they could do so with, say, 10 or 8 years. So there's an open number for, there's an open possibility that more and more police officers are gaining more and more business police titles, and now that number is a bit inconsistencies, and here, that's one of the reasons for these legislative solutions. It was and we think that this law, unlike the 2012 bill, will pass that it will not only be in the Croatian Parliament, but there will be no objections from the European Commission. It was a matter of reserve, we're working on it, it's something that our police need regulation on reserve officers will be in session soon and will then be able to implement themselves in practice. Mrs. Jeckov mentioned on behalf of the SDSS Club the conditions for entering the police service among them and that the candidate was not punished for certain criminal acts and offences and she made a proposal to include criminal acts, that is, violations of domestic violence, we will certainly consider this proposal carefully, and I believe that we will install it in the final draft of the law. The ministry is also following closely, and these are our obligations under constitutional law and by other regulations, to the proportionate representation of members of national minorities, but because of this overall economic situation, it is not always possible and easy to meet this, but candidates, members of national minorities, have the advantage and be careful to do so. As far as the complaints concerning the committee were concerned, there were plenty and so, the Board of Appeals, I apologize, there they are, we have, in particular, focused on the comments of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and, as I said, most of these remarks are very reasonable and I believe that we will install them in the final draft of the law. When I spoke in the opening, about the number of police administrations and stations, I just wanted to say, about the picture and the state and number of police officers, in which I did not speak, as I was imputed to it that it was a reform reduction from 182 to 188... It is simply something that is done in walking, and I believe that every government, every minister and chief director of the police will see what the situation is, and the number of residents in certain areas is changing, and the threat is taking place, and the type of threats is either reducing or increasing the number and police stations, and of course the police officers that are working in them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, he would refer to just a few allegations that were really incorrect here and a point in the eye, perhaps they can echo in public, one remark from Whiteman's representative that he was killed by a police officer who worked here, from Samobor, who worked in Vinkovci. That's not true, the dead police officer, here and we regret the case, was a member of the mobile traffic unit and that mobile unit was working in the entire country and the last task they were on, so where the dead officer participated in the Vinkovci area and they really did return from that task, which lasted about a week at the bottom. During that assignment, they, normally, had their vacation breaks, and everything else as provided for by the regulations. He had prescribed equipment, but here, the accident happened and we regret it. So we don't believe it and we don't think it's the system's fault, but it's just probably the case and the moment of negligence. Representative Pernar said that the Ministry of the Interior was broadcasting fake news when he said that, when we announced that a pregnant woman had been found on Plješevica. What police officers could but, they got the tip, they went, the lady who was found there seemed pregnant, she claimed and the others claimed that she was pregnant, they couldn't determine it, until it was established in the right place, and it was the hospital in Gospić. So it wasn't a defraud of the ministry or that was our intention. Mr. Zeljko Lenart says the number of deaths in traffic is growing. The number of people killed in traffic is constantly falling, however, it does not fall at that pace, as the national programme has been drawn and how we would all like it here. But the number of people killed and killed in traffic is also falling in these changes that will come, but also in the overall actions of the police, we want to make that number fall even more and faster. Dear Mr Ostojic, again mentions the situation at the border and preventing migrants or refugees, I would say, if they are refugees, access to international protection. That's not true, we, I repeat here again, anyone who requests international protection is allowed an application, during that time settles either in our facilities or can choose an object if he can pay for himself, an apartment or a house and wait for the ministry's solution to approve or refuse asylum. The figures speak for themselves, namely at the time while Mr Ostojić was minister, for example I will say in 2014, we had 454 applications for international protection, 2015. 210 requests, 2016, when he was no longer a minister, were 2234 asylum applications, 2017. In 1887 and last year in 1068, so there have been multiple asylum applications in these past 3 years individually than at the time Mr Ostojic was minister. As a consequence, the number of approved asylums was higher, it was 265 last 2018, and the year was 213 more of an approved international protection. Here, respected MPs and MPs have listened carefully, recorded your remarks and working group and the MUP will do everything possible to put the greatest number of these remarks into the final bill, to make it better and to achieve material and all other conditions for better and more effective police work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135801	Thank you, too. Two replicas, first Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135802	Dear Secretary of State, there is, of course, a lot of things that you just said, but I don't have time to say, I'm just going to quote Minister Bozinovic who says that a person who enters Croatia illegally has no right to seek international protection. It was 2017, so don't sell fog to people here. And secondly, during the entire migrant crisis, 21 people sought asylum. Now they're looking for them under duress because they can't make it to Europe, so I guess that's pretty clear to you. I have nothing else to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135803	Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135804	Dear Secretary of State with an associate, you said yourself you need to raise wages and create material conditions for the work of police and police officers and I agree with you. However, it is too slow to go especially for Slavons who are working in Dubrovnik, in southern Dalmatia where they cannot live with wages, many are now leaving the police. And what I want to ask you is, is it true that you've been doing reconnaissances for the last few months on the establishment of a political party in Slavonia, a regional party, is it the job of the police to interfere with the establishment of a political party? The people who were in the founding assembly of 120 were scouted, political pressure is being made not to establish a new political regional party in Slavonia and Baranja. Who's that bothering? Whether it's a police job and when you're done because there's about 120 left, about 14, 15 unexplored who were.../incomprehensible... so ask them too so that it ends so that the party can register that people can act politically and say that we're not satisfied with how they live in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and the police are preventing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135805	Okay. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135806	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police, first reading, P.Z. No. In 573, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Police, and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that 80 votes are for, 18 abstentions, and the conclusion is that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135807	Now one proposal to make 3 laws concerning identical topics, which are: - Proposal for a Water Services Act, first reading, P.Z. number 608 - Proposal for a Water Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 606 and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the financing of the water economy, first reading, P.Z. Number 607 to unite in one debate. Do you agree with this proposal? Yeah, no one's against it. Okay. The proposer is the Government, all of these laws, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as you have seen, relate to the first reading of the law, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Mr Tomislav Ćorić, please welcome, good afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135808	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, you have before you a package of water laws that make up the proposal for a Water Law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act and the Proposal for a Water Services Act in the first reading, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after a comprehensive public debate was held. The proposal of the Water Act as a water power law retains the legal solutions so far for all issues of the water economy as well as in the applicable Water Act. Basic changes to the current Water Act are contained in the exclusion and transposition of water-service matter into a special new law, the Water Services Act, and the correction of certain inconsistencies in the transposition of European water rights into Croatian national legislation. Since 4 amendments and additions to the Water Act have been adopted so far in accordance with the provisions of the single methodological nomotechnical rules need to be passed. The proposal for a Water Act as well as the applicable Water Act and further regulates the legal status of water, water goods, and water buildings, water areas, the adoption of a water management plan and other water management planning documents, water protection and the aquatic environment. This proposal of the Water Act fully provides for continuity in water protection as a good of interest for the Republic of Croatia, which enjoys its special protection in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and also means that there is no possibility of privatising the water resources because the waters are one of our most precious resources around whose status as a common good, I am deeply convinced there is an unquestionable consensus. The same applies to the provisions of the Law relating to the status of Croatian Waters legal persons for the management of waters to which the rules on institutions apply. When we talk about the objectives of water protection, this means, first of all, in the spirit of the EU Water Framework Directive, whose transmission is ensured by the large part of this Law, to ensure a good state of all water, or to prevent further deterioration, and to protect and improve the state of the water ecosystems, as well as the overall water needs, to ensure the necessary quantities of water for different economic and personal needs, to land ecosystems and wetlands, to protect people and their property from floods, and to promote sustainable use of water on the basis of long-term protection of available water resources. Among the most important changes to the current Water Act is that the company's hydrotechnical facilities, which are run by Croatia's only founder according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's conclusion on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions and companies' funds, are integrated into Croatian waters. Also a horizontal inspection which remains in charge of inspection of the application of this Act in accordance with the State Inspectorate Act established in the State Inspectorate. To strengthen himself to the end... The concept of this Act, as well as the Water Services Act, and since we are at the disposal of large grants from the European Union or the Cohesion Funds, there is no economic rationality to go into expensive credit arrangements with private concessions of wastewater treatment devices, therefore there is no longer a legal possibility under this Act to provide waste water treatment activities in concessions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act, this Law provides among other things the financial basis for local investment in the EU dictated projects through development fees. Given the need to provide a national local component for sustainable management of European projects, and to ensure it from development compensation, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act establishes a link between the obligation to implement European projects to provide local funding for the same projects. So far, the development fee has been determined at the level of individual units of local self-government, and the new legislative solution establishes the compensation by a decision of a single public water service provider in the service area through its assembly made up of representatives of all local self-government units in the same service area. This simplifies the process of making a decision on development compensation, according to logic, the compensation of which is used in the service area and decides on all units in the service area together. Furthermore, this Proposal for a Law provides for an additional purpose for a water treatment fee in favour of local self-government units. So far, the funds of this fee have been intended only for the construction and maintenance of coastal drain buildings, and the proposed changes of 10% of the compensation paid to the local self-government unit will be able to pay for the costs incurred in the calculation and charge. The objective of this solution is to provide financial assistance to local self-government units in terms of the settlement of costs that are evident in the collection of the compensation itself. In order to increase efficiency in the management of systems of detailed melioration disposal, it is prescribed that units of regional or regional self-government as owners of those systems through the Croatian Waters and on the basis of an appropriate contract, the funds for the Melioration Disposal or other funds of their budget for the maintenance of these buildings are invested. In the light of the current Water Act, it is prescribed that constructions for detailed melioration disposal are managed by Croatian waters and that the financing of construction and maintenance of buildings for detailed melioration draining is carried out according to the Water Management Plan of Croatian Water Management from revenue from the water treatment fee, the said solution is logical and only possible. This established a legal basis for stable and long-term financing and building management for further melioration disposal. In the Republic of Croatia, there are about 24 thousand kilometres of canals of detailed melioration disposal and only half of it has been brought into functional condition. The other provisions of this applicable Law relating to the melioration disposal remain unchanged, i.e. the funds with the basis of the Melioration Disposal Compensation Receipt, the income of the units of the regional self-government which also make the decision on the same, as well as the accounting and payment of the compensation in question. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, the third law in the package of these laws is the Proposal for a Law on Water Services. The 2008 water management strategy, the water economy roof document, and in response to the challenges presented by today's and future implementation of the EU-oriented investments, and their future operational costs resulting from the construction of wastewater treatment devices and increased investment in the correctness of water for human consumption, has been determined by namely reform of water services, and the establishment of a strategic provision on the integration of water service providers in large service areas. I will repeat my words on the 2008 Water Management Strategy. Today eleven years later, in front of you, the proposal for a Water Services Act is in response to the need to implement exactly the full reform of the water-communal sector in the Republic of Croatia, following extensive analyses that we have carried out in the past period, numerous consultation meetings, the final reforms all key stakeholders, the Association of Cities and municipalities agreed with, the Croatian Water and sewerage group. During this long period since the adoption of the Strategy to date, water management to this proposal for the Law has been several failed attempts at reform. We expect that this proposal of the Law, therefore the Proposal for a Law on Water Services, in the parliamentary debate, will also cause the most remarks and suggestions made by distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs in view of the repercussions of this kind of reform procedure. Let me continue to mention a few important indicators for the public water supply and public sewage activities in the Republic of Croatia. At the state level and public water supply system, 94% of the total population is available, while real integration is slightly lower, is about 86%. As for coverage of public sewage and wastewater treatment systems, this situation is much worse. The possibility of joining the public drain system is still insufficient and is only 56% at the level of the Republic of Croatia, and the actual connection is 53%. This means that municipal waste water still almost at the level of half the population and business entities do not come into purification or collect, do not cleanse in the prescribed way or end up in ground and surface waters. Despite the high possibility of joining public water supply systems, we have a problem with inaccessible large losses from water supply systems, which on average move about 50% at state level. There is also a problem with the existence of about 200 local water pipelines that are not under the management of public suppliers, in which the control of human consumption water health is done irregularly or not carried out at all. In this respect, we must achieve significant development, firstly because of ourselves, in order to achieve the health standards of our citizens, and in order to preserve water and the aquatic environment, without which there will be no economic development of some parts of the Republic of Croatia, especially not the development of tourism which is one of the most significant economic branches in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to achieving the development or reform of the water utility sector, we have committed ourselves in some ways by joining the EU's Republic of Croatia and by taking over the commitments arising from this accession. What is the fundamental objective of this law? The fundamental objective of this law, which can rightly be declared reform law, of the Republic of Croatia, shall ensure that future water price affordability to citizens and business users after the implementation of European projects or investment does not exceed 3% of the net available household income at the annual level. By retaining today's small water supply areas, especially those dominated by the rural population with lower incomes and as small inefficient public suppliers, this goal cannot possibly be posted. In fact, this reform is necessary in view of the significant investment in the water utility sector worth EUR 3.7 billion planned by the end of 2023, which we once again committed to the said Treaty on the accession of the EU. It is obligations under the Directive on the treatment of municipal waste water and the Water Quality Directive for human consumption. The funds available to us from the European funds to address this problem, therefore, await, however, their absorption depends primarily on our administrative, financial, finally on all other capacities. We believe that it is not questionable whether we should reform, but how to implement it as quickly and efficiently as possible, and to make it acceptable for all citizens in the price of water service. We came to these conclusions after a number of studies have been carried out, which showed that this is how the staff sub-suppressed water sector is completely unsustainable, and that it is unable to carry out the projects that I was talking about, and within the specified deadlines, in a way that, after the implementation of these projects, we can make water prices for the users acceptable, so below 3% of the net household income per year. What's going on with the law? The implementation of this law, i.e. full changes in the field, will ensure the availability of a quality water service to all citizens and business users in the Republic of Croatia under uniform conditions in certain service areas, while the activity of water services is maintained in the public sector, which is also the anti-privatisation nature of this Water Services Act. It is important to point out that at this point in the Republic of Croatia there are still 73 units of local self-government which are not the founders of any water service supplier, and they do not at this time exercise their right to develop in terms of water transport infrastructure despite the fact that we have about 190 suppliers in the Republic of Croatia at this point. In order to develop evenly the overall area of the Republic of Croatia this legislative solution ensures access to all units of local self-government in the service area in the core capital of public water service suppliers in that same service area. In order to ensure the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the obligation to integrate existing public suppliers into a single public supplier in the service area is prescribed by joining the largest public supplier in the service area to be formed according to the minimum delivery criteria of two million cubic metres of water per year, with exceptional derogations of 10%. This will implement a rule on one supplier in one service area, which is a capital company whose founders are all local self-government units in the same service area. Furthermore, the basics of the establishment of future integrated single public water service providers are set out. In view of the fact that the establishment form of a public water service provider as a commercial company is maintained for the company assembly, the powers of the company are reserved by making the most important decisions for the management of the company, therefore, the business plan, the decision on the price of water services, development compensation decisions, general conditions for the delivery of water services, etc. One of the most important parts of the business plan is the construction and maintenance of municipal water buildings, and the borrowing plan in the section relating to the same construction. In order to avoid majorisation of major units of local self-government as members of society over smaller ones, and also to prevent obstruction of small units of local self-government, the institute so called. double majority when making the most important decisions, it is a business plan on the price of water services, general conditions of supply of water services, development compensation decisions, annual report on the implementation of the business plan. Given that the price of water service is one of the most important issues for our citizens, assumptions are being created for equating the price of water in the service area, which is particularly important for our rarely populated areas, especially the islands, mountainous mountainous areas, where otherwise the real price of water, especially after European investments, would be extremely high while the proposed way of equating. At the same time, a comprehensive economic regulation of the price of water services and development fees is established through the Water Services Council, which aims to prevent monopoly and high tariffs, but also underrated tariffs. The independent economic regulator in the form of a water service council at central state level shall act to ensure a systematic and uniform economic analysis and control of the costs of a single public water service provider and to ensure the socially affordable price of water services. It is particularly important to highlight and respect our citizens as consumers and their protection that it is proposed to prescribe a prior and public consultation obligation in the price of water services and general conditions of supply of water services in a particular water area. In addition, the social price of water services applied universally to both public water supply and public disposal, including the treatment of waste water, for both fixed and variable parts of the price of water services, so far applied only to the variable part of the water service price and public water supply. Further to this law, for the purpose of rational water consumption and payments towards real consumption, the right to install individual waterways for a specific part of the property in already built buildings is prescribed if technical assumptions exist while so far this right has only been established for new construction. Respecting the need for permanent access to water for human consumption, the delivery obligation is prescribed to ensure alternative delivery or availability of human consumption water for a minimum of 50 liters per household member per day, even in the case of curtailed suspensions, for example due to non-payment or damage to the waterworks. The Croatian water services sector has had a period of less than or more spontaneous and unorthodox developmental pathways since 2008 and 2009 respectively, which has reached its institutional limits today when we are faced with dictated EU investments. We are aware of all its limitations and shortcomings and it is clear that the path drawn up by the 2008 Water Management Strategy was correct, however, but the reform that was then to come to this day did not take place, so we believe that this reform is the only option that has no alternative. The provisions of this proposal of the law identified in detail the main problems of the water services sector and carefully balanced the rights, obligations and responsibilities of all its actors. As I said at the beginning of the presentation of this piece of legislative solutions in addition to the draft Water Act or the proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act, the Water Services Act is indeed a legislative act that represents, at least in a legislative sense, a complete shift in the water and commercial economy sector in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the adoption of this law and implementation, above all, the integration on the ground, in the context of the reduction above all, of the number of suppliers, the creation of a significantly smaller number of water-service areas, carries with us exactly what we, as the legislator of this law, and this is, above all, a reduction in the price of water services for all our citizens and citizens below the level of 3% of the net income available per household per year, this is a chance for small systems above all, systems in municipalities and cities located on the periphery of large systems and which so far have not experienced the necessary investments and finally as a result of their increase and living standards of their citizens. This is therefore a whole series of positive externalities resulting from integration or reform of the water-communal sector. We hope that you MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament will recognize these ideas behind the law, indeed behind the law which in itself represents a significant reform in the functioning of the current water-communal economy systems in the Republic of Croatia, especially representatives and representatives representing our municipalities and cities, so the mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors, because indeed such an integrated system, or solution that it carries, we hold a benefit for the vast majority of our citizens and for the system as a whole. Thank you very much once again and in advance, thank you for your constructive discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135809	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for asking for half of the MPs present, 15. Let's go in turn, Mr. Uncle's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135810	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. Of course I support the adoption of these laws, water is the resource of the future, and we need to do everything we can to protect them and manage them rationally. In addition, I must express my satisfaction with the work of the Ministry and Croatian Waters and of course the Government as a whole when it comes to investments in the area of investment in the area of the Varazdin County. I think everyone knows that the area of the Varazdin County is rich in water, the area where 4 rivers flow, Drava, Plitvica, Bednja, Lonja and that they should be protected, of course, and that is why seven agglomerations of about a billion and 700 million kuna are being built. In parallel with this we are building defenses against the harmful action of water or the embankment, yesterday we had the opportunity to sign the first contract regarding the municipality of Cestica worth 26 million kunas and to prepare further defences against the harmful activities of the Bednja River and Plitvice worth over 200 million kuna and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135811	Mr. Uncle, thank you. Do you want to answer or will you end up? Okay, you let me know when you want to answer. He's got another replica, Mr. Vranish. Mrs. Vranjesh, I'm sorry, I can't stand to change my last name, please, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135812	Dear Ministers, from the area I come from, water services are provided by the Makarska water pipeline with almost 4 million cubic cc's of delivered water. According to this law, what we see as delivered water can act as an independent but we also know that this law does not guarantee that this area will remain independent. Therefore, we need to look at other articles because when we look at how it is considered in the case of joining the management of this area, it seems that our area next to which we would join in the management of such an area would already be in advantage, stronger, greater and stronger arguments and voting would have an area that drained 100 liters of water, chlorinated it, delivered, of which 100 liters would only charge 8 who in the past purposefully spent an asset including the funds of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the funds that were written off such debts, so I consider solidarity to be but not intended spending, and that those who are not able to participate more strongly in the management than those who have really worried about reducing that part of the water loss and do not charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135813	Thank you very much, ma'am. You're coming back. All right, Mr. Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135814	Mr. Minister, in the law you're proposing in relation to the existing Water Act, if I've noticed correctly, you've completely left out a chapter that seems to me to be the only one left out in the new bill, which is a chapter on public water supply and public discharge. And you have incorporated several provisions on a public supplier this second law, however, which states that public water supply, the public service of interest for local self-government units, is that it is actually gone because all that is contained in this law is perhaps only in some of the provisions that you have incorporated into this new law which you propose in the areas, but the most important part of which I do not think you have installed, and I think it was a better solution that you kept the whole public water supply chapter in the proposed law because we do not have that activity in the Law on the municipal economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135815	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Prelec, but no, you want to answer, please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135816	Let me first of all thank the esteemed representative for the suggestion, or commentary, which is the Water Act of Articles 4 and 5, Article 4 refers to the general interest and public service and Article 5 refers to the principles of which you speak. We are absolutely ready for further comments and clarifications if necessary, but we believe that we have not left out the most significant part of the provisions that you mention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135817	Let's move on, Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135818	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Your Honor. Well, I can say that these are good laws, all three laws, and maybe with some extras between these two readings, that these will be laws that we will absolutely support. We can even say that they are in one piece and reform. But I would now make one finding, which is that the SDP government is still in 2015 in the draft Water Services Act proposal, in 2015 consulting with the interested public, in the 5th month. and in the 9th month. A public debate would make one such almost I would say the same law which, in one great, great deed, is as much as this law that you are offering today. Did you, with this finding, give such a similar draft of the SDP government another 2015 in the procedure and is that correct in your opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135819	Thank you, too. Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135820	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister with his associates. So here I'm going to have one comment on this law and it actually refers to service areas, or to the criteria of these 2 million m3 that have been overlooked here, I don't think it's a good thing that this is the only criterion, that we should take into account both self-sustainability, one financial stability, one efficiency of public suppliers in the service areas that are predicted, which we haven't even got here in law, we still don't know about them and actually allow those public suppliers who deliver less water than these 2 million also to form service areas. We have numerous examples of water supply systems operating throughout Croatia and are self-sustainable, so they finance their regular activities from their incomes, and so far, for example, capital investments have been financed from the budget of local self-government units, which remains now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135821	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135822	I would like to thank you for your comment, Mr. Weldergaj. But the idea is not exactly that those who are successful stay alone. The idea of integration and indeed this form of integration necessarily carries with it those who are successful in their own but what we call it such, therefore their knowledge and experience both ultimately and administrative and financial capacity in the circle as leaders share with those weak. At this time, or over a long period of years, we have just had the final fragmentation of the water-communal service system in the Rh where strong, large, not necessarily large but very well functioning and the weaker are left behind or left to the mercy and merciless conditions which are very often not good. The integration system, i.e. the creation of service areas and a significantly smaller number of suppliers, is now going towards a better or permanent better solution by pooling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135823	Thank you, too. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Yes, these laws have their reformal characteristics, and I basically support them in such a way other than the Law on Waters, which the explicators cannot support because of Article 110, because 10 years behind us from 2009 to 2019 is a ban on the exploitation of gravel and sand at non-renewable sources, but that title is so much in the eyes that nothing can happen in these 10 years, all the businessmen have failed, the rivers are full of floods, the waterways are clogged, the deposits are still standing today, the exploitation that has been provided in further paragraphs 2 and 3. absolutely no one has received in these 10 years because unless we change this article 110 to be at the beginning of the exploitation ban, I will certainly not vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135825	Time. Mr. Djakic, thank you, thank you for understanding. Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135826	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, today in my debate I will talk about the damages of natural disasters after the floods resulting from the spilling of rivers from my troughs. This is, among other things, attributable to not cleaning up the riverbed and the accumulation of gravel and sand, resulting in the rise of the trough. Some new information that we received on the board today suggests that the riverbeds are still not rising, so I'm wondering if you or your assistant can answer, especially on the Drava River because of the hydrocenter. This comment of yours would be important to me in some further judgments because information comes from one side that the riverbeds are rising because of the deposits of gravel and sand, and on the other hand, the profession says that it is not true. If you can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135827	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135828	I thank my colleague Križanić first of all for your comment but also for the question. There is indeed a part of the public view that in the last 10 years there has been a rise in riverbeds, the waist goes in a different direction. It says that, in fact, in the last 10 years, a whole series of factors have been deepening the riverbeds in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, these phenomena, or phenomena, are primarily phenomena that need to be explained by the waist, so I wouldn’t go into detailed analysis even though they are as accessible as we know them, but about that. As regards exploitation as a way of solving this problem I will remind above all of the fact that the Republic of Croatia and 37% of the land territory of the Republic of Croatia is under Natura 2000, which means significant compliance with the rules it carries in respect of the plant and animal world. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135829	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135830	Thank you very much, Ministers' goal is to make it as cheap as possible for the water to be, that suppliers in service areas that are not now defined except for the m3 you listed are not defined, that the goal is to be cheaper water. Of course it could just be. Let's cancel the water VAT which would be minimum minimum because water is our wealth, national and all of us citizens, that's first. Secondly, we must protect your efforts to ensure that we have water supplies, for example. in Split because Jadro has been poisoned, we know that people do not use in Split for days of water, while at the same time the sources of the Cetina River with harmful projects want to be destroyed, and mainly with in Lečevica with a waste disposal regional. We try to protect first of all that we have the ability to deliver water in these areas at all, and not by bad moves of ecological to the heart of the Dalmatian mountain, to make it a regional waste dump, so the same thing will happen to us on the Marines, and we know that there are underground rivers, that we have huge ones. The vastly connected and this karst area. [[Intruder: Time.]] Protect it will be much more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135831	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135832	Dear Representative Bulj, first of all, I appreciate your efforts to protect the environment in the context of your criticism, or your exposure, you have listed a whole series of environmental aspects, since I am not at that level of expertise that you have shown I will give up a whole series of answers that I should give. So our goal is to make the price of water affordable and this legal framework offers itself. Without integration, project realization, agglomeration especially as I said on the peripheral parts of the system will do so that the final price of water services will be significantly higher than 3% of the net income available per household per year and that is what we want to avoid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135833	Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135834	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for mentioning EU funds, and by now over EUR 1 billion will be available these days to locate almost everything on projects prepared in Croatian waters and your ministry. The criticism is that you are slowly preparing projects, and the evidence is that so far it has been agreed or carried out and only 9.6% are situationed. Why is it so, why is it so slow? We fail to withdraw these funds and employ home building and ensure the availability of water. And the second question, why are you solving by regulation, by a regulation of the Government of these 35 water suppliers for water areas, why didn't it go public through the law and not the Government, you want to make a political decision again and whether the water from Vinkovci will be taken over and Slavonski Brod as the Sikirevce took over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135835	Mr. Minister's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135836	Dear Representative Vlaovic, therefore thank you for your questions and comments, so the regulation is primarily there to fill the space until the law is passed, as regards this first part of your question about the usability of European funds, so the Operational Programme provides for a billion and fifty million euro of competitiveness and cohesion for the water economy area. You've made a good point, we've arranged for an entire allocation at the moment, and in fact, a slightly larger amount has been agreed. What I want to point out, and you are probably aware of it and you are probably aware of it is the fact that the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Water are not users of these funds, the users of these funds are local water pipelines, or water utility companies, and the only thing that depends on them is the dynamics of realisation. So definitely not about me, about you, about the ministry, about Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135837	Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135838	Thank you very much, Vice President, and I welcome the minister and assistant minister. Definitely rounding means a good solution for many of Croatia's environments, so I agree. However, what stings the eyes is the existence of a single criterion and this is so diverse for the country, so it cannot be one single criterion and that is the amount of water delivered annually. And the best thing to do is to explain in the answers that there is a service area, multiplely simulated analysis, so an analysis that has more... Simulation, so I'm wondering if there's a document and can you see it as some technical basis for such a decision? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135839	Thank you very much. Yes, here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135840	First of all, Mr. Dobrovic commented on the way and supported the integration of water-service areas. As regards the rounding criteria, yes, indeed Croatia is a country that carries it in certain regions, in certain areas, counties at the level of units of local self-government a whole series of specificities and I will fully agree with you, Mr Dobrovic, but we must bear in mind the fact that these are exceptions that confirm the rules. So this reform, or this legislative package, first and foremost, of the Water Services Act, wants to create a regulation. All studies or all simulations have shown that below the level of 2 million m3 the simple integration process and its results ultimately do not work with the number of areas and their size, which can ultimately function positively after European projects, all studies were conducted at the level of Croatian Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135841	Thank you. Mr. Bunzak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135842	Thank you very much. Minister Coric, so Croatia is according to statistics, the country that has the most water in the EU per capita. And now I'm curious if we're the richest country with water, how is it that the cube of water in Zagreb costs about 1 kn more than in Germany and the Netherlands, for about 6 kn more than in Sweden, almost 200% more than in Hungary, how do you comment on the fact that in Ireland water is free and even that in Saudi Arabia, which has no water sources at all than it gets from the sea, a liter of water costs less than 1 kn? So how is it possible that Croatia has the most expensive water as the richest country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135843	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135844	I thank Mr. Bunyan for his remarks. On a whole series of issues, Mr. Bunjac, I really don't have the information you showed in your presentation, but this is a question of my incomplete information regarding the price of water in the countries you listed. However, what I can explain is the price of water compared to other systems. It does not stem from the fact that a country in reserves is plentiful or not abundant in huge quantities of water, it comes primarily from the costs of investing depreciation or maintaining systems that work in a country. I have stated in my opening presentation and we cannot escape from it, it is ultimately the fruit of the functioning of the system in the last 70 years that at this point in Croatia we are losing 50% of the water, so it tells you first and foremost in favour of the state of the system as such, and we and this reform can and must change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135845	Thank you, too. Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. They absolutely support this Proposal for a Law on Service Water Areas, we all know and I come from rural parts of Croatia that our small businesses are working more or more on the border of rentability and there is a simple shooting, the only way to survive them but also people in this area is to surround them with larger systems where they can patch up losses and repair certain gaps in water networks. We know the fact that the space of Croatia is empty, not the space of Split or Zagreb is empty, but the empty space of rural areas and that small number of users are felt every year by the consumption of just those most critical water suppliers. Therefore, I believe that this law is the law that will leave the company alive through greater roundings and people in these areas because it will rapidly reduce the price of water.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135847	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135848	Thank you very much, Mr. Pranic. Thank you very much for your comment and for your support. Indeed, I will also point out once again, the integration that this set of laws, in particular the Water Services Act, is a process that leads to a level of small very often neglected parts of the system compared to large parts of the system that are successful financially and humanely strong enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135849	- Mrs. Crescent. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135850	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you're here today and you can answer these questions. I come from a region which is actually used by water and the most actually drinking water depends on the quality of the water of Krka and we know that NP Krka is on the river Krka and it is really important for us and that quality management is also very important for these public institutions, so here is when you haven't already left, chosen in this new competition for a man who has managed national park for 4 years, a little less, and then your selection criteria are very surprising, although it is your internal problems but it is worrying that a doctorate is still not important in choosing candidates.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135851	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135852	I thank Mrs. Alfirev for your comment, I must confess that the course of your thoughts in asking this question has actually offered me to answer, congratulations on that. So, as regards the management of Krka National Park in the context of the fact that it is located in the area from which you come, if I understand correctly, I am sure that management will be no problem. At the moment when the new director of Krka National Park was elected, I also cited it, I wished her above all that the Krka National Park led more successfully than the previous director, who I thanked for everything in his four-year term and did. So much for answering your question. As for the doctorate of science as such, I will point out once again the fact that it is in this, and I believe that the Croatian public will ultimately be interested in the fact that in this process, the expert commission focused primarily on the candidate's work plan and the discussion of its plans led before the expert committee. And in that context, we believe that we have chosen the best candidate. And I listened to my professional commission. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135853	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135854	Thank you Vice-President of the Assembly, Your Honor, I believe that this is a nice step in changing these laws and reducing water delivery, that one of those 20, 30 totals will be able to conduct a better account, water quality bills, the quality of everything at the end and the system itself from one place rather than from 15 places. I think this is good with what I think should be taken care of and water prices, of course, I hope that in the future and water will be leveled somewhere and even reduced if these 50% you just said don't point out somewhere in the country is whether, which we're not following. Since we are rich in water, I hope in the future that even citizens will feel the change at prices, which vary somewhere and are even too expensive to see today like they're on the market. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135855	To answer, you want to answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135856	Dear Representative Mišic, above all, thanks to the support of the law, is indeed one of the key objectives of this integration and everything that comes after it, therefore, according to the realisation of European projects, the water price is affordable for our citizens, but also safe and clean, therefore healthy water. Once again, I will emphasise the fact that at this point in the Republic of Croatia, 200 local water pipelines are operating in which we are unable to control the conditions of water delivery to our citizens and citizens. And it's simply not possible in the long run and we can't tolerate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135857	And finally, Mr. Sagar, under G.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135858	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, if you look at the Slavonia project, then you can see that the most serious projects and the most issued are right in the water supply and disposal area. In this respect, this law is not only our choice but also the necessity and I understand on this side that the rounding is important because this is the issue of withdrawing funds from the EU Funds, in this sense, the rounding is important because we have today many partial pre-liminated projects. There'll probably still be a correction in terms of the population leaving and everything. However, what concerns me in this law, otherwise the law should be supported, I am concerned that you listed here the possibility of managing construction, maintaining irrigation buildings. It's short in the replica to problem this, actually this provision and other thing, you put despite the large systems that are now going to be running the connections onto the water network. I don't think we need it, leave something for the craftsmen to do, I think in this part it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135859	Well, thank you very much. Let's go. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135860	Here, first of all, Mr. Representative, thank you for your comments. As far as this implementation of the plugins is concerned, it is also a practice today, and we haven't gone far from the practice so far. As far as these irrigation structures are concerned, it's actually, that's where we want to step out, let's say that, in a positive direction, at least we think it's possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135861	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, and now let's start with the clubs. First, Mr. Dobrović and Mr. Bulj will perform on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. The first is Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135862	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, I welcome of course Minister Coric and Assistant Kos and I welcome all fellow Members and fellow MPs. Introductoryly, Croatia is rich in water I don't think it's the first one in Europe but it's quite rich in water, I think it's 23,000 m3 per year per man, so it's a renewable energy source. However, the situation is changing and the effects of climate change for Croatia means that there will be fewer and fewer rainfalls, and I think it is already very well seen, so there are whole areas where regular rainfall is missing and, in fact, it is a growing demand on the water economic system that we are dealing with here today. Some have no problems with water, and some will have increasingly serious tasks ahead of them. But to catch myself now, here is a concrete Water Service Act, so there is a very important point of rounding that seeks to solve the problem of many companies that are not therefore at the level of the task, because the issue of water supply is a very complex issue and it is clear that this is a good way to combine the system by helping the underdeveloped, take care of that segment. And here, it stands nicely in the Law, hence the key changes, objectives, the reduction of the loss of affected water, the withdrawal of funds from the European Union Funds, and the harmonisation of the prices of water services and the rationalisation of the business of water service suppliers. However, I have already said in the replica that in the end as the only criterion of establishing these famous two million cubic metres of water delivered annually, I think that before that number, because it has long been discussed, there have been three million, and now there have been two, and many have been asked, can be seen in public debate, what professional bases exist or have served as the basis for establishing such a solid border, so the only criteria for establishing these water-economic areas are not, in fact possible, that, with all the complexity that the water-economy carries with it and with all the diversity that Croatia is spreading because we know what kind of financial business we have, as far as the amount of losses in the network are, is nevertheless one numerical indicator, two million cubic meters, because of course there are many other criteria, so let us say the quality of the financial business of the provider, the current provider of services, then the amount of the total loss in the network, which states that the minister, that, however, there is, there are not all of the general, that there is a lot of the size of the size of the quality of the companies that there are not much of the publiciseds of the quality of the quality of the companies that it. Then how much investment in the new infrastructure or the restoration of old infrastructure, success in projects, so national or regional, European, success in achieving the required water quality, because the requirements for quality water exist for a long time, they are changing and changing, but the quality of water is, sometimes the source is getting worse and more threatened, therefore these are very diverse problems and difficulties to be met. Many, we know that they do it poorly or slowly, of course there is a problem of water quality monitoring in the distribution system because it is a matter of microbiology and disinfectional byproducts, so that is one already, one sophisticated level that some do well, and wherever it is, no. Then geographical position, we know that there are islands, we know that there are areas of vast, powerful, very low population and so on. And so on, these are all criteria, so for many of these there would be a very high-quality background, let's say the state audit. However, to all these observations, the applicant presents one drying text, which literally states, I will also take into account the comments received on the criteria for establishing service areas of two million cubic metres of water delivered, human consumption, the expert holder has amended Article 7(2) based on additional analysis, and reduced by 10%, all below that would be unsustainable, so that is how it stands, the water supply limit of two million cubic metres per service area has been repeatedly simulated as the lower limit for achieving water price affordability up to 3% of the net available household income per year. So that's the criterion, so the affordability of 3%, so for funding from European funds, but this is multiplely simulated and, therefore, obviously some analysis has been made, it would be very good to see it, so if it exists in Croatian waters, it's a shame not to share with the interested public because there is a very long tradition of the water economy, there are very many people who understand it and it's quite reasonable to share knowledge or the results of such analysis, it would be simpler. But the promoter therefore holds 3%, and this additional analysis actually seems to me that it does not exist, but rather it is an arbitration decision of two million cubic metres, because the affordability, definitely on the affordability of 3%, which is one given criterion, must certainly be influenced by the configuration, the flat-rate part, the degree of processing, the density of population, the structure of consumers, the domestic population, the tourism, the industry, and so on. However, the question is also asked whether it is convenient now to make these very significant changes in the course of the investment cycle, and therefore there are very, very big concerns and concerns, especially when there are numerous warnings that if the law is adopted in this way, there could be consequences that are just the opposite of those listed as objectives, so to increase, as it says improving the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds, it might be easy to put them on hold, because there are a series of objections concerning the fact that this Law proposal is in conflict with certain laws, of course the Proposer will not, however, some entities in the country whose opinion should be reviewed certainly claim that there is a problem. A series of contracts on the construction and maintenance of water structures whose realisation is potentially compromised by the adoption of this Act are also concluded, every major change in the legal aspect requires a time of adjustment and we must say that Croatia already has experience that when changing the Public Procurement Act in the course of the implementation of a series of projects, this has resulted in certain pensions, and we certainly do not want to do so. Many are specific situations that will undoubtedly arise by joining these service areas, which is worth a little attention. For example. the aspects of the assets financed through the Eu Funds, the distribution of outstanding costs of infrastructure building, the takeover of pensions from the implementation of EU projects, the unification of accounting, finance, the takeover of labour contracts, etc. Centralization has potential definitely to improve. However, we also need to know that decentralised solutions also have their advantages. Let's not think that only the centralized system is better and that all the advantages are on his side. Today's development of technology and technology has allowed work to be done equally successfully with more decentralised solutions than with a centralised one. So this former scale economy criterion in many places does not hold water. Therefore, when all the gatherings are centralized, so especially in a structure that is oriented to the capital market, though my mouth is full of caution about privatisation, there is still some door open or there is a certain fear, and I would certainly not like it to come to this. Finally, if it did not turn out to be just a criticism, so these legal solutions would bring certain benefits or benefits and would be much greater as such if they did not persist on this unique criterion. And I think the biggest problem in the end is that depopulation from many of our neighborhoods is getting faster and scarier and that all of our struggles about improving various systems fall into the water if we don't commit ourselves to this at the end of the basic problem. Do you want to go on with your friend Bulj?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135863	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135864	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I know I'm not talking about expertise, I'm talking about facts that are on the ground. I asked the ministers what was key. You are the target of this law... Cheaping, so our ultimate goal is to deliver water services to our citizens. [[You don't understand.]] That's the goal. But we have a problem that today in Split at 7, 8 days due to the blizzard of the Adriatic, we have a problem that there are no people delivering water. We have a key problem that we live in the Dalmatian Zagora at the water sources that we need to guard. What are you going to do about it? What will be the solution for these people in Split? Will you damage them by buying water bottled from concessionaires at the source of the Cetina River in a concession that in a few thousand kunas a month draws that water and sells in bottles much more expensive? Will the citizens be compensated? I'm telling you that we must preserve our resources, not that we must protest the Grit factory in Zrmanja where... The processing... so people have to protest where we have harmful energy projects such as the Perun thermal power plant on the largest pool of drinking water not only in Croatia's drinking water pool, but also in Europe. [[You don't understand.]] So we have huge potential, and we have an area where we want to build a dump site. That is, it's been working for years, even though the country hasn't been solved yet. It is Lečevica in the heart of the Dalmatian mountain, and it is connected with submarines and rivers Cetina, and Krka and Zrmanja. So it's a huge area of drinking water potential key resource while around these springs where the water draws these villages don't have and these places don't have water supply. I'm in favour, here I am first in line, suggest you freely to the Minister of Finance that the VAT Act we gave the amendment, abolish VAT on the delivery of water services to our households, to the economies. I'm the first one for that. You suggest it. We don't have to offer it. Your government. I've given the amendment. It's not expertise. It is the fact that several times a year the entire Split area is a pool of 300 thousand people with no water supply. And now he says no more from the Adriatic, now we're going from Cetina. Okay from the tributary of Cetina's area. But we need to protect and protect these areas from harmful projects like Lečevica in the heart is a waste dump, a regional waste dump, as they called it, I don't know. Well, it'll be like Bariscino, and there's groundwater down there. You know that. Speologists have proven it. It's a karst area. We must have a law on the protection of the breach. Protect our river Cetina, Krka, Zrmanja. We must protect this area from these sources, and you forcefully usurp that area to landfills and to regional as an example... Grita in Zrmanja and Termoelectrica Peruca and other garbage. [[You don't understand.]] I hope we cut the VATs. I hope that, I'm not the mayor, Chief, so I don't have to really... So I asked this. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135865	Thank you. Mr. Allen Prelec will now speak before the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135866	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with an associate, so here we have three laws, which I would say, that's the area of water services, which is one of the most important areas of public interest. That we should protect our waters, of course we all agree. That we're a country rich in water, and we all agree. The fact is that we are one of the first 3 countries or someone says, the first 5 countries at the quality and availability of water in Europe, but we must also enable every Croatian citizen, precisely the availability of that water and as low as possible. These three laws, I will try to refer to each of them, some shorter, some longer, go in that direction, and I can say, in principle, I agree with all these three laws. But I'm gonna talk about these things that I don't agree with, and I hope that between the two readings they'll get better. The Water Act, as stated in the assessment of the situation and fundamental issues for the adoption of the law, is mainly a matter of compliance with new laws in water services, as the water municipal theme, transferred from the Water Act, is to the new Water Services Act. The company is also abolished by the daughter of Croatia water, i.e. hydrotechnical facilities and employees, and all employees are attached to Croatian waters. The only objection is in the transitional and final provisions of Article 1(1). 244 for which it is not specified, which will happen if the regional self-government units do not take over the irrigation and mixed buildings after the 36-mj deadline. And that's exactly what's happening. Many counties have not taken over at all... The network. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it was just the Vukovar Srem County that took over all the channels. As far as this Water Act is concerned, that is, 606 P.Z.E. Here, I have no other objections. As far as Law 607 is concerned, that is, the Water Economy Financing Act, I have no objections, that is, to follow the Water Act and the Water Services Act. As far as the Water Services Act is concerned, I'm going to say something in general. In this regard, the Government of the SDP developed a draft proposal for the Water Services Act, which during 2015 passed consultations with the interested public and public debate. However, the bill was not sent to the government of the Republic of Croatia, as we know, the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia was disbanded. I made a decision on the date of parliamentary elections in 2015. Also before the smog law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted a regulation on service areas, which defined 20 service areas in the Republic of Croatia, we are talking about 2015. We have proposed 20 service areas, today, you are probably proposing 35 and 40. I won't go into details. The regulation and the bill were adopted on the basis of several studies and projections for the Republic of Croatia, financed by the World Bank. Also, existing models were studied, Germany, France, England, Scotland, Hungary, and a model was found to fit the most specificities of the Republic of Croatia. This law is really reformal, but the HDZ government is running late, four years into this law. Since we had a bill done. And it is also less reformal, because the SDP government has adopted a regulation on service areas defined in 20 areas, and the HDZ government will, by this law of the regulation, abolish, i.e. a new one, which should be adopted within 3 months, by the number of service areas, probably 35-55 service areas. Whether this reform law is a new form of reaching EU standards, since this financial period, as well, has increased only 5%, only 5% of the 1 billion euros available have been withdrawn. Whether consumers, the end-user, will pay the EU's penalty for a complete fiasco in withdrawing funds from European funds. Because the European Commission has launched a procedure for the penalization of the Republic of Croatia, due to the failure to meet the deadlines set out in the accession treaty. All agglomerations greater than 15... The inhabitants, should have had a built-in wastewater treatment device. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we're warning, we'll be retired, we haven't used a billion euros at our disposal. The SDP generally supports the new Water Services Act, however, we believe that certain important differences in the proposed law are solely political or political in relation to the SDP bill, which was based on all the expertise. The main differences in the proposals for the law also arise, the regulation adopted is defined in 20 service areas on the basis of several criteria. The first was the supply of water for human consumption of at least 3 million cubic metres a year. The lower limit for the achievement of the social economic price of water services, with the possibility of full return, as well as the possibility of business self-sustainability and financial stability. A unique service area covering all water supply areas and all agglomerations within the area, the area in which it covers water, is intended for delivery to end-users, there is no sale of water to one supplier to another, as well as the release of purified wastewater in its area, except for 2 exceptions in Dubrovnik Neretva County which share the state border with the BIH. Thirdly, the legal status of the public supplier, the SDP's bill, provided that the public water service provider should be registered as an institution, because the institutions were not set up to make a profit, while the proposal for a law to the company of capital, i.e. a limited liability company. I think this proposal would be better and safer for every Croatian citizen, as well as for privatisation itself. The question arises, do new, public suppliers form as societies, which will achieve age? At present, the vast majority are operating with a positive zero due to the non-accounting of depreciation and the use of large funds from the state budget of Croatian Waters and smaller from the European Funds for the rehabilitation and construction of municipal building because we are talking throughout the law about the financial stability and business self-sustainability that is very questionable today. I have a few specific grudges about this law. Article 23 is amended as follows: The role of the Society’s Assembly is not management, but the adoption of a regulation because it is a kind of governance and it is normal to have the company’s administration in the power of office. Article 28 states: “None is the provision of a labour contract and of any other contract which allows an employee of a public water service provider who performs tasks with special powers and responsibilities for a specific period of time to be severanced in any event of termination of a work contract or recalls from office.” This is a direct interference in ownership rights. The function of the law is not defined in which the owner will stimulate the director to work. This Regulation shall enter "The public water service provider is obliged to set up a branch at the headquarters of existing water service suppliers that deliver at least 500 thousand cubic metres of water for human consumption per year and retain such a structure for at least two years of... A public water service provider may set up a branch at the headquarters of existing water service suppliers that delivers less than 500 thousand cubic metres of water for human consumption if applicable. [[You don't understand.]] In fact, I'd say this is one small or large pearl that can only be invented by someone who may not be directly involved in all of this and has not managed companies. It would be good to look at what branches are under the Company Act. This structure makes it very difficult to manage newly created public suppliers because we will continue to have parallel systems that will last for several years. It's also a question of how rationalizing it is if we rename existing companies to branches? What kind of rationalization is that? This Regulation shall enter ‘The provisions on consumer protection of consumers on the suspension of the provision of public service while suspending or restricting the delivery referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article shall apply to the suspension and the provision of water delivery by the public service provider at least 50 litres per household per day for a period of at least 8 hours. So let's say we're talking about some socialists. My question is, how are we technically going to provide 50 liters a day per person to the users we took down the water meter for not paying for services, non-payment or social services? How are we gonna measure 50 liters, who's gonna measure it? Unfortunately again, laws are written by people who have not had a chance to participate in certain things. This Regulation shall enter "The director of the water is further authorized to order accession to the municipal water building and other compliance with... regulations whose application is supervised." So, the water communal director gives someone a warrant to join. [[You don't understand.]] It's my question. Who's gonna do the connection? And most importantly, who's gonna pay for it? If someone in the system doesn't have water and the water sergeant comes and says you need to join in, get a warrant. Who will be ordered to be connected to the water infrastructure? Still, who's gonna pay for it? So that's not defined by this law. I have an article 71 that says, "Why a member of the council," or says that a member of the Water Services Council cannot be a member of a political party. Now, why do I have that remark? I agree you shouldn't be a member of the political party, but this is a mockery. He may not be a member of the Water Services Council, but a member of a political party may be the Chief State Inspector. Yes, it's not a problem for the Chief State Inspector to be a member of a party, but a member of the Water Services Council can't be. Furthermore, members of the Constitutional Court directly from politics go to the Constitutional Court. They are party members, and a member of the Water Services Council cannot be a member of the political party. So let's even up the criteria whether politics can go into all that together or not. The area of water services is one of the most important areas of public interest, we all agree. Access to drinking water for all citizens in the country with one of the richest sources should be made possible. Under the availability and wealth of water sources I have already said we are the third or fifth in Europe or 42 in the world. We have 95% coverage of people who are connected to the water supply system. Maybe a couple more, a few less. Unfortunately, we also have only 50% of the citizens available for disposal. If we want to protect the water, that's where we need to step up. But to do all of this, we protect the water and we all have a drain connection we can't do it on our own. We need help from European funds here. Now, here we can talk about how much we really used the European Union funds. Croatia is located at 22 seats with 25% paid fund users. We're in the 6th year of implementation. We've got one more. 7th year plus 3 because of rule 1 + 3 for payments, which means that every year we pay 10%, 40 + 25 we'll be at 65 to 70% maximum. So we're not going to use at least EUR 700 million, 700 million, and we can say that 50% of the people are not connected. We haven't done well enough, we haven't, and I don't know if we're coming. Another worse thing is that we, in public, public draining or water, have 50% losses, you said 50% to ministers, and we did not use EU funds to reconstruct all of our pipelines. That's what we've been warning here for years, and now it's particularly up-to-date, we haven't used the resources of the European drain funds, for water, and, unfortunately, they're getting away and I don't know if we're going to use them. I don't have time anymore, so here's how much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135867	I thank my esteemed colleague, Preleco. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, respected colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135868	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates here on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats a few words about these three laws that are before us in the debate. First of all, I want to say on behalf of the HSS Club that I, and I believe you all believe that water is the right of every man and that this right to water should be constitutional law. If this is built in its constitution by neighbouring Slovenia, I think we should think about it and install in the constitution a right to water, that it should be a constitutional category. Also when it comes to water, it is said that water is a public good, our national wealth and it is really nice to hear and boast that we are one of the richest EU Member States with drinking water reserves. And what I want to point out with this is that if it's public good then there should be a stop or no privatisation of these national resources, not a privatization of water, and we are witnessing that concessions are being transferred these days to springs and also to state agricultural land to new companies from Agrokor in a group of new Fortenovo and so on. without one real analysis being made whether it is the interest of the Croatian people, of the Croatian state, of Croatian farmers, of Croatian inhabitants or of someone's private interest, and from this we see that it is not a public good, but through this it has become someone's private interest, which is certainly not good. When it comes to the Water Act, which should allow better control, monitoring, protection, availability of proper water, then it is certainly to be welcomed that after, I think, there have been 6 amendments to the law, there is finally one clean Water Act going on and thus a message is sent that we really want to have quality control, monitoring and availability of health proper water to all our citizens. But is it true? So the fact that it isn't, here are a few examples where we allow the wider regional waste dumps in Davor, Piškornica near the Koprivnica Wateryard, what about sanitary protection zones, to be properly determined and whether anyone controls them. There were several public advances, including me here from the pay phone, asking for inspections to come out and determine the situation, and unfortunately we didn't get feedback on whether there was anything wrong there, and God forbid there was some sort of elemental disaster earthquake and so on. So that there is pollution in this water supply and that 60,000 people are left without drinking water that is gravitating that water supply. Also, when it comes to accessibility, we are still with, it is nice to hear that somewhere 96% is the availability of drinking water to our fellow citizens, the possibility of a connection. However, we still have a large number of islands where there is no drinking water, we still have a series of small villages especially in rural areas where there is no availability of drinking water and we need to find ways and models to get drinking water too. These are huge investments that public water suppliers themselves will not be able to do, and therefore we need, that the EU money, but also through the part that the public water supplier has to co-finance and the projects will not be able to set up a solidarity fund on their own. There were talks about this especially when it comes to islands, the question is here we at HSS ask what about whether it will be, and we also ask it to be used to build water supplies in rural areas, small settlements where it is not worth it. I have already asked in the reply of the minister why, out of the billion and fifty million euros that has been allocated to these water supply and water supply projects, only 9.6% are realised, and this is not a good result, and it has to be changed and seen where these brakes, who are these brakes, are they themselves water-serving companies, public water suppliers or the public administration has failed. Because Minister Žalac herself said in one statement that she was not satisfied with how projects are being prepared in this ministry and in Croatian waters, and should certainly be changed urgently because we must withdraw these money, build water supply and water management. And here's an example that it's really been going too slow for two and more years is being negotiated for Project Ship 3 on the construction of water treatment and purification. Only today after 2 years is the meeting in the Croatian waters where the final technical solution is defined and only after that is adopted is the follow-up of the project and further preparation of public documentation for the call for tenders and withdrawal of money. And they rightly ask the citizens of the area from Nova Kapela to Vrpolj and Sikirevac when they will get the sewerage, when they will get the possibility of a connection and when they will have a purifier that the water supply is not polluted either in Sikirevci or in Slavonski Brod, or in Davor. I also want to highlight the problem that, here, we mention it in the law, and that is the problem of waste mud, the mud that comes from wastewater purifiers. We do not have it solved, how to take care of it, where to take care of it and on it must be done if we want to preserve the environment for generations to come, and one example of care for the inhabitants of rural areas and the protection of the water supply is the City of Chabar, where for several years they have been writing letters to the Primorje-Gorski County, the Ministry, Croatian waters to solve their problem, but they are still at the beginning, as soon as the heavy rain gets there, mixing drinking water and fecal water, it has not been healthy for months then, and no one has yet made a project, nor has it guaranteed these people when it will be solved, and when they will get drinking water, and when their water treatment or purifier is resolved, which is there, but clearly has not yet been quality built or is not sufficiently technical good enough. When it comes to the Water Service Act, when it comes to defining how much we really need water-sustaining areas, as much as public water-supervisors, I think it is not good, and that it is not enough, that it must be taken into account and that future public water supplier is able to use EU funds, as self-sustainable and what is ultimately the most important price of water is whether it will be accessible to citizens or their income. I'm afraid we haven't worked it out enough, at least we don't have that information, and it's not good for us from HSS that it's only determined by the Government Regulation that it will be 35 or 40, why it's hiding from the public, why not remain a public water supplier and the Vinkovci waterworks, and the Slavonski Brod and the Regional Waterway Davor-Nova Gradiška, and the Djakovo Voda, if they meet these more criteria, not just one criterion. I don't think that's sufficiently elaborated, that it's not publicly available enough, that it's not well or communicated to cities and municipalities, and that the evidence that goes past the public is not put into law or through public debate. And certainly, it should be pointed out that most of them have so far been lost by water suppliers in the network, some thirty, forty, some even 60%, and because we have over 190 suppliers, which have increased their numbers for years, increased their number of employees, increased their losses in business and increased the losses in the water network, and now we of those two or three bad, sick want to create one big patient. Especially in the context that they will now have to pay for the amount of water affected at the water supply site which they have not yet paid, but only for the quantity delivered. As it will then be affordable for citizens, whether the price of water will rise for citizens and the economy, because if gas prices, electricity rise these days, it will be a disaster to increase both water prices, both for citizens and for the economy. They mentioned some here that due to climate change, we are already having a drought problem, especially here in Eastern Slavonia already cannot be maintained, we are doing spring crops due to drought, and I mention that in the context of the fall of groundwater levels. And we need to find models and these laws need to create a tool to preserve the level of groundwater, so here I mention that a series of accumulations of retentions that have started designing, however they do care. They will also serve to protect against the harmful effects of water from streams of wells, but tomorrow they can be a high-quality water tank for raising and levels of groundwater, as well as for irrigation, because without irrigation there is obviously no food production in Croatia, because we certainly need to take care of it. There is also a big problem and a detailed channel network, some of the 24 thousand kilometers in Croatia, in Brod-Posavina it is over three thousand kilometers, Osijek-Baranja more than six, and a large part of that canal network is still uncleaned, unregulated, especially after, in those areas where there have been war activities, and certainly that Countys could not take it, although under the Law they are the owners, but they are never taken over, nor can they be taken over until it is fully in a state that it can be used, and that then they can also introduce compensations for Meliorition discharge, because which the County will introduce compensations for Melioration disposal if a large part of these canals are not arranged, cleaned and practically there are now shrubs and space to settle the bricks, wild pigs, instead of the production and production of food, and certainly that must remain in the production of Croatia's water and agriculture. And it should also be said that we haven't used enough of our rivers, especially when it comes to waterways, we still haven't solved the waterway on the Sava River to Slavonski Brod, still that sedated barrier which has long been promised that for about a million and a half, two million kunas will be solved, and not solved, so I ask you when it will be, I think that the City of Slavonski Brod and, then maybe even to Sisak if it is allowed, come and which cruisers and which tourists also to Slavonski Brod, and to Sisak. I think it must be solved, and I also find it strange why it is from some important projects for Croatia, I think it is important for Croatia, and for Slavonia the Danube-Sava channel. There was a lot of talk, we put it in some of our development papers, most of the county was Z, and now it's quiet. I think that we should put it back into important development projects, surely in this way preserve agricultural production, and forests in Slavonia, but also ensure cheap waterway and economic growth in Slavonia and Baranja, I hope that this is a common interest for all of us. And here, in the end, we should say that we are all interested in these laws really being a tool, that every citizen has available medically correct drinking water, that there is the possibility of a draining connection, to protect the environment and to prevent abuses and private interests if the water is public good, and that there must be public good and no water building can happen, river pollution or private interests in the use of water supply sites, but also water springs, we must take care to preserve these waters for generations to come but that it is economically and socially affordable to our citizens and certainly accessible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135869	I thank my colleague Vlaović. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague, Drazen Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135870	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs, ministers, assistant ministers, I welcome you all, I am pleased that this debate is united precisely because it is visible that from these two laws, means the Water Act as well as the Water Economy Financing Act has actually formed a framework of a quality law on water services. The proposal of the Water Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the House of Commons is conceptually identical and, to the greatest extent, equivalent to the applicable Water Act, in such cases, to amend and supplement this size would be sufficient to pass the law on amendments and additions to the applicable law, but this would be the sixth amendment and addition of the Water Act so that we now have a new old Water Act in front of us. The fundamental amendments concern the exclusion of provisions on public water supply and disposal from this bill and their full regulation in the text of the Water Services Act proposal in order to implement the reform in the activities of water services. Other and most important changes to the applicable Water Act have been made to compliance with the Croatian legislation with the legal acquis of the EU in the area of water, corita, natural water surfaces there is a public water good owned by the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government have been authorised to transfer the tasks of issuing specific conditions of accession to the construction of the coastal drain on the public water service supplier in the service area if they have transferred to it the authority of the construction, construction, urban coastal draining projects. The proposal for a law no longer provides legal possibility for the provision of waste water treatment activities to concessions, this was the only remaining provision that could privatise the management function of a part of the water-communal system arranged for the treatment of waste water. Today we have cohesion funds and we have agglomerations, and from these projects we can build complete funding for Europe's disposal systems. The water law inspection remains primarily a competent inspection for the application of this law but is no longer institutionally established in the Ministry of Water Economy, but in the State Inspectorate. In this respect, the water economy financing law applies to the power to make a decision on development compensation as well as the purpose of using the funds achieved from the basis of the law. Development fee is the only local source of funding for the development of water-communal infrastructure, the only local component within the national component under the national component of EU co-financing projects. The development fee decision so far has been made by local self-government units and has been the remaining income of a public water service supplier. According to the report on the work of the Water Services Council for 2017, the development fee of 555 units of local self-government introduced 319 units of local self-government and did not introduce 236 of them today when we are in the midst of the implementation of EU development projects more than ever need to have a simpler mechanism for introducing this fee and that is where the drafter of this law came up with the right solution. This law proposes that a decision on development compensation be taken by a public water service provider whose passing is also the case, the Water Services Act proposes that the decision be taken by the Assembly of a public supplier to whom all units of local self-government, members of a society, and the decision is proposed by a double majority model according to the basic capital plus the constituencies of local self-government units are represented. This Regulation also connects the planning and financing cycle, as according to the Water Services Act, it proposes that the business plan of the public water service provider be made for a period of 4 years, the decision on the price of water services from which operational costs are paid shall be made for the period of validity of the business plan and, under this proposal, the law and development compensation decisions from which the capital expenditure is paid shall also be made for the period of validity of the business plan. These are the most significant arrangements of this law, so more detailed arrangements are being made for the additional purpose of spending the water treatment fee, this fee that many still today call the spillwater, the water charge is being collected by local self-government units and the income is Croatian Waters. At the same time, these units of local self-government can retain 10% of the fees collected for construction, maintenance of the coastal drain building. This bill allows units of local self-government to make use of all the resources contained and their part and to settle the charges and charges. More detailed arrangements are being made to finance and maintain agglomeration structures for disposal according to the water law, water buildings for agglomeration are owned by units of regional self-government. The water inspection also here, according to the provisions of the bill, remains in charge of monitoring its application but respects the legal circumstance that this inspection is now special law in the State Inspectorate system. From these two, by quality design and by agreeing with long-term work, this Water Services Act is complex. Special attention has been paid to the provisions of the Water Services Act proposal as a central reform law on this water law package. The fundamental objective of this law is to ensure future water price affordability so that after the implementation of the EU dictated investment does not exceed 3% of the net available household income per year. The additional objectives are to ensure the financial and institutional self-sustainability of public water suppliers, thus ensuring their ability to conduct EU-declarated water investments and to ensure... the principles of the EU Framework Directive on the return of water costs to water services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The availability of a quality water service will be ensured for all citizens and business users of the Republic of Croatia under uniform conditions and three activities of water services will be maintained in the public sector. The strongest instrument in the reconciliation of the interests of large, medium and small units of local self-government in the future single public supplier is the determination by the dual majority model. Double size means the decision of members of a company by underlying capital and by the number of members of a unit of local self-government society. The decision was taken by a double majority, when voted for it, a dependent majority of votes relative to business shares, i.e. shares in underlying capital, on the day of the assembly and the ordinary majority, i.e. the second half of the units of local self-government given to the assembly. The main issue is the institutional issue of the water services sector, assumptions for the establishment of a service area, with a minimum delivery of 2 million cubic metres a year, with the possibility of a derogation of minus 10%, i.e. 35 and more service areas in Croatia. Rule of one supplier in the service area, unique public... water services, the only... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] public... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Water services is a company of capital to which local self-government units are established in the service area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obligations to integrate existing public suppliers from a single public supplier in the service area, by joining the largest public supplier in the service area, assumptions, for equating the price of water in the service area, from the establishment of a single price of water in the service area, revenue spent according to the principles of solidarity and championships in the needs and obligations of public service providers for implementation, and units of local self-government, to ensure the implementation of a multi-annual construction programme, a communal water building which ensures investment of investments, contracts and accession. As a basic question, the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the water services sector is regulated, which reflects the regulation of the specific rules on the obligation of a single public water service provider to enter into a temporary, i.e. a permanent solution to meet the specific conditions for carrying out military service activities, licensing obligations and the establishment and operation of an independent economic water service regulator at central state level, in order to ensure the system and uniform economic analysis and control of the costs of a unique... Water services and ensuring the social affordability of water prices, development fees in the environment of natural monopoly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a basic question, a provision expressing the anti-privatisation nature of this law, the water service provider, can only be a public water service provider. Exceptions are only concessionaries or the provision of public service for the provision and disposal of waste water from the individual disposal system, water services are provided directly by the basis of this law, rather than by the basis of an individual act of entrustment of the municipal water structure as the property of public water service suppliers, thus ensuring the protection of the impact provided by the provision of the Article. 365 EU funding contracts, which determine contracts, do not question in any way, the rules governing the ownership system in the Member States. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: As basic issues, a provision on consumer protection is regulated, which achieves consumer protection objectives under consumer protection rules. Obligatory public consultation on the decision in the price of water services, the social price of water services, applies universally and to public water supply, public disposal, including... waste water has been applied only to public water supply so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The social price of water services, applied universally to fixed and variable parts of the price of water services, has so far been applied only to variable prices of water services. The consequences that law-making will result, i.e. the adoption of this law, will strengthen the implementation of capacity, investment capacity of water service suppliers, in order to meet the requirements laid down in the Treaty on the Accession of EU Investments and to carry out national investments in the water services sector. Financial stability will be strengthened, as well as the financial technical self-sustainability of water service providers, without further financial assistance from the local self-government unit for regular business. The implementation of the principle of recovery costs will be ensured, water wages will be paid for, in a way that the management and maintenance of plants, municipal water buildings, financing exclusively from the price of water, and investments in the municipal water infrastructure, from different available choices of EU funds, state-accounting, the budget of the unit of local self-government, international financial innunciation and other financial markets, will ensure that the water price is also available after the implementation of the investment of the dictated accession contracts to consumers and that, within the limits of the economic efficiency of the supplier and in general, up to 3% of the net income of the household annually, will allow access to the grey unit of local self-government, in the capital of the single public water supplier in the service area, including 73 which, up to the present time, are the founders of any existing water service provider and will ensure integration of over 200 small, unregulated water supply, with no water quality, the public water supply system. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support these three laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135871	I thank my colleague Milinkovic. On behalf of the HDS Club. HSLS and HDSSB, dear colleague Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected ministers with assistant, the HDS Club, the HSLS and the HDSSB will support these proposals of the law in the first reading, but also give some suggestions that should be incorporated into the law between the two readings and then we can, of course, support it without any problems. So, as the minister said 94% of the moment in Croatia there is a possibility of connections, somewhere around 84% are really connected. I have to say, there are areas in the Republic of Croatia where these percentages are completely different and different and where the possibility of a connection to a water supply network is significantly smaller. So, I'm talking specifically about the area of the town of Križevci and the surrounding municipalities where we still have the municipalities of St. Ivan Žabno, which has no possibility of joining another 70% of the population, just as one large part of the village that belongs in the area of the town of Križevci in that distribution system also has no built water network yet and no people have the possibility of a drain connection that we don't even talk about, there is a situation much worse and for a long time and it won't be possible to solve it very easily. What we were all interested in most was Article 7. The Water Services Act, of course, determines who can be a distributor. They're different thoughts. It is not some paper regarding the law because the existing law also plans to reduce the number of distributors, that they will be rounded up and that there will be an attempt to level the prices of services, the price of water supply services where in principle Croatian citizens would pay roughly or equally the same water supply service, water use as in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Now this situation is different and we really have areas that can't be compared at all. Of course, there are always those who are for rounding, and there are those who are not for roundings who believe that even with smaller distribution systems, they can function well and the system can be kept sustainable. This is also the case with the area of the town of Križevci and the 4 surrounding municipalities. That's why one particular proposal I've talked about here and a lot of colleagues, and I know he's still going to be mentioned here today. Therefore, it is a proposal to take Article 7. The Water Services Act is slightly modified and completed and incorporated into another provision, which is to allow the distributor to be the one who has below 2 million cc's of delivery. There are some bills that could be no less than 800 grand. It should be borne in mind that there are therefore areas that are currently unable to deliver these 800 thousand or million because they do not have a developed distribution network. The moment this network is developed, then the cubicity will of course be increased. Thus, there is a specific example in the area of the distribution area of the Križevci. Now that delivery is about 700 or something. When the system was built to the end, it would have reached 900, over 900 thousand. And my proposal is that, when respecting such a change and supplementing the law, it is respected and that part is therefore foreseen in the area of distribution served by estimates of the total amount of water when a complete distribution network is built. In order for both the minutes and the proposals to make it easier for the ministry to see and accept, I will read the proposal to enter the minutes. Therefore, Article 7(2) should be amended in a way to add: ‘exceptionally from Article 7(2) of this Act, the service area may be established in the current area of providing a service to an existing public water service provider other than the company of the acquirer and which delivers more than 800 thousand cubic metres and less than a million per year, or has the possibility to deliver those quantities by calculating the complete construction of the distribution system, assuming that it meets the conditions laid down in Article 5 of this Act’. In this way, they would define some other things that are not yet clearly prescribed and practically passed a law that would be acceptable. Of course that doesn't mean that some distributor won't connect with another distributor, it will, of course, calculate as much as it costs. But I think it's good to allow this possibility to distributors in such areas that were therefore not allowed to come at all to deliver larger quantities of water. I will mention here that in this area I am talking about, the distribution area of Križevci was disabled by the use of the Croatian Waters for the development of the network because in the division of the municipal company to water services and the municipal enterprise, the head of a municipality has now filed a lawsuit against the municipal and stopped the division of the municipal company for 4 years. Croatian waters, on the other hand, stopped any funding and the utility could not develop the network at all and could not come into a situation that today means more than 800,000 cubic cc's of delivered water. And that's why I suggest this is the way to predict it. Furthermore, Article 7 of the Act on the financing of the water economy states that the development compensation will be made for the whole distribution area. Perhaps we should think about it a little bit, though, because there might be a lot of problems in decision-making in this way, given how the decision-making law is planned and what is already being said today in the debate on how everyone will have the right to vote with any share that is to say so co-owner of this company, because it will be possible for some to want to develop networks, and others will not want to accept and there will be problems. Perhaps at least branch offices should see that making a decision for development is possible because this will certainly be a problem. It's just one thought for and a suggestion, but in any case it would be good to consider it, it could be a problem in the field. Here is the request that this part I read in the Water Services Act be incorporated into the law we first support this bill, in the second reading this support will be conditioned by this very proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135873	Thanks to my colleague Hrg, we're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives Club, dear colleague Emil Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135874	Dear Vice-President, ministers with assistants, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs arrived from Istria during the e-consultation, many well-intentioned suggestions, suggestions and advice on how to make this law better, more practical, more efficient. What's most important of all came from the field of the profession itself, from people who deal with water services daily, water supply and disposal in both the steering and the technical part. So it was common sense to try to help make the system better and more efficient together. Unfortunately, a good part of these quality proposals has not been adopted, I wonder why, I only hope it is not because such proposals are proposed by those who do not represent the ruling majority or because they do not come from areas where political options are not in power as well as at the state level. Because that would mean we've completely collapsed as a society. Especially with regard to the topic of municipal infrastructure and governance, and not to any political beliefs, the world's horizons. I repeat, quality proposals, changes, additions, additions have been proposed by the field profession, people who live on this topic and this issue every day. It was not done by some who had never seen a water or collector’s pipe, let alone how complex it is and how the entire water system works and draining. Because this is about a law that should make the entire system of water services more practical and efficient, and not taking into account some of the things it's trying to point out is actually being blind to healthy eyes. You know, in Istria, we have one saying that cargo and manivik are smarter than man himself, and a mani and a mani and a mani sea are only better at it. Why not use it, this will show in practice possible chaos in the processes that will follow, both in the operational procedures themselves and in the short deadlines set. I especially note this in larger and more complex systems. Not to mention the constitutionality of this bill itself, some of the lawyers warned, we know that water supply and disposal are no longer municipal but water activities, but at the time of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia were communal activities. How the provisions of the Constitution should be interpreted in the context of the time in which the Constitution was adopted, and not in the context of today's categorisation of certain activities, the question is whether the legal definition and imposition of a public water supply and disposal organisation is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or the constitutional rights of the units of local self-government. But even if it were all right on that side, do you not feel that proposing such laws would require more attention to professions and terrain than it did and respect their opinions. If there were a little more wisdom and respect for another and a different result, it would be much better for all citizens of Croatia, for our society as a whole. This partial constipation force at the speed of the process, not its systematicity and efficiency, makes us all suspicious. Suspicion is the good intentions of the promoter on the one hand and suspicion of incompetence and ignorance on the other hand, and that is not good. You don't really know what's worse, but I'll come back to that later. Now I just want to point out one thing, but one important thing that we think at the club would be a good idea to reconsider and try to correct the second reading. And that, in our opinion, is the inadequacy and ineffectiveness of the deadlines of law enforcement. The proposal for a law provides for a 90-day transitional and final implementation period for the implementation of the accession of Article 88. The accession process involves the preparation of the attachment contract, the revenue of which is from the framework negotiations of the management of the company, the accession of the two association assemblies and between the same and the implementation of the audits of the accession of all the companies involved, should also be added to the holding of meetings of municipal and city councils. Afterwards, the entry into the register is considered to have been made. The usual technical deadlines for simple attachments are 6 months, but then they are simple attachments involving two societies with a few members. However, in the main case of a bar with us, the merger will be conducted by a number of existing suppliers of which there are few of the same members. This should also be added to indirect preparatory actions, such as the coordination of the integration of accounting services and programmes, supervisory management systems, the definition of obligations and powers sees projects in preparation and progress, etc. The above is more than obvious that the implementation deadline is unreal and will result in the whole system of public suppliers entering the area of criminal liability, which will result again in the inability to apply the penalties provided for. Furthermore, although there is an informal proposal from the CARD service areas, this is not yet officially confirmed and can only be referred to hypothetically, however, some existing distribution areas of existing public suppliers will be shown to be vacated from the current map of service areas. In this case, these public suppliers must also carry out a status change in the division of society before accession; it is very demanding procedures that are technically impossible to implement within the specified deadlines. Because, you know, not all the waterworks are tiny, today we've been listening to other stories than we have in Istria, not all of us are poorly capacitated and unable to manage our resources in quality. We are proposing that ministers amend the proposed deadlines, since the following will require a significantly higher implementation period because, contrary to suspicion of good intentions, the applicant is justified. Somehow again important topics are not approached systematically enough, short implementation deadlines are given, the law is even mixed somewhere in the internal structure of companies, and not all parts of the Republic of Croatia are the same to apply the same rule for all, for purely technical reasons we have already had the opportunity to hear this today. You know, we come from the area where the system is arranged, where the highest percentage of water supply coverage with water quality control is delivered, and where the smallest losses are on the other side. Also, if there were no Istrian solidarity, rural Istria would never have such coverage as today, I can say it from personal experience as the head of a small mountain-mountan municipality. If it hadn't been for the solidarity of towns and municipalities on the Istrian coast that are much richer than that interior, we would never have come to a percentage, and the percentage is now over 95%, and the whole of Istria is 99.8. And all under the laws so far since 1993, since this territorial reconstruction, until today. So if it had been desired so far, but obviously not everyone was responsible enough and solid in all of Croatia. You see, water services were first removed from municipal activities, so now, within a short period of time, the water supply and disposal companies want to unite in a wider area than they have been before, so the whole chaos on the ground will also arise as a result of such a short period of time. It will potentiate violations and confusion. So the law defines that some important things will be defined by sublegal acts, and the law prescribes certain things that should be the subject of the congregation of societies. Faring important decisions from local to national level, centralisation of the system to manage them from one point further raises suspicion that this could be even the first step towards privatising water services, regardless of what is pointed out, is the fact that these proposals are anti-privatisation laws. But is that the goal of this government? The proposals may be good and correct, but you must understand suspiciousness because in these slightly less than 30 years in this country, almost everything has been sold in our country, of which a good part is invaluable. So I'm asking if the government is slowly planning to sell one of the few things we have left as natural water resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135875	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135876	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers and assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The Water Service Act is the main theme, meaning the Water Law, which defines water supply and disposal, and I'm going to brief on the Water Economy Financing Act. I see this law as one technical, first technical and then formal law which wishes to respect the Council's directive on the treatment of municipal wastewater and scope. So, basic objectives have been defined as regards water service suppliers, primarily economics, efficiency, and this is all the consequences of the existing situation that I honestly expected more in the opening part of exactly what might be far more useful for us to understand certain proposed solutions, and also for certain conclusions. I will quote so, the water supply system is a relatively high covered area of the Republic of Croatia and there is still a potential of about 10%. However, the purification system is absolutely not at a satisfactory level that we are all aware of. This way that through the pooling of distributors that these outlined objectives will be achieved, I will honestly say if it were to say within what time period it is expected to be achieved, the more the law says that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding here I am quite skeptical ministers. Practically from the budget, or from the finances currently available by public water service suppliers and after the merger, I do not expect it to increase. You believe that this directive will be respected with certain criteria, which is 3% in the price of water, affordability compared to net income per household at the annual level. I want to believe that's how it's gonna end up. The fact is 190 suppliers that among them there are those who are neither effective nor have the essential basis for sustainability that they can function on their own. The fact is that the differences that are that should in some way be integrated, but whether 2 million cc's plus a minus 10% I don't think should and should not be the only condition and should not be enslaved to it. And according to the momentum that is below that it can practically not function on its own, and now there are systems below that amount that are completely normal, implemented by European projects whose municipalities and cities owned by these systems have, in previous years, been financed by the water infrastructure of the taxpayers' money and by their citizens beyond what could possibly have been obtained from Croatian waters or possibly by a state that was extremely small. Implementation, Article 7 of the service area is being established more and more clear. But I'm asking a question, it's mathematically obtained because it's kind of a size somewhere, so if you have 2 million cubes, you're going to be financially sustainable, economically, professionally capacitated, you have all the conditions that you can satisfy and function according to the water principle. By predicting once again that local self-government is one of those that will finance water buildings. Is this the principle on which the European Union works? I'm not so sure. We have different principles in neighbouring countries, whether one directive is applicable to the Republic of Croatia, and for the other EU member states, some other specificities are or are respected in certain areas and geographical and cultural, not to say sociological moments. Similarly, existing water suppliers, they are companies operating under the Commercial Society Act, they have their statutes and the application of this law, the way of those who need to attach or take over other companies, will become a nightmare. You will cause great dissatisfaction through the assembly and on municipal and migration councils because the fact is, you are saying that this law is a lex specialis, but you derrogate the Law on Commercial Society, the will of the representative body is derivated, thus the will of the citizens. I would recommend that if a happier solution is possible, if a happier solution is possible because in this transitional period until those goals you want to respect are reached, I fully understand them and can agree with a lot of what is written here. However, in this Implementing Part, there will be major problems in the field if the companies of the Assembly are guided by their Statutes and the Law on Commercial Companies. Here you have in this, the technical solution is fine, however, formally I'm afraid we'll have on the ground a great dilemma, an inconceivable way of doing it in nature. The found state is different at the level of the Republic of Croatia, we are aware of that. Also, you are aware of the fact that you also have these large companies that are over 2 million cubics that will attach smaller ones, question their positive financial result. Now they're good, when attached, it's a question of success and further functioning. Likewise, there are now smaller companies that are below 700, 800, a million cc's that function perfectly in order in the way they are now functioning, and they will have to be attached. So I would suggest that you also consider what my colleague Hrg said, I will repeat, so that the possibility is considered that it is not the only criterion for us at the HNS cannot be that criterion because it is contrary to the Company Act to limit the quantity of goods delivered or I don't know what else. Maybe you don't remember, I remember the same thing in 2008 or 2009 when you wanted to round up the gas distributors, it was also such an initiative, we don't need small ones, they're not efficient, they're not sustainable, however, they gave up on it. I wish your search services that were the reasons for it were the same principle, the same model, and nothing Europe has responded to, nor has it said. I'm going to briefly do something about the development fee, which is now the same as the existing one, and hypothetically unite, I don't know, 28 local self-government, and none of those 28 have an absolute majority, or 50 + 1 vote, of course, will have to be given both the majority and the double right to vote. So, the double right of vote works in cooperatives, one cooperative, one vote, I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, I'd like to be wrong, deny me, but I haven't been able to find it in the Law of Trade Society of such a guy that is currently in practice. Furthermore, funding for development benefits will be spent on the basis of solidarity, I understand solidarity, however, as citizens who will pay through the price of water and part of the development fee that will not go to that area to build them. Solidarity okay, perhaps to consider that one part of these funds is based on solidarity, but should not be more than 25, maximum 30%, and the rest should be used for development in the area in which it is collected. This is contrary to autonomy, the independence of local self-government, can be prescribed by law, however, I would like you to try to see the consequences in the long run. You're predicting penalization, so we're all looking at this law in good faith, in good faith, and we want our suggestions, our thinking to fix it, improve it. So, there will be short-term unless certain decisions of this law are implemented, there will be short-term co-financing from EU funds, aid from the state, from Croatian waters and so on, so who are we punishing? We punish our citizens. And I'm going to ask you a hypothetical question, and I'd like you to answer me. The Society's congregations are the mayors, the mayors of that company, and they simply do not want to make this decision, before the term of office of their city council or municipal council which does not give them the mandate to join a larger society, what then? Who are we going to penalize? Citizens? It's a little complicated, it looks very simple, but I'm not sure how positive it can work. And what I was saying, you've predicted here for the realisation of the law you don't need financial resources, there I can't agree on at all. So by this law you plan unification, a 190 circle I don't know 30, 40, 50 that will end up under the Regulation and don't need the law to be implemented, so we didn't do anything, sorry doesn't need any extra resources. Well, they just need extra funding if you want those areas, those municipalities, those communities, you put them on the line and you deprive the existing utility companies that are working on water supply and disposal, you're reducing their fiscal capacity, so of course they need financial resources, you can tell 'it's from the EU funds, it's going to be from Croatian Waters. By law on funding we have a basic price, price of water, structure, means compensation for the development, use of water and water protection. The basic price goes to the utility company, it's somewhere, depending on where, 30% to 40% in price structure. Development fee around 15% to 20%, so it remains communal, in fact public water supply and disposal companies to express myself correctly, but the use of water and water protection falls somewhere from 40% to 50%, depending on, and... about 47%, it goes to the state or Croatian waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Have you thought if you want this Law to be implemented, and everyone wants to be implemented with certain adjustments, that most of these funds be left to the public suppliers that they can from these funds in their service area so that they can implement this Act in action. As far as I'm concerned, in a short time, the Finance Act, I would like to propose, so compensation, development funds based on solidarity. I said no, in my view it is not the happiest solution, but you have to understand the history of certain areas that people with self-deliveries, additional separation built water supply systems, built sewers, and make it possible for JLS to have one part on its own or that the development funds remain in the area where they are collected, and that it can be added to the agreement of the city council or the citizens themselves in a particular area of compensation to add precisely to the investment. Ministers believe that you will appreciate our thoughts, we will support the Law in the first reading, it is too short a time, but I believe there will be opportunities in the individual debate, I hope it won't take long, and I will add some details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135877	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS representative club, respected counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135878	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In the introduction, the minister pointed out that it was a reform law, this law is certainly a large bite that has many consequences with it, and we here in the first reading must detect those consequences that are bad so that they can influence their comments and suggestions on the legal text in order to make it as good as possible in the second reading. So I can agree with that finding by the Minister, especially if the lightmotive of the adoption of the Law on the resolution of the fragmentation of public water service suppliers, which today has 190 to a much smaller number, I think we all agree, because generally watching statistics is bad for us, the numerous water pipelines are poor, some water supply has enormous water losses, numerous water lines are not included in the public system, the water supply to the carcisters is not sufficient, nor is it prescribed, nor is the minimum water required by the household. Water is thus still not equally available, especially for all inhabitants in rural areas who are underpopulated, who are poor and in islands where there are actually no nets, and setting up a water supply network is not actually economically justified. The problem is in practice and at the level of the price of the connection that part of the population cannot join, and unfortunately part of the population is left without water because it cannot simply pay the bills. Yes, unfortunately, it also happens that we have a halt in the supply of water due to non-payments. If they added any other comments, they could also say that the monitoring of water for human consumption is not, it is not implemented in a way that is uniform because it depends on the financial opportunities of each County. Although this, therefore, does not say in the Constitution, I think that we all think that who we are discussing here today is this draft of the Law that the availability of drinking water is actually a human right and that we have to invest in those areas that I mentioned now are rural, that poor, poorly developed, poorly populated, because if we don't invest in those areas who will live in these areas, who will return to those areas from those areas, and who will move into those areas, who will invest economically in those areas if there is no water, so we can't just have an economic calculation, but we need to think about it as a demographic measure. In particular, the draft law regulates assumptions, so to establish service areas according to the proposal of two million cubic cc's of water delivery annually, to establish a rule of one service, one, one supplier for one service area, so logic is, one service area and... one supplier, and the law then prescribes the obligation to attach smaller ones, i.e. to the largest public supplier, these smaller ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This would also make assumptions that in one service area there is one uniform water price. I believe that this could establish the declared objectives of this law, which is to strengthen the implementation, implementation of investment capacity of public water service suppliers and strengthen their financial stability. That should certainly be supported, but I would then have a few specific things here to suggest and ask the Proposer to consider them. I agree with the assessment that so far, as organised water companies are really questionable their and business only sustainability and financial stability and no one smart should have against rounding up, but we need to be smart about how we're going to do it in a good way to actually benefit these companies, but that the benefits are also end-users, and these are our citizens. So I ask the promoter to first consider this criteria of cubicity, so that the rounding criteria should support this, but to consider that criterion of 2 million kunas should be somewhere closer to a million kunas a year. I believe that the aim of the law and the objective of the reform will be achieved and that, with regard to the reduction of this criterion, much will not be lost. As we have said, therefore, the logic of the law is one service area, one supplier, but attention should be paid to those areas that would be far from the new administration so that these remote areas have quality communication with the central authority, so as not to be cut off in terms of investment and not all fall back to centralised decision-making. Because in all major systems, we have such a situation that rural extreme areas are lost, that they are not heard enough, and then those end-users, where there are no real investments, do not even get the right interventions, and we have situations that do not even get the timely removal of faults. I am commending the mechanism here on these problems that I have been talking about, I am commending the decision-making mechanism, I think that it is good and that the double majority measure to the greatest extent protects the weaker and is actually forcing the strongest one, who is dominant to agree with the weaker one, but regardless of the good intentions of the promoter and at the wish of all of us, it will be that some areas will be bypassed by investments, in fact, some areas will be 13 pigs, and for this reason I ask the Proposer to consider perhaps some additional protection mechanisms of such areas when it is obvious that some areas have been bypassed both in terms of investment and in terms of interventions and repairs of the water network. With regard to the price that will be unique for one service area, it is very likely that there will be an increase in prices for some areas that today have a lower price, which will certainly affect those poorer areas, those poorer end consumers will be affected. I believe that the price of water must be such that it is really available and that it must be as it says in the law and it must be socially affordable to consumers. With regard to some more concrete proposals, please consider the provision of paragraph 4 of Article 7 where the scope of the service area is spoken of that it cannot be cut off by agglomeration except when agglomeration is cut by a state border. I think it's to consider erasing this restrictive criterion, that the service area can't be cut by agglomerated, I think it might be too restrictive, maybe I'm wrong, but I'm asking you to consider it, I think the goal that wants to achieve by law can be achieved even without that criterion. As regards the provisions governing the branch under Article 29, it is said that the public water service provider is obliged to set up branches at the headquarters of existing water service suppliers supplying at least 500,000 m3 of water annually for human consumption, I think this provision which says that it should be deleted for at least 2 years, or even if it should be extended to a minimum. I don't think it's realistic to expect that it will be fulfilled within 2 years or that it can happen that the new public supplier says he won't even invest enough in that branch, because he will consider it pre-written and that actually that branch will be already lost battles. As regards Article 88, which speaks of the dates of accession, means when a company acquirer takes over existing public water service suppliers, it is said of a 90-day period, I think it is a very short time for that deadline to be longer, more lively. Experience teaches us that all legal deadlines that were at least optimistic, too ambitious to break through, and that wouldn't be good if we drove public suppliers into breaking the law, a colleague before me was talking about it. I know from experience that certain units of local self-government when they had an obligation to set up utility companies or companies that were to deal with the supply of water, separate from other municipal activities that essentially broke those deadlines that they were late. In particular, given the need to decide on this, when a representative body, municipal or city council should decide on it. So, I ask that the deadline be considered and that we do not force public suppliers to break the law or race with time. I have some other minor remarks to make to the ministry in writing as a representative of the motion, so I'd like to ask them to consider. And in the end I would just appeal to the promoter, I think it's really important to pay water bills, but I also think that maybe in law you should prescribe a minimum amount of water that no one should be denied, here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135879	I thank my esteemed colleague Milosevic. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Ante Prenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135880	Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, and in their individual presentation, as well as on the replica, I will commend this bill that brings salvation to the rural space of the Republic of Croatia, especially if we look at one fact that is clear, and it says that over 65,000 people are moving out of the Republic of Croatia annually, and it is mostly from rural areas and when we speak of 65 000 people, it means that it is also less water that public suppliers are coming in, or income that public suppliers are coming in by delivering water in the rural area. All this brings actually public suppliers to the limits of rentability, and above all those located in the mountainous mountainous region of the Republic of Croatia. According to the last Law on mountainous mountainous areas, 85 cities and municipalities have acquired the status of mountainous mountainous areas. I'm just going to tell you on the example of our communal man dealing with the supply of water, so at 320 km2, 250 km network, that's about 13.7 connections per km, and the limit of rentability would be 25 connections. Not to say on the invoiced water that 5.00 per m3 of invoiced water we pay the price of electricity. So, all of this is due to 19 pumping stations and pumping 38 m above sea level where there are springs at 652 m and it is simply brought to the limit of rentability, not just an example of Vrgorac, but an example of Imotski, Gorski Kotar, part of Like, part of Hrvatski Zagorje, we all struggle, the last purchases of electricity that took place in 9 months through public procurement, the price of electricity jumped over 32% for all public suppliers. It led literally to the limit of rentability and when you sum up unit prices as many citizens pay, we realize that the most expensive water in the Republic of Croatia is located in the mountainous mountainous region of the Republic of Croatia and these citizens cannot in any way be equal to the citizens of the rest of the Republic without talking about the owners. Therefore, this rounding means to us, particularly for the town of Vrgorac and the area of Imotski, most likely the accession of the territory of Makarska, one literally rescue because we have an example that Vrgorac and Imotski are struggling with rentability, and the Makarska Communal is building a new building of the highest standard. The only thing that bothers me is that we don't already have service areas prepared as proposals because so far we have passed laws, so a series of acts that are later made by the Government, we don't actually know the actual actual state of service we have. As far as I'm concerned, the less service areas, the better. I will also look at a few articles, first of all, when we talk about the part relating to the administration where you have defined that the public delivery administration has one member, the director, that the director is appointed to the 4th year, that he is appointed by a public tender, where luck is not defined by one framework of competence that this director should satisfy because there really are communals that are literally with medium professional training, I have nothing against medium professional preparation, but it is time to introduce competence frameworks to be either economically or legally or technically with certain years of working experience, to stop the policy of staffing in the field of directorial functions, to introduce competence and knowledge. I'll look back on the article. In 60. one article that we are all struggling with, public suppliers, directors who, I don't think, have a director who didn't deserve to report and communals, refer to the installation and maintenance of individual waterbenders, in section 3. says the water service user is obliged to enable the maintenance of individual waterbender through a public water service provider in a manner determined by the General conditions of water service delivery. The maintenance cost shall be charged to the user for the price of water services. Look, I wish you'd changed the Law of Measurement because certain water measure has a guarantee of 10, 15, 20 years, and now you're literally pushing or I see that it was also a feature of past laws, that they change every 5 years. The problem arises when you go to the Employment Service and look at how many plumbers there are at the Ministry of Employment of the Republic of Croatia. They are not there, simply large water suppliers such as Split, such as larger areas, can't be delivered in 5 years. It also wants to change these waterbenders and therefore I think that a certain correction should be made regarding that part. It is also an Article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 62. If I am well, yes, it writes, says the article that the item, public suppliers will charge an unlawful advantageous fee for illegal accession, but not beyond the deadline of 10.g. Backwards. I think it's a violation of the laws because it can be charged on a mandatory relationship law related to retroactive 3rd-years. As far as art is concerned. In 96. I would just like that if you can show in your review whether Article 96 shuts down eco agencies in Split because the article provides that since the adoption of the law itself, we have to shut down, shut down, just for a second, shut down or attach legal persons to the implementation of watercommunication projects. Since it was, as such, founded for water-communal projects, does that mean it's being shut down? Finally, and finally, this law will bring about a reduction in prices for the rural part of Croatia, a rural part of Croatia that is not equal to the urban territory of Croatia, and I am glad to be brought as such. I would also like to reduce the VAT price on the supply of water. I personally believe that 13% is high, if we could reduce to waste disposal, I think the VAT should also be reduced to the price of water delivery. And as for the compensation of the water compensation for, the water treatment fee when we are already in contact with the laws concerning the water economy, let's finally clarify the water treatment dilemma paid by the citizen in that village of the most perplexed part of Vrgorska krajina as well as in the centre of Zagreb. So at the level of Croatia it is equal and there should be introduced certain different items, different calculations according to the development indices that simply citizens per m2 in that account, and cities must conduct a parallel with a municipal compensation solution as a unit of local self-government to finally introduce this one difference in accordance with the development index. I will also say about the water contribution that is equal to in phase B, at a stage in many parts of Croatia means out of this part of the coast, all those commitments that could be arranged by this development index would mean one additional stimulating measure for people to stay in the rural part of Croatia, to come to the economy, because when you sum up now I think the unit prices lead to the largest in the rural part, and mainly in the mountain-mounted area because of the influence of electricity. That is why I really support this law and how fortunate it is to have a second reading and to be adopted and attached, because literally many communals are at the edge of the rentability of business in the rural part of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135881	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. Next debate, dear colleague Marko Vesligaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135882	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, here I will also refer to the Water Services Act in my debate on these two other laws and I have no major objections. But I don't exactly share the enthusiasm that there exists here on both sides of the assembly today in this law. What is my biggest regret is that we should have taken more into account these differences that we are talking about today through this whole debate, in the county, in the municipalities, in the cities, in view of one state as well as in the projects that the EU is, some of them are already in the process of negotiations, some of them are waiting for competitions, etc. The first point is of course around service areas, therefore through the law it is said that the service area is established in existing water supply areas in which water is supplied for human consumption of at least 2 million m3 per year. My point is why this financial sustainability is based solely on this criterion of 2 million m3 per year and why is it defined as the only relevant? There's been a lot of talk today, but I haven't heard any concrete argument. So, by law, we predict territorial accession, we don't look at one quality of service, we don't look at the economics of business, we don't see the ultimate price that will turn out to be for the users. Therefore, while adhering to that, there will be a reduction in prices for some, for some of these areas there will also be an increase in prices because the company that is the acquirer will actually have a significantly higher price for water services than the existing company that delivers water in the area of a local unit or more. I will specifically cite the example of companies dealing with water supply and draining in my town of Pregrad, it is VIOP d.o.o., located in 100% of the property of the town of Pregrada, it covers 95% of the area, so the population is covered with drinking water, it has a separate water supply system with 2 springs, at one source there is even built-in disinfection technology at the source itself, so with ecologically certified disinfectants, the only one is the most modern in the Krapina-Zagorje County area. It's a small system of 2,600 connections, little employees, 8 employees, total revenues of about 5 million kuna, here are losses, mentioned here 50%, with us at 30%, reduced in the last 3 years by more than 50%. So we can say yet one somewhat small maybe but quite arranged system. I'll say 12 successful investments are currently under way, some are higher, some are less valuable. I think the citizens are actually satisfied there and actually the price, as I said before much lower than the company that should now take over. So our fears are that this merger will result in a reduction in the first operationality because it covers a fairly large area for so one, for such a small number of inhabitants it is about 70 km2, that it will decrease, that it will reduce the efficiency of maintenance of water facilities and of course it will in some way act and defeat the city, and the citizens will, of course, not be satisfied with the increase in these prices at which local self-government will have absolutely no impact. The regular business of that company covers for the time being from the price of water. And for the investments that there are, I'm going to list a few, there have been over the past 3 years, 6.5 million kuna, currently investments of 2.5 million kuna are under way, and more investment of 4.7 million kuna is expected to be approved, and this actually ends the entire 5% more water supply system that needs to be completed to cover the entire population. And now only those investments were partly allocated to co-financing from the city budget. I was now expecting at least a legal solution to be said, okay, if you're already going to round up then at least you won't be burdened again by the budgets of the local self-government units. But here we see that this is not really the case, that there will remain a burden on the budgets of the unit of local self-government because it clearly stands in the law and that a model of centralised is actually envisaged which is not good. This centralised model can also lead to increased maintenance costs which, in some perspective, can lead to an increase in these maintenance costs, may lead to some consideration towards privatisation despite the fact that this law is this anti-privatization character and is clearly stated, however, this doubt exists and it is floating here somewhere in the air and I see that some colleagues have also mentioned it. If we already need a roundup for withdrawing funds from EU funds at least here, on this example that I have cited, which is not very representative, we have shown that we can do so through a small system if you are well organized and quality. But if we already need it, which I support going towards the circle, then we could have done it in some other ways. We also have the possibility of project consortiums, we also have the possibility of establishing certain bodies that are created exclusively for this purpose, etc. without actually questioning one autonomy of local self-government for one planning I will say local development because it is extremely important if you create a good and quality water supply network in the area of a municipality or city, hardly you will keep living there in that area, it is a prerequisite, however, it was a prerequisite even in the 20th century, unfortunately we are already solving now that we are fat in the 21st century. So I will say here that this self-sustainability, that financial stability, that the efficiency of public suppliers cannot be measured once again by the quantity of water delivered if the price in a service area is affordable if that public supplier is self-sustainable, if it is financially stable, then it can be actually and should be established in that area that delivers less water than what the proposal is here. What I still have for the end of a few doubts like this, I'm not happy to go according to it, which has actually been overcome by some kind of momentum to go towards a grouping in companies, even though I know it's been considered and going to institutions, just because of the character itself. We're talking about something public, we're talking about common good, we're talking about water supply, we're talking about draining, something that needs to be kept public, and I think it would be better to protect it through the law to say that the accumulation goes to the level of institutions that have a non-profit character. I still have a problem with this, and I would also like to get an answer, whether a situation with EU projects has been considered, because the question of how some competent authorities will actually accept these changes in the ongoing projects, whether there will be a denial of already approved funds, so there are a lot of issues, therefore from changes to the documentation, permissions of resolved property-legislative relations, etc., so the way they will act here, if of course there will be a division of society into several of these public suppliers. It was mentioned of course, I think that through the law they were not well regulated or working relations, we have, of course, a large number of employees in these companies that are now being rounded, I think that they should have been more specific and defined their working relations and their position in these new companies, and the deadlines for joining are definitely too short, the establishment of branches should also be more detailed, the question of local water lines that there are very many, for which there has already been legal regulations, unfortunately no one has actually been affected by that, has also been reduced to one sentence in this law. So there are a lot of open questions in my opinion that need to be resolved until another reading and try to make one more flexible law and still take care of systems that work very well and now go into some kind of uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135883	Thank you, fellow Vesligai, we have replicas. Dear colleague Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135884	Dear fellow Vesligaj, you will agree with me, that it is good that the law goes into two readings, to respect all these discussions and all these reflections, and when we talk about the development of smaller environments than local self-government units and development in their area of water supply and disposal, then we know what the means of development are in the price structure of service. In my opinion, and I think that each of us must aim to make these resources the original incomes of the local self-government units, strictly dedicated resources exclusively for the development of water supply or disposal in this area because that is the meaning of something that our citizens pay for. That it must be the last example, when the majority owner just yesterday, the city of Rijeka in my area, raised the price of water service without asking co-owners, we find out from the media. So what am I saying? It must not be centralised in this way without abandoning the units of local self-government because it is paid by our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135885	Answer me, Comrade Vesligai, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135886	Thank you. Well, I think that's exactly what I stressed through the debate that it is necessary to respect one autonomy unit of local self-government. In this case we're going towards centralization of something, not centralization the same word that should be bauk for me, there's also centralization of its advantages, but there are great flaws. If it's any policy to decentralize something, to go set up something that works well, to leave it at a lower level, to try something and to bring it down from the state level, then let's go through the law to find some kind of solution that will be good and that will allow the system that works well to remain that way, so that, at any moment, citizens should be asked, we need to conduct a public debate, open, honest, correct and then I think the citizens will accept it because of course we are all aware of the investment in public infrastructure, we need very big funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135887	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135888	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, you mentioned that the problem that the law does not specify more precisely what will happen to workers in smaller utility companies that should be taken over, I don't think that this should be particularly regulated by this regulation, but we already have it regulated by the Law on Commercial Companies, so as far as I understand, when agglomeration areas are formed where the larger or the strongest municipal enterprise in fact will take over the rest of them, so I don't think that it should be specifically prescribed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135889	Thank you, Comrade Squirt's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135890	Thank you. So I really hope that it will be as you said, that all of these positive regulations that we have to protect workers in the Republic of Croatia will be respected, that they will have all the rights that they have in the existing, therefore, businesses they work in. However, you know yourself that we have often not been very witnesses to this in the Republic of Croatia, that we have often witnessed labour rights violations, it is the most important part of these companies, but I will talk about field workers, those blue collars, and I think we should protect them, and what it is is is people who maintain these systems in rural areas that they know very well, and it will be very bad if they are going to be there for some cost cutting in the future, I say further about maintenance, and there is unfortunately that privatisation space that I mentioned earlier in my presentation, I believe that they will not come to this, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135891	I'd like to thank my colleague, Vesligai. Next debate, respected colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135892	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, so here's the good news that these three laws are united, primarily because the subject is very similar. What should be said was very important to approach this reform of the water utility sector because we know that in the programme itself, the very national reform programme that was adopted long before, and we are all aware that the current situation where we have very many water service suppliers is almost 200, that such a situation is long-term unsustainable. And in addition, what is very important is that this water services sector actually makes areas that are more or less economical, so they need to be united in order to also invest, and also to maintain systems as rational as possible. It has already been mentioned that actually public water supply is covered by over 80%, and that in fact the disposal system is the one that is missing and not solved in over 40 %, 47% of the area, therefore, the Republic of Croatia does not have a good disposal system or all the units of local self-government have thought of it well enough and therefore it is safe and further development of any industry, tourism and everything else, very important to move forward with the development of this system since we will actually have this as a limiting factor in the development of our economy. I must say that, in relation to some of the provisions of the law, it is very important to say that here and said that these are actually laws which are anti-privatisational nature, so we must be aware there and it is proven that even the water does not want to be privatised, which some colleagues like to point out as some way of privatising our water economies, and it is also important to note that in the system of using and draining water treasure it was really necessary and it is necessary to negotiate concessions in order for this drawing to happen. Therefore, it is not equal to whether it is a concession system and when it is identified with some kind of privatisation. It is also important to say that such facilities and suppliers cannot be burdened with neither publishing rights, nor mortgages, nor go into bankruptcy, which is also important to note that the public has knowledge of this. When we talk about the law itself, here, which has been the most changed, which is the Water Services Act, and then we reflect on the Water Law and on the financing of the water economy, then for example, here, the Zadar Waterway and the sewerage, we draw over, deliver over 10 million cubic metres of water, therefore, this factor that is in the law determined that the creation of the area, or the amount of exhausted water here, is not a problem and in the ownership structure of the city of Zadar has over 71% of the share in the water line of Zadar itself, while we have a drain that is 100% owned by the city of Zadar, therefore, by joining the two companies is not a problem with us. However, what should be said is that really that coverage that in art. 7 It is prescribed for the service area, in fact it will probably expand to the part that will cover the county itself, is it, because surely, or at least part of the county that will thus create certain effects or enable some development, further development. What I would like to say is that, let's say, in our area with the former Water Economy Financing Act, we actually managed to finance a system that is 100 thousand equivalent to the population, which is actually a system that also cleanses and a water purification device, and in this way we actually determined in the developmental structure how much of the 1,63, what is this fee per meter of cubic relation to the construction of the cleaning device, and how much to build, for example, the main collector of the high zone, and then in that fee we were going to channel the construction itself, and within that value of 1,63, we reroute the funds as it should have been at a certain point. It used to be more necessary to build, and now, here, he's evolved. So that moment where local self-government decides in quality with its commercial utility, I think it's very important because that way it can properly direct further development and increase capacity for, here, this way, building facilities and disposal and cleaning of waste water. The code, when we compare and we look at the law ourselves, then here, I'd warn you the same thing. 21, given that, in relation to the Company Act, there may be a need to take a closer look at whether this is a happy solution as an additional right to vote, given that there could be a conflict between the Company Act and the other laws. So I don't think that's a very happy solution because then, here, in relation to the stakes that local self-government units have compared to others, it could happen to each other's differences in, say, further investments. Likewise, Art. The 33rd limit of borrowing, you put here how much it's worth. It is really important to establish with a certain date how much the level of responsibility of a single unit of local self-government, i.e. for companies, could then be further, this could be put very simply, in accordance with the Budget Law. Here, therefore, all in all, the law intensities of one and the other and the third are in any case of quality, and in this way will be much faster and better resolved, and as regards the deadlines that are here in the acquisition of societies, indeed. 88, I think they're too short and many won't be able to comply with those deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135893	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Lonchar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135894	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, I know that you know the situation when it comes to the development of economic zones and investment in the communal equipment of the economic zone, especially in the sewers and the plumbing. It happens that municipalities and cities across Croatia invest very large funds and that they were not in the public system. So please, as legislation is not provided here, whether municipalities and cities, who have invested so much money, have or should have any possibility of being freed from the part of maintenance of that system or returning funds as much as they have actually invested in these systems, especially when it comes to removing funds from the balance sheet that they have invested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135895	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135896	Ha, it's hard for me to say, and this is whether it can be asked somehow, from which we might ask for a return, it was actually the orientation of each of the leaders who participated in creating the development of their city or municipality, so these advantages now have citizens, residents of those areas in relation to those others who didn't do it, but I think that role is visible and I don't think we have the possibility of any refund from anyone, right, that's more than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135897	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, is not present. Dear colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135898	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague, all three laws go in the right direction and I agree with the great majority of the text, a few of my observations. Thus, the Water Act prescribes the management of water which is made up of all the tasks that involve, undertaken by the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the JLS in order to achieve the objectives of water management. These objectives are to improve the state of the aquatic eco-systems, better protect and improve the state of the aquatic environment, ensure a reduction of groundwater pollution and contribute to the mitigation of the effects of floods and droughts. Now let me also have a few personal positions as chairman of the Commission for Fundamental Accidents because we have had two thematic sessions precisely because of the great interest in the subject of floods, because of the threat of human lives and property due to floods in the Republic of Croatia, it is important to manage flood risks through legislation, and to mitigate their adverse consequences with the purpose of finding a solution to the current and possible threats to the population. Given the problem that has been present for the past few years and related to the increase in river levels, which consequently affects the quality of life of the population inhabited in the surrounding areas, it is necessary to implement measures to protect or prevent them from spilling rivers from their troughs. We have today and today and some new information from the Ministry of Environmental Protection that the river is not being used up, especially in Drava because of the hydrocentrale. The aim is to maintain and maintain the flow of water regularly in order to avoid the erosion of the bottom of the coast, and to prevent the formation of ice barriers by forming piles, applications, there is a change in the flow of the river and increased erosion of the coast. The work of maintaining the depth of the waterway includes removing the excess application at individual locations, but it is up to us to carry out the work depending on the intensity of the deposits at individual locations. Exploitation of sand and gravel may be allowed through the concession Treaty. Therefore, where there is no problem with the flow of the trough, there is no possibility of commercial use. The Commission for Essential Accidents would prefer to see an article related to the ban, I quote, it is allowed to extract gravel or sand under certain conditions, not negation, because the negativity is immediately associated with exclusion, which we consider not to be good. Croatian waters have resulted in conditions and measures and scanners of waterways on the Sava and Dravi rivers in a way that partially spreads the application within the riverbed and partially removes the extraction of applied material. The latest changes to the law allowed the sand removed from the river to be used for rabbit dikes, which is good. For Kupu and Una, during the main assessment of the acceptability of the ecological network procedures, it has been estimated that there is no extraction of application outside the trough. All this leads to the conclusion that the permission to extract materials is practically reduced to a minimum, and the process takes a long time to remove the application and its use is practically difficult to achieve. Croatian waters have already received more demands from JLS and other companies in charge of building public buildings for a larger amount of sand and gravel. Our goal is to find a compromise solution, and to reconcile from one side of the Environment and Nature Protection Association, on the other hand to try to reduce to the greatest possible extent the threat of an elementary flood disaster wherever possible. Surely none of us are interested in the devastation of riverbeds and headless exploitation of gravel and sand from rivers if we are all interested in allowing the removal of clusters of those for the purpose of better flow and reduction of the possibilities of rivers, as well as commercial purposes. Surely each of our rivers has specific features because it is not the same possibility of applying gravel throughout the Drava River stream because of the hydrocenters. With the sand it is different, due to the application of the sand, there is a closure of the waterway, the lower flow of the river Drava. The construction of the Osijek-Beli Manastir highway, Minister Butkovic, as far as I have information, is in preparation for two million cc's of gravel and please, I appeal, to enable it, 100 million kuna is cheaper than to drive it outside, 100 million kunas would destroy the roads and 100 million kuna is a contribution to the economy, 300 million kuna. Furthermore, we also believe that it is not normal for us to have a ban on the exploitation of gravel and sand from the left bank of the Sava River, while it is done uninterruptedly on the right side of the Bosnian side. We also heard about nature today about nature 2000, we do not extract sand from Drava, on the Hungarian side it is extracted. So, that's what I'm talking about, installing in the highway, secretary of state, please make it possible, especially for this corridor of Osijek-Beli Manastir, so this is about large funds if we know that several billion kunas have been spent on the entire corridor of C5. The Water Services Act regulates the establishment of service areas with a delivery of 2 million metres cubic, the founders of which are JLS and in the service area and thus achieves the investment capacity of the supplier as well as financial and stability and self-sustainability. So the integration of cca is prescribed. 190 small in 35-40 single suppliers. Why is that good? This is good because most of the small ones had no financial capacity or were and most of these small plumbings did not work or had sanitary or other conditions. Furthermore, it happened that for example, you end up agglomeration, you pave the roads and then you crack an old salon pipe, then you beg someone and godfather to fix it, no one will, then it pays from the compensation units of local self-government one part, and the other part again the unit of local self-government, so JLS itself. This way of integration ensures the implementation of the principle of reimbursement of costs from water services and the water supply is financed from the price of water and the municipal water infrastructure from EU funds, state budgets and JLS. It also regulates the social affordability of water prices, enables access to all JLSs in the core capital of a public supplier in the service area, and it is good that all important decisions will be taken by a double majority in the public suppliers' assemblies, thus guaranteeing a balanced development of all JLS. It's basically OK, but I'm asking that question again, and I'm curious now whether such a double majority will have an understanding for the needs of one JLS that needs to be built at that point 300 or 400 or 500 meters of water, so it will determine that it needs this moment, not the other one, or how it will determine the majority, the double majority. It is a good thing that the installation of special waterways for part of the property is regulated, but also alternative access to public taps up to 50 liters per household member even in case of suspension. The law is financed, the Act on the financing of water services is regulated and.../incomprehensible/... the fees charged for water treatment charged in addition to the communal fee that, with the existing purpose of the cost of construction of the coastal draining can be used to settle the costs of billing charges, which is logical and normal. A decision on development compensation as well as its purpose to finance a local component within the EU as part of the EU co-financing of municipal water buildings would now be taken by a public delivery body whose members are all JLS, which I say again well in the event that, if understanding is to be found in the given moments, and is well due to stable incomes of the entire agglomeration and distributed on the principle of solidarity. The laws are good, they're a big step towards better, and until the second reading we'll fix them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135899	I thank my colleague Križanić. Next debate, dear colleague Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135900	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues today, we have 3 proposals for a law from the water economy, that is, the Water Act, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Economy Financing Act and the Water Services Act. The first two laws have existed in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia since 1996, and it is in fact necessary to amend these two laws in order to pass this new Water Services Act. In my debate today, I will refer to the proposal of the Water Services Act. We have already heard that in Croatia public water supply is available for a large majority of our population, only 6% of the population is not available public water supply, but on the other hand even more than half of the population has no public drainage, public sewerage is 47% more accurate, and of these 47% of public drains only half of the waste water is being cleaned up, and half of it is unfortunately at an inadequate level of purification according to the requirements of the Treaty of Accession of the EU. Currently, there are slightly less than 190 water suppliers in Croatia, of which only 28 cover 4/5 total water consumption. For example, the Netherlands 10, Hungary 41, Bulgaria 28 etc. have a smaller number of suppliers of England, Hungary, Bulgaria 28 etc., we also have about 200 small water lines that are outside the public water supply system that supply about 4% of the population and do not have adequate water quality control. There are also 73 units of local self-government of 555 which we have in Croatia which are not the founders of any water service provider, which I find completely amazing, which means that 73 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have no public water supply anywhere in their area or are not adequate to say registered in the capital of the water supplier that delivers in this area. In fact, the water services sector is a major annual turnover of around 3.9 billion kuna and still around 30% of suppliers are operating with a loss, and besides these financial losses, there are really drastic water losses in public water supply systems that are constantly growing and are now at the state level of about 50%. Despite large resources being invested in water supply, these losses are not reduced, but still have rising trends, and the acceptance of losses at EU level is up to 20% of the water affected. Due to such a fragmented state and the status of the water service council which is now ah hot body, it is not a permanent body that, if necessary, meets, there is no complete control of the central state at costs and prices of water. This situation in the sector indicates the need for urgent and serious reform of the water services sector, a reform that is our obligation from the moment we signed a contract for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. This Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU requires the implementation of investments in the area of water services of the total planned value of EUR 3.7 billion and achieves the objectives of two directives, the European Directive, the Directive on the treatment of municipal waste water and the Water Directive on human consumption. What is important to emphasise is that one of the important and binding requirements of the European Funds, that after the implementation of the mentioned large investments financed from EU water prices, must cover the total cost of management, drive and depreciation of water buildings, and on the other hand must be affordable to consumers, so that it does not exceed a certain rate of net available income per household per year, and that rate for the Republic of Croatia is 3%, In meeting these requirements of the European Funds we find serious structural problems, unfortunately, these requirements will not be feasible if the current system of fragmented water service suppliers is maintained, we have also heard that the process of withdrawing European funds and the implementation of projects. Furthermore, these requirements will not be realised if the trend of non-settlement of operational costs or losses of companies financed from the price of water services continues. Finally, it will not be realised if the local self-government unit and the public water service suppliers do not act, in addition to the Republic of Croatia, are responsible for the implementation of EU-oriented investments under our Association Agreement. It was regulated by this law. 63rd and 64th. Therefore, this proposal for a law is a systematic and institutional response to the issues in question, the proposal for a law is prescribed or requires the rounding of water service suppliers to one public water service provider in the service area, then water distribution, draining and wastewater treatment. The law stipulates that public suppliers of water companies are capital, which means they are formed as limited liability shares or companies, I believe that before the association of the company should be transformed into d.o.o. Because, in terms of the change in ownership, it is a more closed society, I think that only one or two companies that delivers water services today, and societies are organised as stock companies, then it would be easier to implement and control anti-privatisation, if the nature of this law is known that shares are freely traded which are not in the spirit of this law and can easily be subject to possible abuses, which would then have to be resolved and repealed by judicial means. I believe that the form, therefore, of a limited liability company, is much more appropriate for public suppliers. The proposed law lays down the conditions for the establishment of service areas with a minimum supply of water of two million cubic metres per year, the proposal provides for the obligation to establish a single public water service provider in the service area as a company of capital whose founders are all units of local self-government in the service area, and thus are achieved so that all existing suppliers are attached to the largest supplier in the service area. In our ship-Posavina County we have two water service suppliers, it is the water pipeline Slavonski Brod d.o.o. from Slavonski Brod and Waterway West Slavonia d.o.o. from Nova Gradiška. The Slavonski Brod Waterway delivers 4 million cubic metres annually, while the West Slavonia Waterway delivers significantly less than 2 million cubic metres, which is a condition for being a public supplier under this law. On the other hand, if we observe future relations in ownership shares, the Slavonski Brod, which is significantly larger, has less than 80 million core capital, while the Western Slavonia Waterway has about 130 million kunas of core capital. Not to mention certain municipalities or units of local self-government that participate in capital with 0.01% of core capital, and they built in their arrangement and plumbing and sewerage network that never crossed or entered the basic capital of the Slavonski Brod. In order to carry out a fair association, these share of consciousness under one denominator should, or should carry out an evaluation of the company prior to association, and establish a new value for their underlying capital, which we know is a expensive and long-term process. In order for this association to be carried out as provided for by this law, I believe that a simpler and fair solution to this situation could be made to implement association or association on the basis of existing data, and that, as future criteria in decision-making in the assembly, it means, future property, determine the criteria for the number of residents of a particular unit of local self-government, which has already been made, exist in the waterway of Zagreb County, and I think that this law should provide for one such freer, to say, the merger of suppliers in order to reduce them, of course, when they are, in association with the Government's regulation. Allow me to further point out that I believe that the capital situation and the attachment reserves and the number of employees should be set on an earlier date than defined in Art. No. 88th century. 6th century. The proposed law, which stands at 1.1.2019, should stand here on 31.12.2018, on the date on which all the necessary reports required here are concluded, or on the date 1.1. or others during the year, require the re-making of those reports, and opens the possibility of so-called Creative accounting for the current business year. After the adoption of this law in this House, the deadlines for their implementation are quite short, which requires exceptional dynamics to address truly complex issues, and most sensitive is certainly the issue of ownership and future decision-making rights although they exist, here is the safeguard mechanism of decision-making for the double majority. By the time this law is passed and its entry into force, I am sure that part of the units of local self-government and current water suppliers will not be satisfied with the membership model and will not be inclined to attach, so that they will not do anything to bring it closer, so that these legal deadlines can come into question. But here, ultimately, this law should ensure full reform of the Water Services Sector, and here is our club and I will also support the proposal. this law to go to another reading. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135901	...to a respected colleague. We have several replicas, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135902	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Cosic, and I, like you, welcome the adoption of this package of laws, in fact the harmonisation of the Water, Water and Water Services Act and through your Slavonski Brod flows Sava and the price of water is not the same as in the mountainous mountainous area, so I come where the double price is and therefore I welcome the adoption of this law precisely because of the equalisation of the price of water. However, water and water maintenance services are also the same in Slavonski Brod, Zagreb or, for example, in the mountainous mountainous area. I think that the promoter should also consider this, perhaps, that this price should not be the same or that, through the reduction of VAT or in some other way, this price may be arranged in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135903	Thank you. Reply from fellow Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135904	Thank you very much. Comrade Babić, you were thinking perhaps of compensation for, compensation yes, so the fee is prescribed at the state level, and while the services are, depending on the area to the area and rounding these areas, it will be unique in the entire service area. So it won't be different for certain units of local self-government, so I think this law is good at it because everything that's done in the service area will be unique to all units of local self-government. So far, certain units, and I said, and I singled out their own assets and colleagues here, the mayor of Bakar had talked about it before, they invested a lot of their assets, but, the River waterworks don't accept their capital in the company's capital, so he stays on his small capital, or their capital would not be violated, so This unification will be certain [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] equal. [[Intruder: Next Replic...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135905	...Dear colleague Josip Križanić, please. Turn on the mic, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135906	You've talked about deciding twice as many members in case of important decisions, and that's okay, and we accept that, and that's good. However, I am interested in what is the situation when the board is elected, or the director of society? In that case, is it chosen by a double majority or by a simple majority? Because if the directors are elected by just the simple majority, in which case we know that the director and the management are directing funds in the direction he wants it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135907	Thank you. Reply from fellow Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135908	I thank my colleague Križanić, so by this law, this law also envisioned, as for all companies, all bodies, so it precisely defines directors and deputies, and the administration is chosen by a proportional majority of capital. Unfortunately, I don't think it's a good thing if it's usually one or two people who's going to take over the capital about it, they're going to choose the director. We know what the first man in one administration means, he can do a lot, a lot of good and a lot of good, but he can do a lot of damage, so all these other decisions concerning water services and plans, investments and everything else chosen by that decision by a double majority can come into question. I think you should consider that management is also chosen by a double majority, so there should be no majorization of these big ones towards the small ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135909	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cosic. Next debate, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135910	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will continue to discuss what I missed out on behalf of the club. You are referring to Article 52 of the Constitution, which is completely understandable. However, I would only remind you of an article. 49. which speaks of entrepreneurship freedoms, capital companies etc., which states in one of its paragraphs, the rights acquired by investing capital cannot be reduced by law, nor by other legal act. Market freedoms can and property can be limited, but proportionately, proportionately. So you have to prove that those societies that will be attached to this law are polluting the environment or you have to prove exactly what interests are in protecting the environment of human health, that I only see local water pipelines and some water distributors that practically do not have sustainability, however, this law does not recognise in such a way. The fact is, this law is a product of the founding state. The question is, we can all ask ourselves, even though it's been there since 2008, in 2009 and through strategic documents, it's missed back about 4 to 5 years. This law should come at the latest, and this law should have come for discussion, adoption, before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU because we are obviously not ready for the absorption of European money, this can be read from this. The fact is that the objectives that are to be achieved by this law are positive, good, but we believe that the way should nevertheless be corrected, respected both local and regional specificities and respected the autonomy of local self-government, which is based on the European Charter, because this is certainly disrupting, and also indirectly disrupting the will of the majority. The debate here shows very clearly who will be for this law, and who has certain observations and what are the reasons, so that's what I'm talking about local, regional specificities. In my neighborhood, people are back 60, 70, even 100 years old. They built a water supply system, they had water springs, they were captivating their work, when a utility company was founded about 60, 70. That's when the only contributions were made, invested, invested, the neighborhoods had local water lines, what did the leaders do? Absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing. And we've had a few local water lines from the budget, from the development funds, we've built a system for them ourselves, and why haven't others? I can ask the question, I understand fiscal capacity isn't enough, that's what I'm saying about solidarity, yes, but to what level? Because they're gonna set me up with my first citizens why are the development funds we pay for the water service going somewhere else? Why did their budgets like ours go back 10, 15, 20 years, not invest, but wait for something to do with them? A very objective question, I'd like you to give me an answer. This integration that's planned, it's based on numbers, analysis, and that's where we can argue over some tiny details. She's the one I believe is who she is. However, in these suppliers that have 2 million and more cubics, how do they operate, how do they operate? How much is their water loss? Do they have a water supply system at a level that should be? Do they have the drain properly? I'm asking a question, we don't have an answer, maybe you know, I believe you do. Namely, what's going to happen? He had 190 water service suppliers, the goal is 50, 40 no matter now, we can speculate with numbers and what do we get? We're gonna ask the good guys, they're gonna get average, or they're gonna disappear. And those who are evil or evil, they shall remain on the same level. When I said in the debate, on behalf of the club, I wish we had, one, let's say, one broader look, one broad analysis, to the whole state. To the whole state. The fact is that water supply, we can say that we are somewhere in the criteria of those desired, even though there's still plenty of space there, to make it better, better quality as far as water loss is concerned. That's what I'm going back to when I said that I think the law would be much better quality if you had provided for certain financial resources. Exactly for reasons, because if the funds are accumulated in good ones, to call them that, I don't think these others are bad in a negative sense, but as far as sustainability business is concerned, you took them, to make them even better. That's what this is about. That is why I was suggested in the debate, and I will propose a proposal, compensation for the use of water goes to the state, the intention to protect water goes to the state, it is transferred by the basis of competition from Croatian waters, again one part, not all, not all of it, you are aware of it, because Croatian waters also have to leave something for themselves, leave those funds. If you want, and I also want this to be implemented, this law, we'll see the results in 5, 10 years. And not in the whole area of the Republic of Croatia, because the short period of time, in order to meet the criteria, if the sanitary sewerage is now, that is, the drain covers some 50%, let's be realistic and objective. Leave these funds, go for changes, one more or change now, to stay in the service area of this means, not Croatian water for that, will lose a lot, will have to be reorganized a little bit, will have to become more rational, but with this you covered the state component and you gave, then they have no distributors alibis that have no where to come from. What you would also like to say in the Finance Act, water compensation, 10% goes local and now you have predicted that it can also be used for the part that costs have local self-government. What's a water fee? We pay it squared, to the surface of the roof, to the building, which we have either space, which is outside or industrial land. Where does the water from those surfaces go? He's going to the coastal drain. One small part, depending on specificities, enters rivers, streams, some water streams, 10%, and you mentioned the possibility of communal, pardon, public delivery, to deal with the coastal drain, consider transferring more funds. Only to be a means of purpose, because they are a means of purpose. By doing so, you would in some way make a commitment and give them an injection. Why am I saying that? We're still testifying, I remember a little longer from the bar, so I know certain trends, which were in the drain, the hour was a separatical system, so we were going back to the mixed, and then back to the separatical, it was wandering. Where was he wandering from? From Croatian waters. Unfortunately, certain trends as the system goes, dictated materials on the market. It's sad to hear, of course, you have no guilt, you have no responsibility, but let's avoid such trends. Because the fact is, whatever we do, based on the law, to configure the terrain, the waterworks that are on certain local occasions, we will never cover a particular area. And right through this system, miniseptics or mini purifiers, with funding we'll be able to make and respond to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135911	I would like to thank my colleague Batinić, a replica of his esteemed colleague, Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135912	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear counterpart Batinić, you mentioned integration and I am also interested, I can understand, the aim of the legislator, i.e. by proposing that by rounding up, by joining more water lines, you should encourage projects, development, to reach the environment, for which they do not have the capacity. However, with the criteria themselves, it is not clear to me, for example. Here, Slavonia, Baranja, or... County from where I come from, that a student water pipeline, which according to all its criteria and self-sustainability and financial, especially having their own draw-out sites, is 1.5,7 million cubic metres of water is delivered, but they also have a project to drain Đakovo's agglomeration worth about 200 million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they can, they have shown that they know and they would now, according to the proposal, only because of these numbers with Osijek, while we have a second series per county, a lot, a lot smaller with which they could preserve the jackal line, of course with the goal of continuing their long-term tradition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135913	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Batinic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135914	Yes, colleague Curaj, that's what I was saying I shouldn't, mathematics is exact and should not fight numbers, they show facts, but there are certain specificities and it has been proven that some smaller distributors of 700, 800, million cubics are equally functional, sustainable, they develop from their own components, they do projects, European projects, so it's not necessary to slave to that amount of 2 million cc's, although it's mathematically proven for the ultimate goal, and that's a 3% affordability. So when are we gonna have that affordability in 10, 15, 20 years? Some things should have been prescribed for me, not for the moment when the law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135915	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135916	Dear fellow, you mentioned the significant losses that systems have, they are on average at least 50%, that and from our example, but there is not enough accumulation of funds to restore the existing network because from the price of 6%, from the price of water is not enough to build and restore and we know that there are very many losses, there are old pipes that I don't know yet how many 10 years, over 10 years that actually make huge losses and I say, investment is insufficient since there are not enough funds or the possibility that this is participating in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135917	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Batinic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135918	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Members, that's a problem that won't solve this law. We're all aware of that. It is also aware of both the assistant and the secretary and the president of the water service council who, as a regulator, will have one of the key roles in what is more than positive, will resolve finances but equally responsibility, the rationality of the water suppliers themselves, but, above all, finance. For this reason, I suggest that if it is possible until the second reading that we have one full and financial structure if we have formal, legal and mathematical, to consider further separation and the goals that the law has, so who can't support it? Well, we'll all support that, but we need to provide financial resources for that more the law overlooked which is good that local self-government can also finance additionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135919	I thank my colleague Batinić. Angel Striker, not present. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135920	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. I reported for one intervention by the head of the unit of local self-government from the island of Brac and the waterway of Brac as regards Article 7. The Water Services Act, given that three of the seven, eight chiefs are also members of the HDZ and that this is the second time that I present their joint demands in the Assembly, I hope that you will be aware of this when you honor the members of the HDZ of Brač, I am running for office immediately. The specific proposal therefore refers to point 7 of Article 7(2) of this Act where it is proposed to establish a service area in existing water supply areas in which water is supplied for human consumption of at least 2 million m3 per year with a derogation of 10% not to apply to larger Adriatic islands. As far as I'm concerned, the water line of Jelsa agrees. Therefore, the fact is that public suppliers, in particular on larger Adriatic islands, already meet all the criteria set out in Article 1 for establishing a service area and as demonstrated by their positive business results, the average level of the price of water services and below the average losses in water supply systems compared to the Republic of Croatia. Since all the leaders of the local self-government of Brač have also been involved, I suppose your political secretary also shares concerns about the possible bad consequences of the abolishing of the Brač plumbing and therefore I suggest that this proposal be considered until the second reading. Of course, there is no need to ignore the organisational aspects that would make it difficult for such a whole, one company that would then have its branches on the island or have its branches on land and to take care of it. Also what I consider to be a priority for the islands of Brac and Hvar because of growing tourism is building another pipe through the Brač canal and teachingly further through the Hvar canal to allow regular water supply especially during the tourist season when a multiple number of people or people live or rest on those islands and, of course, it is also a great pressure for our water supply network. And finally, the question of water is one of the identities, the identity questions for us on Brač by stone, namely Vladimir Nazor, one of his famous songs about the native island, began with "Island without Water", and I hope that in the 21st century we will not have the beginning of "Island without Water", thanks to Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135921	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. I'm setting a break to 19 hours and 50 minutes. [[It's 19.38 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.40 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the work of the plenary session, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the topic is the water law package, which we are discussing today, and here I have waited for more than 10 hours to discuss, in an individual debate, say something in 10 minutes about this important topic that is on the agenda today. When I heard the opening explanations of what the intensity of this law is from the mouth of the Minister of Energy and Environment, one would say that there really are good reasons and that this law seems good. But what seems to be around, not because someone with really good intentions has written in this, but it can be the basis in the next stage, steps out, that this really important question brings us both as a country and as a people in a very difficult situation. I say, at the beginning of what it says here, what are the key objectives of this bill's proposal. Increase economic efficiency on the other hand, and who would disagree and support this law. However, we Croatian citizens have very unpleasant and bad experiences, for example. With the banking system, they told us so you have too many banks to round it up, you know you'll be better, lower interest rates and that, and we see that today the banking system is one of the key mechanisms for exhausting businesses, entrepreneurs, citizens and the entire people of Croatia. We see it by the number of completed people in the blockade and people who left Croatia to make money around the world, so they can pay off their debts. Now we in the Party Change Croatia You know we are not sensationalists, we do not deal with spectacles and here certain plays, we like to speak arguments and so I will do it this time. It is well established in the introduction of this bill that it has 190 water suppliers and of course a man thinks so wait it is impossible 190 suppliers, let's make order not to be 190, to be 20, but here is the intensity to be just one means that, to be under the hat of one administration all over the country. The reasons are also reasonable at first sight, why they sound reasonable, so you know there are smaller places, rural areas etc., they can't maintain water lines that are in bad shape anyway because it's said here that 50% of the water supply is leaking, and we all have to compensate or pay for it. But look what's behind it, which is behind it, so it wouldn't be a problem to accept and support this law if this were a regulated state. There's nothing sacred here anymore, why, because this law that looks good on the first one, it's good, it looks good. It will be the political structures that are corrupt where the government of political clientelism will simply do what they will say in the first step, listen to this you see a good law, and in the next step will go in my opinion safely to try to privatise water and water economy in the Republic of Croatia. I have already said that Croatia is full of political clientism, corruption, arrest. Which will be a consequence if this concept is realised to rationalise and centralise water supply from one place, to manage means to the water economy. Well, that just means that a significant number of people are gonna get fired, they're gonna lose their jobs. As an economist, I only understand that consequence. On the other hand, where does money come from to this country, whether there are 190 suppliers or is managed from one place to restore the water nets and no longer leaks 50% of the water and does not go to the country. But we from the Party Change Croatia have concrete proposals, so we, in this way, not because of the written law itself, but because it will be used differently we will not support it. Why? So because I said that these political structures that rule Croatia and still rule, they will abuse this law as the banks privatized sold to foreigners because they told us you have too many banks, now they tell us that there are too many water suppliers and that it should be prepared, in fact to solve or prepare for centralisation, and tomorrow to privatise. Well, you've seen how many remarks here today, though you might say not so clearly, were made by HDZ themselves, so you've seen how many remarks Mr Batinic has made from the HNS, but it doesn't bother him at the end saying he'll support it because in this trade coalition it's just how it's done. But here are concrete proposals, I studied, prepared for this debate, and what is the situation in the EU regarding water management, first of all, drinking water, you see? What does the 1m3 price structure look like in the EU? There are 8 actually in the structure, as far as I'm concerned, in the structure of forming the price of cubic water in the Republic of Croatia there are 8 different fees plus VAT, you see. You see, when we change Croatia, if God, in the next elections, with the will of the citizens, is in a position to participate in the conduct of honorary tasks of the country's individual restaurants, we will abolish the VAT on water, we will cancel again, the Party will change Croatia one of the first moves in the future government will be the abolition of VAT on water. Now, you know we're not sensationalists, you want arguments? Here's your argument. Britain, Great Britain has 0% of the VAT on water, and the Republic of Croatia among the 3 richest countries with drinking water in the EU and be careful, we calculate VAT on water. 14 EU countries have lower VAT on water than the Republic of Croatia, imagine 14 countries of 28 have lower VAT on water than we have. So here it is quite clear that VAT due to the general situation in the country, because water is generally good, which is a resource without which it cannot live, that we will simply remove VAT on water. We've heard different explanations here about how some water lines can't be maintained on the face, on the rural areas, etc. etc. And we see that the magic in the prices of water is all over the Republic of Croatia. Why can't the price of water be the same throughout the Republic of Croatia? Why can't it be? It can be, as it can't be, so why VAT is the same for the man who lives in Lica, Baranja, Slavonia, who are devastated by us here in Zagreb, we all have 25% of VAT, so let it cost the cubic water everywhere. And where will it be compensated for what someone can't build and manage in rural areas, from where? From the bank property tax, gentlemen, there are billions, so we can handle everything. You know, I didn't come to HS here to sell stories and fog, behind everything I say as a serious man in front of the Party to change Croatia, we offer solutions. So, cancel the VAT, I suggest you cancel the VAT until the second reading, no matter what I suggested, I'll welcome the first one here with a thunderous clap if you cancel the VAT, so let our troubled people not pay, we no longer know where the state cut us off, that people can drink water because the average water consumption in one Zagreb is about 6m3 per month per family member. That's what I'm saying because we just have to do something about it because it's really become unsustainable. In that sense, I call on you to abolish the VAT, I've led you to Britain, it has 0%, I've listed 14 countries, check who have lower VAT, so let's get up above all that, do something good for our citizens. No centralisation, remember, will solve the problem of poor water network and the management of these resources, it is quite clear as the centralisation of forest management in the Republic of Croatia has not yielded the expected results. The party will change Croatia will fight to prevent water, forests and farmland from entering the Constitution and selling to foreigners, but also to enter private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135924	Next debate, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135925	I thank you, Vice President. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection Mr. Šijega with his associates, given the area from which I come, which includes the waterway Makarska, Brela, means, Baska Voda, Makarska, Tučepi, Podgora, part of Drvenik, or settlement Živogosce, we certainly express our concern for this expansion and it is not because we are not solid, but here are clearly asking questions about what is going on? So, specifically in the area of Imotska krajina where there are 9 municipalities, so 100 liters of water is drained, chlorined, delivered and 8 liters are charged for 20 years. So, my colleague Lovrinović mentioned that 50% is stolen, that some are losses, not here is 92. We have a situation in the town of Vrgorec 80%, so there are losses, 100 liters of water is drained, chlorinated, brought, dragged and charged 20 liters of water. And of course, given that so little is charged, then of course the price of this water that this solidarity should now be less, it can't be less because it's being stolen because it's not being charged, and then we listen to all kinds of statements, don't accidentally think that I have something against the Imotian landscape, that I'm dragging the origin to defend the Imot Fortress here, it's my family that I have the credits and the grandmother's rewards, the husband's property and family is from Vrgorac, and I certainly appreciate that area, but in the way that further management is foreseen in this law, and we don't know who they're going to bring us together with, and in which way, there's the possibility of political trade and blackmail. Here, just before there was a colleague Babić here, so we have the Vrgorac municipality, or Vrgorac town, which is the largest of these cities in the area, he according to double decision-making in art. 23, 24. has only one vote, as well as the smallest municipality in the Imot region, and also in our area 6 units of local self-government live 15 thousand inhabitants who finance the supply of water for 100,000 people for 90-100 days, whose peak load grows and grows year after year. The one where it is now built so much that it is necessary to reconstruct the entire regional pipeline. It means the area which in a small number of municipalities happens tourism in Croatia. And this tourism finance, or our full budget, 20%, i.e. they participate in GDP 20%. And as it's possible that this area that's already being burdened anyway, it means 15 thousand residents are being financed by supply means water for 100,000 people, a hundred days, that the same area is funding today, tomorrow and the crime that's been going on for 20 years. Both in the area of Vrgorca and in the area of Imotska krajina. For solidarity we are, but for this way of deciding where those who should decide are representatives of individual municipalities have proven that they are not capable and that they cannot manage in this regard. This is not the way we are. We are also for compensation, for development fees, but we are also left with the possibility that as units of local self-government, as we have now worked, we can introduce compensation for certain development infrastructure projects in our field of local self-government units. Because that's how we built most of our system, and that's certainly something that should remain, so law, art. 7 I see that this debate has passed without great noise because it is naively seen that the only criterion is the quantity of water delivered. And it is believed that all will remain independent who have 2 million cc's of delivered water. We have four. 3 to 6 to 4 million cc's of delivered water. And we probably won't stay on our own because this law says yes, but it doesn't guarantee that we will remain on our own because there is no such supply of water around us. And I'm sorry that, here's a colleague here from the opposition says he absolutely supports the law, thus proving that he and his plumbing don't have enough capacity to read the article. 23 and 24 on which he is completely irrelevant tomorrow. And he has fundamental issues concerning the development plan, all investments, the financial plan, absolutely nothing to decide. So, we know that in the 1990s, certain municipalities remained within their borders as before, and some were divided. So we have a vast area whose settlements are larger than certain municipalities, but they don't decide anything. And we also have an area that is very full of budgets, which gives exactly 12.5 million kuna each year that goes into the central cash register for the development of compensation, which returns some million kunas, is absolutely expected to continue to support this attitude. So I don't think that's good at all. If we had to watch the Company Act and lex specialis do not derivate, these basic laws and definitely do not need to create a new Oil, invest the funds and give the resources of those who are sustainable, manage in a way that is not good and that does not lead to development because certainly solidarity fees, joint investments, so I would be most fortunate that we can help with our money and solidarity both rural areas and everything, but you would come up with the situation that fellow Babić and representatives of our municipality, he is from Lovreć, another one is needed for most of us in, so we have a majority in capital, so... the capital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's necessary... Two more municipalities, and as I hear it, such counsel is given at meetings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You are still breaking up with two municipalities, such as, perhaps, private interests, should not be at all public, to support this article too, to make decisions and development plans according to this Article 23 and 24 because the criteria of local self-government units one representative or worse, the number of inhabitants, since we have a tourist area in the coast that feeds the rest, is not good at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135926	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135927	Thank you very much. Ma'am. You're coming back. You have now given one of these interesting arguments that I do not see at first so that it can be resolved since there is nevertheless a particular area, certain municipalities, consumers, managers who participate together in certain procedures. I don't know how these small municipalities would handle it. So you have to look through the congregation and those who provide services, you have to get rid of management rights, I really don't know how you would offer a solution that, so you can't have every municipality of your own company, you understand? So, you'd like to be every municipality of your company to have. So, here, that's what I'm curious about, here's a whole picture of what you're thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135928	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Vranjš, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135929	Thank you. After 10 hours of discussion and reading this law, it is clear that our first municipal company, or water service provider, is not only functioning for 6 units of local self-government and there is nothing against solidarity and joint management in the wider area, but the way in which it is managed must be very clear, such as for companies, and compensation should be split for the development of these rural areas. Also, not to those who mismanaged, specifically representatives of such municipalities, which is not really a matter of bad governance, but means for 20 years you don't move to start charging that water and looking under your eyes so it doesn't charge and steal. That's not normal. The communal company that we're standing on from 48 has come to 38% of the losses, so it's made a move, to those who worked not to steal, to have fewer losses, to be given more rights in governance because it's proven that you're capable of better running your own... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135930	Thank you. Next replica, Comrade Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135931	Thank you very much. My colleagues, I would agree with you that the losses you have said are as much as 70, 80%, 90 even if the girls had spent their money through their fingers and that it was uncontrollable, had it not been invested in the infrastructure and that it was obsolete and that it was one of the bigger problems, mainly in mountain and mountain areas, which is why there is much more expensive electricity and... areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd agree with you, even this one. The 23rd and 24th votes will be the same no matter how many, that they will have the same value that they won't be, even that's to say questionable because they exist today in these companies where the management rights were different, as in my Cetina region, 6 units of local self-government, I agree with you. But otherwise, mountain-mounted areas are the biggest problem, which is the expensive power of a bulky cell, and we have solars, and maybe we should solve that with what you said, and the biggest problem is what doesn't need on the water VAT. That's what I said. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135932	Thank you, colleague Bulj, for the answer of my colleague, Vranjš.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135933	My friend Bulj, when you talk about water loss, it's not like she's wearing a hat right now, she's pouring out, but she's getting delivered, someone's not paying her, someone's using her, and she's not paying her. And as for the solars that you mention, I don't think we need one source of energy at all, you just mention it, and you say, "I don't know what's going to stop going to use the wood for the heat," but it's not exactly like that, and not every house in the rural environment is going to put solars, nobody's going to use wood, which is going to put on the solar system as they say, everybody's smiling when you're discussing it, and we really can't focus on one source of energy if we want to be energy independent and you can't go back to those solars in every debate because really me and you've been through this a couple of times and we've been discussing it, but read the law one time you come to debate and discuss it from the beginning to the end. Here today you have debated in a way that your representatives can see that they have not read the law at all and that absolutely debate can go through anything because no one touches the subject, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135934	I thank my colleague Vranjesh, I would ask you colleagues not to, in your debate, disrespect your colleagues. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here we go again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135935	Thank you very much, Chairman, for the violation of Article 238, because my colleague told a series of lies. First of all, you said I didn't read the article, the law, that's first. The second you didn't drink the mind of the whole world, and I said it was expensive gas stations and that electricity was very expensive and that the water that pumps too expensive, and that it was built into microsolares which would now be installed into certain pumps to be solved. And you insult that no one has read the law except you. I mean, are you really saying, I'm even a river of 23, 24 articles. I supported you. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135936	Kola Bulj I would ask you nicely not to do another thing you don't want anyone to do to you. [[Intruder: He has an uncultural behavior, Mr. President.]] So, I warned my colleague, Vranjesh, not to belittle the MPs by thinking of you, and you're doing the same to her, and she's still a woman. So, you're still a gentleman from the Dalmatian Mountain, and I don't think that's appropriate for a gentleman from Sinj, and so please Article 238 doesn't talk about untrues, so don't talk about any untrues, and please don't abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vranjš go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135937	I made my assessment first, and my colleague made his insults clear in the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135938	My colleagues, I ask you to continue to refer to the article of the Rules of Procedure which has been injured, you have not called. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135939	Your Honor, I will not return to my colleague, you are insulting the article, you have injured Article 238, because you are talking to me about a bonton on Article 238, you would have given yourself a reminder if I did not insult a colleague like it was, the whole time what they are insulting, not just you, you received it from the prime minister because it is now brand and trend to insult me and it is a jir, and it suits you. So you're giving yourself a warning, Mr. Brcko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135940	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj, based on Article 239, to give you a reminder. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, a little debate has gone a little bit perhaps unnecessary, because certainly Mr. Bulj, if he weren't a gentleman, wouldn't be a member of the Alkar society in Sinj, so a guy on several occasions, so they don't accept people who aren't gentlemanly and that's all that's understood. So when we talk about this law, I've been thinking a little bit, and when I see what everyone in Croatia pays at the price of water cubicity, and how it's essentially non-transparently arranged, that people don't even know from the middle to the middle see a different price, but nobody gets to denigrate what's in the cubic, how much water costs, how much it costs to drain, how much it costs to the purifier, etc., etc. In fact, we see what is certainly a fact in the Republic of Croatia, which is that our fellow citizens are paying too high a price for water and that we may need to see ourselves, look at in some way, in some ways, some countries, or one country, though, are now the only one in the EU of Ireland that has allowed its citizens as a basic human right, the right to free water, and there for a number of years, I remember, was a great pressure to make it possible and eventually the citizens of Ireland managed to fight it. We are far more unfortunately than Ireland, unfortunately a lot of our citizens go to Ireland and tell us about a society that is much better developed, which is more open, which is kind of more orderly than Croatia and we kind of look at it a little bit and I personally would like it to be in Croatia, but you can't when you're not able to manage things or lie about how you think it should be, and the priorities of Mr. Plenkovic's government are quite different, but what I want to say is that in Croatia we have a situation where, for example, in the City of Zagreb, all my citizens don't even have a connected water line. It is amazing that in the City of Zagreb, not only in the City of Zagreb but in the good part of Croatia 10 thousand and 100 thousand of our citizens do not even have a connected water line or water, and I do not know what we are even talking about if we have failed to secure it as a city or as a state to our citizens. But that's why we managed to secure certain private interests a huge amount of water treatment fees that have been paid for years and years and hundreds of millions of euros in our fellow citizens' money has gone who knows where and who knows what a non-transparent way. What I think should also be done to Croatian citizens, not only to pay for the water they spend, but also to pay for the water that leaks, and the leaks very much water. I know that the City of Zagreb spent more than 10 years ago even issuing bonds to restore the water network, of course, that money, as well as most of the cases in the City of Zagreb, on quite a few years ago, and not on what it was meant to be, because the idea of the bonds was to return to the water system to pay off the bonds, but the Mayor Bandic spent that money on not only the purpose for which it was to be spent and to pay too much water to be lost, which is spent and which should not be spent at the end, and there should be some examples that we have in some of our cities that have invested in the network, the European funds were very often included in this, for example in Istria or in Sisak, so that we can use EU funds to improve the water supply network in order to reduce the costs of citizens in water losses. Now if we were to be sufficiently nationally aware or work in the interests of our entrepreneurs, then watch how those who produce pipes in the Republic of Croatia, who are competitive and who can place their product in such projects, to enable them, and not to prevent it from being forced, as it has been for some time in the Republic of Croatia for years, unfortunately, that is what is done today, import lobbys that import pipes, which import raw materials and thus earn profits that then go partially outside of the Republic of Croatia, and go partly to those for whom, I would say, where they should not go or burden our citizens with cost much more than what they should. One more thing that needs to be pointed out is the problem of water supply in Dalmatia, some of the colleagues talked about it, but I think it's a shame that we have water pipelines thousands of years old still in operation in the city of Split and when it rains, people usually notice that water is cloudy and have water quality problems. So, we're talking about tourism, we're talking about hundreds of thousands or millions of people coming to the Republic of Croatia, and we don't have the basic infrastructure solved, not just for them, but for our fellow citizens. So, Dalmatia is here, unfortunately, in a catastrophic state, I personally know it from my own experience because I am looking at it within my family. So, we don't have a part of the year to deliver drinking water to the tankers is not good quality to drink, so I don't know what we're talking about here? So, we're talking about the Water Services Act, and we didn't provide our citizens in one large part of the Republic of Croatia with quality service and quality water, we didn't ensure that they had the price, if it's not possible to be free, then to be as low as possible because there are often fees paid, for example for drains, for these drains that are famous, they're always blocked when the floods come, they're never maintained in the right way, and people are paying for years of compensation for these things, and we haven't provided people with quality infrastructure in order to have quality delivery all year. So we're not far away, we're talking about some basic settings, and what we're supposed to do, for years we're not doing, and I'm calling here the Ministry to finally start solving problems in Dalmatia, that we don't have a situation like I just said that as soon as it rains more seriously, we have situations in Dalmatia that water is not good for drink and that people don't have a fixed basic prerequisite, when we talk about tourism, I care much less about the tourists themselves now, than about our people who deserve to get rid of these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135942	I thank my colleague Maras. Dear colleague Josip Djakic is not present. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135943	Thank you very much, President-in-Office and esteemed secretary, we're talking about a very important law, and we're talking about... I said that what my colleague used to say and colleague Maras and vice president would look back on Bonton, I believe that one of the best ministers of Maras when he gives you credit for the most successful of the '90s, then it's really amazing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just like a colleague who also praises me from her club when they praise me, then I'll leave myself to politics, so I don't have any problem with that. I entered this law, this law is very important, the Water Act is very important, these three laws that are united, I would just say that the goal and interest that we protect the water first of all because the Splitian swimming pool on several occasions comes annually to the fact that there is no proper water in the water supply because it is clouded Jadro, with us not guarding the mostly karst part, means, the Dalmatian Burn where we simply have the floods of rivers that are connected with Zrmanja and Krk and Cetina, with all the rivers and tributaries that are clean and clear and you in the ministry are pushing the Centre for Waste Management of Lečevica where we know that this is a karst area, that it is connected to the meaning of the sinks, and Cetina, and all the sources that mean... The water, and if Jadro had been clouded on some occasions already, even if they had no water supply for even a week and no longer, the entire area of Split, which is more than 300 thousand people, essentially bought this bottled, uh, bottled water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first problem. Another basic problem when we talk about water is why, we basically gave as a state so cheaply, for example the source of Cetina, it seems to me that she was a colleague, I would have to remember, for 37 seconds there was a debate, we gave cheaply to draw water and sell, and that's our, our very important, this is our potential and resource, in 37 seconds five, six thousand kunas of mystic source Cetina have the right concession over water, these are very important issues. As far as the service areas are going to be determined, the basic condition is that there is no VAT, that's what I said, my colleague Lovrinović said afterwards, and I said it in the opening statement, which I said in the replica of the minister, that the VAT on the water is what we're trying to take down. We have areas in Croatia, here's Donja Lomnica, you're doing a asphalt base, the Ministry of Environment instead of protecting the source that powers Turopolje, there's that part, New Zagreb, you're doing this asphalt base, and two feet away the pool from where the whole area of New Zagreb and Turopolje is powered, and of course we just have to end it, no matter what people protest there, it's just impossible. So you went... The thermal power plant directly from your government, on the river Cetina, on the Peru lake, on the most drinking pool of clean water, on the largest pool, I mean this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We simply don't protect these resources, it's an important thing, for our entrepreneurs and households, water must be cheaper, and what I told my colleague here is that in mountainous and mountainous areas it's much more expensive to produce water because we have to have pumping stations that are above a thousand meters of water, they have to pump water to get to certain villages, to a small number of households that have water, which have a rush to have water because in us, it means it's expensive, and so I said that microsolars would solve a part of these gas stations that have to pump and consume huge energy. So we have to do everything, not just these delivery guys... I'm saying that we're all... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] cheaper water, but we need to bring it in that, that that potential of ours that we're using, and of course a colleague will get angry, but well, she knows better, I'm sorry she's gone, she'd love to be here, so I won't mention it, but there's gonna be time to talk about a lot of other things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the delivery of services, companies, Articles 23 and 24 is defined as defined and I believe that this resource of our water we have must be preserved above all. I'll tell you one example, I repeated it on several occasions, at the Joy of Sinj, not at the Joy of Kaštelanski, the man made a mini cheese for goat cheese, couldn't get a useful permit to open that mini cheese, he had everything, meaning, a closed financial structure, for what?, that this cheese would endanger the Adriatic, and we have Lečevica, I repeat the Center for Waste Management Lečevica is in the heart of Dalmatia Zagora, in the heart, and that is, I think, the pool of drinking water is there, I think what we are talking about, there is connected, I would, as the Ministry of Environment, you have to protect that water, and not that we must actually protect the water, protect the environment from the Ministry of Environment. And so we have in Zadar this same case code, i.e. in Obrovec, the case di also do citizens protest what is also done by the factory for the processing of hazardous waste along the Zrmanja River, in a naturally preserved area where the waters are also rich. Personally, I think it's good what these go in two readings and in these all we've said for a reason, but I think the most important thing is that cheap water, protect that water, preserve that water, that resource, because again, one of the biggest problems of the Split swimming pool will be in the future to solve the drinking water problem. That's how it's going to be in Zagreb. It's not a distant future, it's visible now. What's with the contaminants? What's all the fuss about? What's this all about? Probably what people are, the human factor is very important. So let's preserve the water, preserve our rivers, tributaries, that's what I think is most important to the future. Mostly in these areas that are rich in water, and we treat water as if it were, I think. The fact that if we compare in the store is a liter of oil at the height, a liter of gasoline or oil, is at the height of a liter of water. Why don't we do it better? I don't know. Which is why the source of the river Cetina is a day for 5 thousand kunas a mystic concession that, irrelevantly foreign company, uses, that water uses and sells. Why isn't it more expensive, more money? Which is why we don't charge for it anymore. It's now a question of all the questions. We have to use this water for development, anyway why wouldn't that water be, why don't we have the irrigation of the Sinj field, here's the question, that every year there's a drought in the Sinj field, and there's a river of Cetina passing through the Sinj field, I don't see that explanation, and that's now in the 21st century. And of course in the tourist season, is it all drying up, and of course we're importing cheap pomilares of questionable quality did the country see it at all and who knows how it grew. Therefore, I believe that water is important and that more investment needs to be invested in water conservation, that water should be available to everyone, that water should be allowed not to be excluded just like that and that everyone has the right to water. It's ours, it's a people's property and any pollution regarding mainly rich areas like the Dalmatian Zagora, which should be a special law of the whole Christian area, should be a special law. We need to pass a special law. And one more time. Cut the VATs. I can suggest it through amendments and additions to the law, but I am aware that it will not go away because the Tax Act is not this Government, your Government has not accepted that amendment. That's the first thing you have to do. So on the supply of water, the services need to be abolished by VAT, which is a minimum of what the people expect. Here, I would finally ask the respected ministry to protect our Dalmatian Zagora and all the areas where clean water is from waste management centres and to preserve that resource and that you protect water, and not that people have to protect it from the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135944	I thank my colleague Bull. Final word on behalf of the proposer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Mario Šiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians, we thank everyone for a constructive debate. We are particularly grateful because the debate shows that the necessity of this reform is unanimously recognised. We'll consider all the remarks between the two readings. Those who have a full professional basis and accept. In short, I would only eventually refer to a few specific issues raised during today’s debate. In order not to be sufficiently clear, all the principles and general provisions laid down in the applicable Water Act have been taken over by the provisions of the Water Services Act, which are also activities of general interest, public service, non-discriminatory and socially affordable conditions, etc. Nothing's left out. A lot of talk has been made about the hard criterion of 2 million cc's of water delivered for the establishment of the service area. Once again, I ask you to... the fact that 4/5 waters in the Republic of Croatia delivers 28 water service suppliers with at least 2 million cubic cc's of delivered water. With this law, we address to the greatest extent the problems created in 1/5 water deliveries and in areas where water supply or water service is not available. However, this is not the only criterion. There is also a technical and economic criterion and unity of systems that are in the service area that integrate all systems and public water supplies and public discharges and all agglomerations, system boundaries and agglomerations cannot be cut. The criteria of affordability of a maximum of 3% of the net income available are not entered into the Law because it is planned size. But please understand that without this criterion, no EU project can be approved. The independent survival of a supplier who does not achieve this is not an acceptable option. Prescribing additional criteria such as success in reducing the loss of water quality in the withdrawal of EU funds in a geographical situation, etc. It would lead to selective integration. Very good would unite with very good, and good with good, and the other bad suppliers would be like unwanted children. In particular, we guarantee that the Service Areas Regulation, which has been mentioned today, will not be adopted non-transparently on the borders in the service areas. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. In that public hearing, consultation participants will have the opportunity to comment independently on their proposals for service areas, integration of water service providers which must be based on the criteria set out in Article 7. Proposal for a law on water services. Therefore, parliamentary representatives, respected parliamentary representatives of this Law, and that is, the law package does not only offer reform for the sake of reform. This package of laws is a reaction of the government and the professions to the challenges brought by the implementation of EU dictated projects and the period after the implementation of these projects, as well as identified problems that are chronically plagued by the water services sector in Croatia. We are aware that the current organisational framework of fragmented water service suppliers has exhausted its capabilities and reached its limits. On behalf of ensuring the availability of water services to all citizens and business users of the social affordability of future water prices, the financial self-sustainability of water service providers and our future on the sustainable use of water recognise the values this law package offers and support it in your first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135946	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We have replicas. Dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135947	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Only four things related to the ministry and the proposal for a water law. Article 9 paragraph 2 is quite restrictively determined by the size of the water supply from 400 to 450 square metres of springs, the illustration is 21 x 21 meters. So there should be a little flexibility. Secondly, Article 33, who is the manager of the battery. So you miss that precise definition. Article 98 is unclear which conditions must be met in order to obtain the status of a public vessel. So, that. And in Article 161 you say that water law is not always possible to publish on the basis of an idea project. It is possible to base an idea solution on the basis of a location permit. It may be necessary to put in place documentation for the provision of water law conditions, not to provide an idea solution to the location permit, but only documentation to comply with the horizontal conditions. That's for first reading. Until the second reading, it can be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135948	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135949	Dear Secretary, you've specified a 2 million cubic cc's of water as it may be, right? He doesn't have to. Which means that this law does not specify exactly what the service areas are or what they are listed. I'm interested in what way you're going to bring you because a single criterion, so it can't be, I mean we're in the 21st century, just that criterion of 2 million cc's of water, 'who says that 70 or 90% of that water doesn't go to the ground because of the bad pipes, which means you're going to evaluate the size of the area, and what it's going to be, really me, here I am personally interested in what areas it's going to apply to, and who's going to make the decision, you Ministry of the Regulation or the Minister, or the Government of the Regulation or the Minister of the Law as it normally does, is being discussed later by the law when it's passed, it would be good to say in this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135950	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. I would like to conclude the debate, thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Mari Šiljeg, Assistant Minister Elizabeth Kos, and Vice-President of the Water Services Council Mr. Vladimir Simic, representatives of the motion. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear fellow Bully, this is what we've exhausted all the agenda points for today. Tomorrow we continue work at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, first reading, P.Z. Number 610. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted in 20.41 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-03-0.u135951	Proposal for a Water Services Act, first reading, P.Z. No. In 608, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Water Services Act and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 for, 17 abstentions and 5 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before we start on the agenda, just a notice. So we'll start tomorrow morning at 9:30 with an amendment statement, we'll do it until we get through all the amendments. If there is no time left, we will start with the agenda point before the vote and the vote is at 12 o'clock as every Friday and then after the vote continues with the agenda. That's one information and other information is that next week we'll be working on Tuesday, so Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. Please register it then. We will now move to the agenda but before that, please welcome the students and students of the Tituš Brezovsky High School from Zagreb together, welcome. - Proposal for a Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, first reading, P.Z. No. 610 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. [[Applause.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved. Minister, here you go.
