ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164077	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. Today is the first item: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1907/2006, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 685 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164078	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Vice-President, the honourable parliamentary representatives at EU level in 2017 adopted Commission Regulation 2017/542 of 22 March 2017 amending Regulation No 1272 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures by adding contributions to harmonised information relating to emergency health interventions to be applied from 1 January 2020. In order to comply with Commission Regulation 2017/542, this legislative proposal lays down obligations relating to harmonised information relating to emergency health interventions and preventive measures for importers and further users who place mixtures on the market as dangerous on the basis of their effects on human health or physical effects. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164079	We have two replicas. Representative Glasnovic reported for the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164080	Dear colleagues, our guests I didn't understand a single thing you said here, if it is today this kind of enquiries about the ecology of decomposed packaging material etc. I didn't understand anything. But from my experience, I'd say that this very mechanism to control our environmental system isn't exactly in the best place. Close to the cities you have as if we are in Calcutta somewhere or in the third world this waste etc., it is not solved. And what is the purpose of these EU regulations if it is not implemented on the ground?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164081	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164082	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if you didn't understand this, but these amendments to the regulation in order to make it more transparent, so that importers have to report dangerous mixtures or chemicals with high breaking provisions if they don't do so when putting things on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164083	A second replica was reported by Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164084	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear secretary of chemicals entering the Republic of Croatia can you tell me, and we're witnessing that they're coming in, here I'm going to talk about a glyphosate that enters directly or indirectly. Of course, the treated glyphosate comes, we're talking about the substances used in the Republic, Austria has banned this chemical compound. This pesticide used on surfaces, agricultural areas and, of course, contaminated mixtures that come or like. through agricultural, agricultural imports of these food products, through meat and even through soy. That's familiar. So what you have taken on the subject of even the EU has brought certain restrictions and time, when will you announce to the public how many dangerous substances are reported, dangerous agricultural products where glyphosate is the main problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164085	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164086	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. So the gliophosphate as well as the herbicides and pesticides following these changes must be reported so that the competent HZJZ will otherwise be meant to say again high criminal penalties for importers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164087	Agent Kirin reported for the third line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164088	Dear Vice-President, respectable state secretary, new rules at global level, so a globally harmonised system that is UN level, the EU has installed in the regulation on classification, labelling and packaging of CLP systems. The goal is to facilitate global trade and help consumers. Is it good and how far around the world and domestic manipulations can bypass the law and when it is discovered whether sanctions are appropriate to the severity of the infringements from toxic substances and mixtures to banana apples, biocides and pesticides.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164089	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164090	Dear Parliamentarian. We believe that due fines have achieved the purpose that it will not be profitable for importers not to report and expose ourselves to these penalties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164091	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first club to report for participation in the debate is the Most Representatives' Club on their behalf will be represented by Representative Miro Bulj. I just want to warn the MPs that we have some technical difficulties so they'll be notified before the time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164092	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear secretaries with their co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. This is a very important regulation that will be applied by Croatian legislation, but I personally do not believe that the implementation will have any effect. Have you not told us here who will implement it and how you will control it, which are the bodies and whether you have identified the bodies that will control it or if they are existing then there is nothing of it. It is a fact that dangerous chemicals of herbicides, pesticides already banned in certain EU countries, where the European Commission, in particular, has been fighting for many years. And we need to know that multinational companies like Monsanto who produce those 70s and early '80s, I mentioned glyphosate that is very dangerous to human lives, so in America we have a number of disputes. This is if you are more familiar with the people if they listen, it is an example in the cidocor is this substance that is very dangerous and that causes the most severe diseases, and it is exclusively related to GMO food production, but you know that Monsanto is. Therefore, they are interested and have already taken up most of the seeds in the world market as well as in Croatian what they place around the world and so on in Croatia. That is why I asked for the law on the ban on GMOs solely because of these substances, and also a few days ago I referred to what Austria had already done and where other EU members are preparing, a ban on glyphosate that is very dangerous. We need to know that imports that soybeans are mostly soybeans from North America. Brazil is in large quantities in the EU, which feeds for example. cattle and it comes to our market if we need to know that we are currently the largest importers of pork, we know that that pork is quite cheap, which is imported. Who controls it, who controls contaminated pork from contaminated soybeans infected with this most dangerous herbicide? We simply do not take any measures to protect the health of our people. We see that we have an increase in the number of tumors and other diseases, that we have more and more allergies mainly in the younger population, and that's only because we're not using, which is what our fields are in the weeds. We have 700 thousand hectares of land of agricultural land that is unprocessed, and we import basically food that has been poisoned with this, again I repeat mainly glyphosate and other Herbicides that are dangerous substances. And we're going to accept this regulation here, of course, which is probably good, but of course we have to control it. But what are our instruments? Is that there were instruments to protect people and health then there would be no meat contaminated by dangerous substances on shelves in multinational companies, and as a result not only this part of the health issue that is most important but you have destroyed domestic production with these contaminated food products. We have become the largest importers of food products, especially when we talk about imports of meat contaminated with these substances which Monsanto and other one or two multinational companies do know that Bayer is now that they are fusing and thus controlling and seed, and of course also herbicides, pesticides, and mainly this compound that is very, very dangerous. I'm just saying that in America, the man who kept the school environment under his protection when the grass went down, did you see what's left behind, just the land, no grass, no weeds, no scavengers, no scavengers. And if we don't ban it from being used in agriculture, but on our surfaces it's used and uncontrollable, but it's a bigger problem, but we still have preserved that agricultural land but it's abandoned, targeted abandoned. Unfortunately, I would once again warn that we must protect these import products, we must protect ourselves, and obviously the goal was to empty our Slavonia, Zagora, Gorski Kotar, all these agricultural areas and OPGs, the domestic economies, leave our country, which is relatively still empty. And from next year we need to know that foreigners in Croatia can, foreign legal individuals buy agricultural land. This is all narrowly consequent, I know that I went a little wide because we simply cannot discuss this problem differently, first of all, which is the impact on the health of the population of the Republic of Croatia and the health system, and we are importing their cheap goods. They have destroyed our farmer, see that the increase in tumors, even the Croatian Institute of Public Health has been regularly and not informing the number of carcinogenic diseases, tumors in the increase, and we have witnessed that the Ministry of Health should protect our people, but it does not work. We can prescribe all regulations by colleagues and colleagues, we can EU directives if we do not have implementing bodies, if the vermin within the ministries that favour import lobbys by importing harmful food, food products, is Croatia the largest increase in imports. In 2018 alone, the production of dairy products was reduced by 10.5% and from the OPG domestic by 17% compared to 2017. So we have a problem that vermin are within the ministries of institutions that should protect the health of our citizens and not allow imports especially from Monsant and these multinational companies. And that's why I'm opening these questions about the ban on GMOs where we won't agree, but I'm opening those questions to discuss the health of our people. We import dangerous food products, I repeat, which are treated with glyphosate which Austria has already banned, not so far from us, very dangerous. So you can only see when you use a cidocora to pour weed and that is why we need to stress the importance of domestic production, domestic food products, is that what we are getting through imports is disease, death, allergies, mainly for our children and older ones. And it costs our health system, destroys our agriculture, and it's the only and empty of course, the demographic image is what it is that we let because of the non-implementation of the law we let import lobbys do whatever they want, for Judas's sheaths that they gave inside the ministry we have on the shelves of multinational companies or these companies or centres, we have the most foreign products that are certainly not the quality they give to their citizens. And it's a crucial battle, a key battle is food, water and air, and we have to protect both water and food, produce from these imported food products, mainly that are protected not only in packaging but in meat that we buy on shelves for very cheap. That might work well for the citizens, maybe it was nice when the centers showed up then from New Zealand came to you a kilo of lamb, frozen, packed ten kunas. Of course that comes, people are not able to buy more money until for a quality lamb, for the lamb of our village, my Zagora, Pag or I don't know where it was invaluable and our farmers weren't competitive. And believe me, it's a big cause and it's recognized by the leaders of all EU countries is the danger of dangerous substances of herbicide and pesticides, especially glyphosate and Monsant chemistry, I repeat, which control and seed. We don't even have a seed bank, Croatia doesn't have a seed bank and they made us dependent on their products that are treated this way and that can only be treated with their herbicides and we need to talk about it. I didn't say or warn that some of them were talking about GMO engineering, howling or vaccination of fruit, I'm not talking about it, I'm talking about chemistry, about chemistry that affects our children's health. I'm curious, you're the Ministry of Health, how much our children's allergies have increased compared to 30 years ago because we're not in control, we're not interested. We can pass this law if we have a secretary or minister, it would be good for the minister to come to the Parliament here sometimes this is his same ministry to tell us how much these increases in certain diseases are which are mainly the food products that we don't control. Here, in the end, you would once again say everything in the interest and what is positive, and we shouldn't have so much EU regulations but should be interested in the Ministry of Health to protect against dangerous substances and the mixture of our citizens because it costs our Ministry of Health, the impact of these dangerous substances on the health of these dangerous substances, I will mention it to the glyphosate, mainly he and other chemical agents, but glyphosate notes that because it is closely related to the GMOs and Monsanto, it is closely tied and their interest and very well manages to take full production of seeds, to make peoples dependent, especially our people, if we don't have a bank, I don't know whether and of course we are forced to import their cheap, polluted food, food. This too needs to be seriously respected secretaries spoken because the cost of the Ministry of Health is enormous because of what they have sold for Judah's sheaths and do not do their job as they do, because those who did not protect through ministries or agriculture or all ministries have not protected domestic production with which Croatia should be a brand. 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land are currently under the weeds in Croatia, unprocessed, clean. It is our resource, it is our potential and Croatia should therefore be recognizable mainly because we live on tourism, it should be our additional value, not that Monsanto and other companies have more profits than tourism in the Republic of Croatia because we import these contaminated food products that affect human health. Instead of encouraging the domestic lamb, the Pag cheese is essentially the other way around, we're importing Pag cheese from Italy that didn't see Pag passed the boat when they introduced past Pag, at which point he saw cheese. We do not protect domestic production, because of this we have huge costs of the Ministry of Health, we have a democratic breakdown because we have not encouraged our people to stay in the area and we, we are obviously much easier to pay the Ministry of Health to have higher costs for diseases and allergies, tumors, the most severe diseases due to glyphosate and other herbicides and pesticides that produce exclusively to create the addiction of everyone and that is essentially this fracture. So all that's good, dear secretary, here's a few questions I'm saying about how high the tumor is, how much we're importing uncontrollable foods that are fed for example. Soy buckshot. We know that over a billion euros we import pork that is cheap on shelves, Croatian pork is gone, there is no Dalmatian prosciutto, the only thing that drys in us is no domestic production. That's what you've done with inaction. And until we look the truth into our eyes, we'll have even more empty villages, it can't be a rich country, it's not Miro Bulj invented either of us, there's no rich country that doesn't use its resources and that's a village. The village is the one that should be the head of the village, the head of the village. The village is the one that produces both the food product and feeds the city. We have two thirds because of this policy that we have implemented by guessing both Monsanto and other companies, we have two thirds of Croatia empty, unprocessed. And what's been processed is leaving. And of course 1.1, all of this is consequently, this whole cycle has been planned since 1.1, as of next year, foreign legal and natural persons can buy agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia until Croatian legal and physical persons can buy agricultural land in Hungary. Is that equality in the EU? Is that protecting the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? It is of interest to us not only to pass regulations, if we only bring regulations for the sake of the regulation that Andrej Plenkovic would boast in the EU that we have applied their legislation, if we do not protect health, if we do not raise awareness of the importance, the production of domestic food and the dangers of chemistry, i.e. Herbicide and pesticides such as glyphosate, which is the most connected exclusively to Monsanto with the production of GMO products, then we have no survival elements in this area, and we have no conditions which nature and God has given us. We do not have the power to protect our own, to create a new profit, to repair the demographic image rather than to burn it all on import lobbies that are pests that are for Judah’s pungers, essentially pests that were actually meant to work in the interest of the people. As a result, I expect the Secretary-General to answer these questions as to the extent of the damage to herbicides and pesticides, mainly glyphosate to the health of the population of the Republic of Croatia because there are fewer domestic products and more and more GMO products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164093	The HDZ Representatives' Club reported for further participation in the debate, MP Vlatko Kopic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164094	Dear Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 19/07 from 2006. The basic law was nominated in 2013 and 2018 in order to further bring Croatian legislation into line with the legal acquis of the EU as well as to enable the implementation of the reform measure in the national reform programme for 2018 as well as to unite economic inspections within the framework of the State Inspectorate. Regulation (EU) 2017/542 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 March 2017 amending Regulation (EC) No 1222/2008 has been adopted at EU level in 2017. The European Parliament and the Council on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures by adding a contribution to harmonised information related to emergency health interventions to be applied from 1 January 2020. On the basis of the obligations laid down in the Regulation, the Republic of Croatia has notified the European Commission of the Croatian Institute of Public Health as a designated body within the meaning of that provision of the Regulation. This proposal will set out the Croatian Institute of Public Health as the designated implementing body in the Republic of Croatia under which importers and further users who place mixtures on the EU market will provide information as prescribed by the Commission Regulation. That's it. information on mixtures will be provided by electronic means in Croatian or English, provided to the institution via the central portal of the European Chemicals Agency, a well-known PCN portal. Such received information on mixtures of the Croatian Institute of Public Health without delay shall make available to the Centre for the Control of Toxicity of the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine. HZZ and the Center for the Control of Mix Information can only be used to formulate preventive and curative measures in relation to medical examinations, especially in emergency cases, and to carry out statistical analyses in order to identify the need to improve risk management measures. Furthermore, this legislative proposal will establish obligations for importers and further users who place in mixtures on the Croatian market. Similarly, this legislative proposal will allow easier transmission of information on the composition of the mixture and support for statistical analysis of chemical poisoning cases, all for the purpose of protecting public health. Finally, I would like to stress that no additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is necessary for the implementation of this law. Therefore, from this point of view, the HDZ Representatives Club will support that draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164095	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164096	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, I said everything, just here, after the presentation when we have the possibility of individual debate, I see there's no big interest, which is not good because we need to talk about these things. They're important to the health of our citizens. We see that the growing disease of our citizens, particularly of dangerous diseases, is certainly the influence of chemicals that are imported, pesticides, herbicides and everything else, mainly said Monsant's glisofate and similar phenomena that other countries have already begun to ban, I have cited the example of Austria that banned this product that is directly linked to GMO seed production. I'd just, so a multinational company like Monsanto, that's what I said, I'd just say it's not just a problem of packed products, chemicals that enter and substances. The problem is what we eat. Who's controlling it? Who controls pork as much as soybeans that treats it with glisofate, who controls it on the shelves? Who, I'm curious about who's in control and whether it's even controlled and what the cause of that meat is, so what we're importing, I'm just talking about the meat that's on the shelves, I'm asking the secretary, how much is the increase in various diseases. This is easy to compare because the fact that Croatia is much more Croatian agricultural land has been treated much more than it is now. There are clear questions. I gave the law the same as Austria brought to encourage the ban on glyphosate because it is a substance that is very dangerous. When Austria could, there was a lot of talk in the EU about this substance, i.e. about the one used in pesticides and, of course, we need to talk about it openly. And I would like them to organize round tables and the waist to say their views and those who are in favor and those who are against them. However, in us it is a taboo topic because the import lobby is suitable for importing that pork and being on the shelves of the trade chains much cheaper than our domestic producer can produce an example, I said pork, and we, you can see that our imports are growing. And I mentioned that we have huge land areas that are unprocessed, 700 thousand acres. I repeat once again that it is very important to protect our citizens. In this regulation, however, Croatia has adopted a lot, this Assembly is full of directives, regulations that have been prescribed, but in the implementation of zero, implementation of zero. So this, the biggest problem that will be in implementation to protect the health of all of us, especially our children, is that they don't eat apples treated with glyphosate and similar chemicals where the possibility of multiple diseases, allergies that happen, means we have to protect health, we need to promote that domestic sales that were controlled 100%, but in the end it wasn't done, it wasn't just because those who were obliged to do it, the competent authorities, the institutions didn't do their job. So there are no damages in Croatia, nor weeds, nor troscots, nor anything but vermin that are within the ministries and did not do their job but favoured import lobbys. I asked you secretary, do you have any indicators in recent years, 10th, 20th in the increase of certain diseases, allergies, which are caused by just chemicals and these substances like glyphosate which, I repeat, is banned already in Austria. So their parliament has passed the ban, so we are not talking about a country in South Africa or South America, but in a country that is an EU member, which is not far from us. Therefore, we need to seriously talk, I am saying this as a man and a parliamentary representative because it is my obligation to open these issues because the increase in serious diseases in the Republic of Croatia paid by the Ministry of Health, i.e. Our citizens. We must protect our health first of all, the second of what God has given us, domestic production. We have to do this and we have to ban all substances that affect health. I think dr. Kirin, I see that he is that... I see that on several occasions he approved certain guidelines that I sent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I expect you, secretary, to answer these important questions, questions raised by our citizens, which is that with food products imported, but treated with these mixtures and substances through herbicides, pesticides, which other members have already banned, and the EU, which makes Monsanto, to be precise. I wonder what the effects are, in fact, increases in the last 20, 30 years, whether you have anything to do with increasing certain diseases and whether you know the causes of increasing these diseases, whether or not one of these diets in the area of the Republic, food products that are from imports and which have no quality to be and which are treated with substances that should not be treated and should not be on our shelves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164097	Agent Kirin called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164098	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Your Honor, I understand from your exposure that you are against GMOs, against pesticides because they have cumulative action and they are harmful and they are carcinogenic but I understand that you are more anti-pesticides than against GMOs, what you said. Seeds of the terminator, producing sterile fruits, to force farmers to always buy seeds for the next seed. What do you think, in the fight against the global flood of GMOs, could the cultivation of domestic seed help?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164099	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164100	As for the treatment of chemicals, I simply follow what is happening in the European Parliament that there has been a conflict of lobbyists who are for glyphosate which is very dangerous, you know that and those who are opponents. And I want that debate to be opened, and I'm personally against, from everything I've read and judgments that have been made mainly in the United States on damages that have been severely affected by these chemical compounds. As far as GMOs are concerned, it is closely connected, Monsanto is closely connected to each other, GMOs and herbicides and pesticides, production and they want to dominate the absolute and in terms of seeds and herbicides. As far as domestic production is concerned, I believe that Croatia can have a seed bank and no regulation if Croatia has signed it must not prohibit Croatia from having its own seed bank that our people can mean to improve with normal procedures and not create any dependence on Monsant, their herbicides, their pesticides that have a bad impact on the health of our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164101	Thank you. Representative Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164102	Thank you very much. In your debate, you highlighted concern with the quality of meat, which is unfortunately imported in Croatia today, and I am interested in how you think this regulation will reflect in this area. So will our citizens have greater security regarding the quality of meat that is now at the highest possible levels? So every year more and more meat is imported from Croatia and minimally produced or almost the same. So now we already have about 25, 26 thousand tons of meat imported into Croatia annually which is almost double what we produce in the Republic of Croatia. So do you think this will increase the quality and protection of our consumers?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164103	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164104	Unfortunately, all these regulations we make have their own shifts, but this will improve something because I see that the secretary does not give answers to key questions, mainly on the issue of importing food products. I mentioned the example of pork that we literally import every year in billions of kunas, in billions of euros, it's gone, which is exclusively fed on treated food, cattle treated with glyphosate and it's proven, it's proven. So we have dangerous food for the health of people and residents. And I once said and stand behind the fact that the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government and the competent authorities, if they do not take measures, the Croatian Parliament is acting legislatively and has no power but the competent authorities do not take measures to protect against these dangerous substances, chemical compounds, herbicides, pesticides. So our kids are test rabbits. And so I'm wondering if you have any results of the impact of the disease, the increase and which are... They increase because you believe that 100% is the reason for the diet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164105	Representative Bulj, time's up. Representative Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164106	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bull, of course we're all dissatisfied with pesticides, but there's no other solution. We're an open country, I would suggest that the law and apples and meat and all the legal decrees that six months should not be older. Would the world survive today if it wasn't for that? Would our apples be the same in the Bosnians and around if they weren't treated as born as they are today. Therefore, I think it is necessary for experts to determine what will be but the imports to Croatia should be the oldest 6 months. We're an open country, we can't ban imports of the others, but we could prescribe by law that meat is 6 months old, apples or vegetables can't be older. That's what we can defend ourselves and our products sell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164107	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164108	Dear Mišić, thank you very much for the constructive question and constructive discussion that raises a number of questions, of course, and your question is whether it would be possible to eat at all if it weren't for products treated with dangerous substances. However, the one I mention as glyphosate is a cidocor, if you know when the field has no cost, but Austria has banned because it has huge consequences, resulting from the enormous consequences of human health. So increasing the disease and our health system cost it, of course, every treatment costs an allergy. Therefore, we must find a measure there but Croatia must have its meaning, its seed bank and not be dependent on Monsanto. Believe me, Monsanto started losing disputes in the U.S. in millions, tens of millions of dollars. You can check that out. And of course we need an expert debate, but we can't run from this issue. If Austria defends I don't see any reason why we would import contaminated dangerous poison products.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164109	Thank you, Representative Bulj. A representative of Maras also called for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll talk very briefly about this subject, but I think it's important to say a few things. Of course, this law should be supported because it is a regulation defined in the EU area, and we also confirm the decision of the European Parliament, the European Council, which will certainly contribute to the greater safety of our consumers and quality in a way that is unfortunately not at the level at which it is in some other EU countries. Croatia has been exposed in the last few years to particularly increased imports of meat and meat processing, and at this time twice as much imports of meat and meat processing as we produce in the Republic of Croatia. What's paradox is that it's mostly about imports from neighbouring countries. So when you look at Italy, Croatia is one of the main export markets for poultry processing and it is amazing that in Croatia we have totally managed to lose that type of production and that Croatia imports dominantly, means semi-permanent and permanent meat processing. It means sausages or mortadells or certain other products. This consumption ratio in Croatia is also unfavourable for our citizens. So over 50% of the meat consumed in the Republic of Croatia and imports mostly from neighbouring countries relate to semi-permanent and permanent meat processing and only 19% of what we spend refers to fresh meat and what is essentially better quality for our citizens or for those who spend these products. While the exact opposite situation is unfortunately in other EU countries, the ratio for semi-permanent and permanent meat products to be spent in a smaller percentage somewhere between 30% and 40% and fresh over 40%. All of this tells you that Croatia and Croatian citizens are very exposed to the quality or non-quality of certain products, we are aware of how much this quality deviates from those products sold for example in Germany and Italy. So last year, success was also a great success for the European Parliament, which adopted certain decisions to ensure that the quality of the products must be the same everywhere in the EU. Unfortunately, Croatia was not equal in that part and it will continue for a long time until all this is implemented at a satisfactory level, especially when it comes to meat processing, because unfortunately our fellow citizens are told most often because of the existential problem, i.e. the inability to buy quality products as they do, for example, in some more developed countries, spend lower quality products and spend more on semi-permanent and durable products, which usually have a lower price. So because of all this, we find this regulation very interesting, I am sorry that it has not gained a little greater interest in the debate in the Croatian Parliament because what our citizens eat and what our fellow citizens spend daily should be of great interest to us as representatives and all those who want to make sure that our citizens have a better quality of life. I wouldn't go into these theories now that Mr. Bull is constantly talking about agriculture related to GMOs or certain corporations. At this point, as far as we're concerned, as far as the meat industry itself is concerned, our problem is that we produce a little bit and we import too much. And de facto when you see this production shrinking year after year and, for example, in Slavonia, there is a desolation of livestock production, all possible livestock, wherever, you literally don't have any cows in some villages anymore, that's what the Croatian government should worry about. It is particularly worrying that, from month to year, this government has been boasting for the last 3 years that we have spent and spent large EU funds. Unfortunately, you can't see it anywhere, so you don't see it specifically on production. How can we benefit from EU funds and billions of kunas withdraw from eu funds in agriculture and livestock production, and this production is the same on an annual basis. I mean, there's something wrong. Either that money goes off non-transparently to any needs or is wasted dysfunctionally. Because unfortunately, our agriculture has been understood quite often in recent decades as both a social category and as a way to buy voters, to share money and to ultimately benefit from it is not. I will remember one example where I was caught by a programme that was in 2007 and 2008, where it was done through HBOR to equip certain breeding facilities for cows, means stables, etc., where it was divided, so it seems to me almost a billion kuna, slightly less than a billion kuna, and where it failed to return even 10 percent of that amount. And these loans are in red and these loans are eventually probably now written off and it was the following, that, there was no need to make production that would be cheap and that would allow people who were in the country to deal with agriculture and increase agricultural production. This was followed by those who designed these stables and imported equipment and banks that were in co-operation with the state sharing half the credit or giving high interest rates. In the end, only importers who imported equipment and builders and projectors who designed the facilities benefited. The people in the country, so the farmers had no use for it and the banks that got interest from the loan or possibly certain things that could be paid off, the citizens eventually remained slaves of these loans and now it's slowly being written off and it's probably written off in full so far. But the point is that this whole programme was not used for agriculture but for certain interesting lobbys that were interested in just rejecting the construction part, and that not least no one has anything to do with the consumer and the manufacturer. And it is unfortunately in Croatia constant. When someone here in the Croatian Parliament is able to explain why we invest billions of kunas, and the production is constantly the same and that the only measure of success that we have drawn from these funds has not been the measure of success for whether we have reduced the import of livestock and meat products and processing, and have increased the production of domestic livestock and meat processing. Until someone tries to explain it to me as how it is possible to spend that money without the results showing me that example to change the concept of measuring success in the way we increase production to say that we are good, not when we spend money on dysfunctional things, she will admit that the Ministry of Agriculture is successful. By then, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to import meat and continue to be interested in good control because we are not sure what quality the meat that comes to Croatia is. It is good that meat is controlled, it is good that these costs fall on those who import meat because they end up making extra profits and it must be well controlled, but it is not good that in Croatia we produce meat and meat processing twice as much as we import because there is no need for it. See what makes it cheaper to produce in Germany and Italy than in Croatia. Neither the wages there are less, nor the country there is cheaper, nor the resources working there are cheaper, but apparently more is paid in Germany and Italy to the Italians than our fellow citizens because they do not have the quality support of the government or have no real system created as it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164111	Thank you. Representative Baricevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164112	Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleagues and colleagues. You told your colleague Maras at the beginning of your individual presentation that you would be brief, but you spent the opportunity on the Rules of Procedure to be maximum. But I'm not worried that you were maximum, but this implementation of the European regulation simply didn't say anything about it. You realize that in Croatia the non-stop import of food products is growing, mainly meat, which is definitely a fact, you find it a good old habit, you hold the lecture of the ex department, but I'm interested in having any solution to fix this situation and make it better? And I will say that this long-term erosion was very strong at the time of Minister Jakovina, who has left so much damage to Croatian agriculture that will last and last.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164113	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164114	Thank you very much. My colleague Baričević, here's only a short while since I have a minute. So first I was shorter, sometimes I'm more than ten minutes longer than the Rules of Procedure allows, so I cut it short. Secondly, as far as the solution is concerned, it's impossible for you to explain it in 40 seconds, but I'm going to prepare one material for you to see SDP solutions as far as agriculture is concerned and what we would do if you couldn't get the dead end thing started for three years, or we're going back. And if you've listened well, I've given my support to this regulation, so I've talked about it. But when you're talking about documents, you're still a fresh representative now, so you don't know, you can talk a little bit about the problem it includes and I would recommend it because our citizens are aware that the major problems in the Republic of Croatia and expect us to have representatives talk about these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164115	Thank you. Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164116	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you are right when you say that there is no more important support and assistance from the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture in the development of agriculture and food production in Croatia. This regulation should protect consumers in Croatia from knowing what they eat and also encourage domestic production. Unfortunately, the government and the Ministry of Agriculture were more often protected by import lobbys. And it is not true that production is at the same level, the drop in production is both in milk and in meat and in other food products in Croatia. And more importantly, all those who used eu funds to raise their production levels, farm equipment were blocked and among those 260 thousand blocked in the Republic of Croatia were not credited, and some large companies of the type Agrokora unfortunately did. And what is important is that tax policy does not go in the direction of encouraging domestic production, it is evidence that when I broke the law of Minister Maric that the reduction of VAT on food products will not reduce the departure of our citizens to BiH to buy their products, unfortunately it has proved correct. Neither did the prices, nor did our citizens go shopping outside, and I was right to break the law. Here we go again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164117	Thank you. Please stick to the deadlines and during the show. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164118	Thank you very much. I understand your bitterness and ferocity when it's so vivid you show how you feel about the suggestions that HDZ gives us about agriculture. It's just enough to look and type into an Internet search engine for agriculture and see thousands and thousands of ads, thousands and thousands of articles and programs that have been prepared, but when you type in agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, there are no almost any articles that speak, more is produced in Croatia than was produced in 2018, '17. And '16. That's illogical. How can we withdraw funds from the EU and have no results? The conclusion is that it is not well planned or implemented or ultimately implemented, we have no vision or strategy to produce to make Croatia's agriculture more successful tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164119	Thank you. MP Lovrinovic also reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164120	Thank you, Vice President Petrov. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. I especially welcome you to follow us. Here, today is Friday, I won't count here, but there may be one 5% of the MPs in the House, which is really speaking because there's no vote today, so, therefore, these voting machines are obviously not scheduled to vote today. And so everything we say turns out and we argue that it doesn't matter to them. But, here, Vice President of the Parliament, there is no president, so I'm telling you a question and a request, give it to the President of the Parliament, on average 230 days, I'm waiting for answers to my parliamentary questions, and I'm guessing some other MPs. Why are we blocking ourselves? We're here for the citizens. Why the institutions and addresses we answer to are not responding. Now I'm moving on to the subject of speech, but I'm sorry, you wanted to replicate to me now, which I'm even saying because that's not the point. I have no other way of expressing my position, see, here you are, here you put me in the back bench, I've been talking from the back bench for two years, but I won't give up. Now I'm talking about the subject. No matter what the regulations and the EU directives apply to us? What's it worth to us? Well, we have the laws of domestic good. I've been telling you about food control at our borders, but, dear citizens, I'm telling you first because I know that the political structures that have ruled Croatia for 25 years, they don't listen to us at all. We need your help in the next elections to change Croatia. Stanka Change Croatia believes that product control, primarily food, must be at the border, I remind you that until 10, 15 years ago there were mobile laboratories in small vehicles. It's, they had everything in there, they could do an analysis on the spot. Do you know, dear citizens, that these motor vehicles of mobile laboratories are gone? They've been lifted. Who suspended them, and why aren't they here? Shoppers, buyers, smugglers, so they dominate the food market, especially when it comes to imports. They control almost everything. Wherever we touch, Croatia's key problem is corruption. It's your corrupt chains. It is no wonder that Croatia has the largest number of cancer patients in the last few years on 100 or 1000 people. So why are we surprised? So precisely because imports, forgive the words, the junk of food, that no one knows how old that food is, how all the refrigerators and warehouses were withdrawn, but give it to the Croats and let them eat because they probably have a better stomach than those countries where they are exported. Therefore, you in Germany, Austria, Denmark, can't do bad food there. If anything, it's in a few years, it's an emergency, an incident phenomenon. No, why? Because there are laws there, but there is something more important, to control, monitor and fight for interests, to protect the health of the local population. That's not the case here. It's important to introduce here. It's already known how the controls will go, so nobody knows anymore, there's no food traceability, and that's the problem. If he writes somewhere, it's mostly questionable, or problematic. So corruption breaks up everything in Croatia. The moment we solve corruption, we corrupt because no nation can erase corruption to the end. When we bring it down to one of the lowest levels, which only new people can do, the new government, the new parties. I can't have these, so let's not be mistaken. A growing number of citizens will be sick because of that. So let's stop it, dear citizens. So, we have, like, one kind of, what you'd say, let's use the government's termology, hybrid war in the field of nutrition. So let this fake news that someone's talking about, texting the affair, there, this is a hybrid war. Here we eat every day 2, 3 times at least. We need to know what we're getting into our stomachs. We need to know what we're inoculating, there's no trust in institutions that carry out surveillance, why, because corruption is government. She's a cancer wound. What's further to say here, let's get concrete information now. You know that we from the party change Croatia strongly criticise. But why? Well, because our experts, the committees understand the problem, but here's the information and the solution to the proposal. Now, listen to this. Croatia exports about 450 thousand tonnes of corn and wheat. And that's why he makes about 100 million euros. And our products are really without GMOs and quality. We import in one year of dough, pastries, cakes, dead dough 100 thousand tonnes for 100 million euros. So it's clear to everyone what this is all about. We take out the boards, import the furniture. We export pork, import it means worse pork. And so on and so forth. But, so, more or less, we all know this, I've just listed specific data. Is there an instrument that especially suits the import of bad food? There is, in addition to the controls that I have listed, which are not effective in protecting quality and means health of nutrition, the health of food products, it's a foreign exchange course, gentlemen. The exchange rate in Croatia is 24 years at the same level. He's completely unrealistic. Why is the exchange rate a strong instrument for importing everything and everything, and so is the food that we are mostly discussing today? Well, because with an unreal exchange rate like this, it's always worth importing. But this exchange rate has been systematically destroying from year to year, for 20 years our food producers because they are increasingly less competitive because of such an unreal exchange rate, and on the other hand their production costs are increasing. Go on, go on, go on. High interest rates, the over-indebted debt of our farmers, cattlemen, agricultural producers, they simply prevent competition from being more competitive on this market. In that context, colleague Bulj, I suggest that you and colleague Maras close Parliament for 7 days, just the two of you come over and discuss it with a direct transmission, so don't talk while I do, so respect what this is all about. I listen to you every day, 20% you take up time. I speak once in a few days, you disrupt order and peace here. ... Oh, don't talk, so you do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You've done more to God and the devil's head. [[/Intruder: I ask you MPs, MPs, please for a little patience and peace. Proceed, counselor.]] And Vice President, you're looking at it calmly, aren't you? Let's make an example of soy. You see, Croatia is fortunately producing a quality strain in which there is no GMO, but imports soy, imports soy in what form? Processing or in feed for feeding cattle or in meat processing and other processing where we do not know, and certainly there are GMOs in these products. So wherever we turn, we see that these are problems, and that's why we from the party change Croatia we ask the Government and you State Secretary, to pass it on, under a) which are our proposals, so we're not just criticizing, so strictly controlling food at the border. How's it going? What else is there to do? Always move the inspectors, move from one place to another, but raise their wages, to be as small a target of corruption and these buyers, shoppers. On the other hand, disable the import of fruit and vegetables while ours is fresh and until ours is sold. This can be done specifically, finely, sophisticated environmental standards like Germany's, see how Germany disables apple imports, come on look. Or the export of mandarin, etc., etc. In that sense, I'm just saying, the VAT you cut to food from 25% to 13% not that, he didn't give anything, he didn't cut prices, and he increased the import of bad food because now importers don't have to pay that much VAT right now, but for that difference they can introduce an additional amount of junk from food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164121	Before I give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know on what point, I have to tell you and warn you that it's not nice to insult parliamentary MPs, so if there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure in this direction, then there's no need to talk about someone getting on their heads, using 20% of the time sucks. The duty of Parliamentarians and their business is to conduct a debate here. And be here. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Representative Lovrinović, you did not first raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please take a seat. [[/Intruder: Point 238.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164122	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. He's been injured. 238, Art. 4 You obviously get down on the ears of fellow Lovrinović, but, I didn't say the words, I was leaning and I was getting ready for debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta final [[/Intruder: I warned. Mr. Bulj, there's no need, I've warned the MP.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I know I'm in your way. [[Employer: Representative Bulj, you're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164123	Representative Bulj, I beg you, Representative Bulj. Here is Agent Lovrinović, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please tell me at which point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Art. 238, I'm not going to pollute with a little while ago... I'm not even telling you any, please keep order here. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Never mind, speak to me or anyone, give the MP a chance to speak and nothing else. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164125	Before we continue with the replicas, before we continue with the replicas, since there are two replicas on your exhibit, I just asked you to do the way you want to be treated, so I would suggest that when you have your exposure, you don't spend your first initial minutes on something that isn't the subject of exposure. Representative Maras had a replica of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164126	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović. I'm sorry that you reacted just like this because here, your interesting exposure also interested my colleagues around me from HSS and SDP, and we were just commenting that you have a lot of facts, data and baratates on the topic top-of-the-line, so I'm particularly interested in that, since you got into this problem, in which way you would stop the side of the goods and you said that you would increase the salary to the inspectors and change them from one place to another. So what would be the model of changing the inspector's position and what would be the appropriate salary of an inspector who controls the customs quality of the goods? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164127	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164128	Dear colleague Maras, those solutions, we already had, you see, if you listened better, were mobile motor vehicles, mini labs that are practically, you know, where you control food imported. It doesn't stop, it's measured at the border, I painted it at the border. It is known where customs are located and where it enters Croatia, where it is taken over. In those places, then. On the other hand, there was an army known way of moving means officers. From this town to that town, from this place, to that one. So tax inspectors would have to do all the other similar functions, so that's not the problem, but to do that, these people need to get paid. And customs officers, but in this case it's those people, experts who control, oversee food. So, with 4,5,000 kunas, they certainly didn't... They can't live and they're the target of those who spread corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how to save it, so here I am in the Parliament talking about how I came and we know exactly that solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164129	Representative Glasnovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164130	Dear colleagues, I agree with Mr. Lovrinovic. The issue of corruption, you have a correlation between low wages and thieving, it's a day-to-day thing, if you don't have that mechanism, the control mechanism, there'll be more thieving. Of course, it's a mechanism, there's nothing on the ground... We have perfect laws, strategic levels come to tactical, nothing happens, but at the same time I'd like some experts to come in on food, water, energy, to hear the right things, these from experts, not diletes because we become victims of chemo, that everything is poisoned, so in life never, human history, ever lived better, and most Croats are suffering from PTSD, drinking to drink, to hear these people here, to know what's going on here, and not to play some things here, I won't say that thing, and we'll all become paranoid that everything is poisoned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164131	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164132	I cannot disagree with my colleague Glasnović that corruption is the cancer of Croatia and here, I am pleased that you too, too, are confirming that if there is a corrupt society that we cannot affect normal processes, that is, that we are at risk from all sides, and also with poor food quality. Low wages are certainly one of the reasons for the spread of corruption, but this is not only done in these food health control jobs, you see that low wages to state auditors, judges, so to USKOK, these critical institutions that want to keep themselves on the leash to demotize people who do so. This weakens the most important institutions of society and thus society fails, and that is why we all do so together to finally remove this government from the scene and to come to people who will make our beautiful Croatia a real state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164133	Thank you. The final word in this debate has been reported by the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, on their behalf will be spoken by Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164134	Thank you very much. The theme is very important. The theme is terribly significant. I wish that this topic included later and the secretary of the health ministry to discuss the effects of measures so far on the protection of dangerous substances in the Republic of Croatia, mainly on food products, we have not received answers so far. I believe that we will speak even louder, even more often and even more about this subject. That's why I gave the law on the ban on glyphosate, which is banned already, the only step I've taken, means as a representative, simply, no one else has proposed, and some would be banned from speaking, and certainly are the product and influence, the product and the influence in being these companies. I believe that those who would be banned will also talk and vote on the law on the ban on glyphosate, which is a very dangerous chemical compound controlled by multinational companies that have a huge impact, but here we are talking about the possibility of Croatia that has not exploited, that is 700 thousand hectares of surfaces, unprocessed, agricultural ones that are ecologically preserved. The villages that have been emptied and our O.P.G. because they haven't even been controlled by the laws so far. The HS has adopted several regulations and directives, all regulations that are acceptable, are mostly acceptable, but they are inconclusive because, I repeat, the pests within the competent institutions are greater pests than all weeds found on agricultural land that is abandoned because they are eligible for import lobbys. That's why we have, because of the bad food we import, which is poisoned by chemical compounds, not only in the packaging, but also in the packaging, and not only in the packaging and packaging, but poisoned, but contaminated meat I mention glyphosate several times, a few days ago I put that law in the process. I believe that you will support this law, if it bothers you, I give you the right to do so, do not be the last member of Europe to do so because we have conditions for a different way of producing, growing agricultural production that can reduce the costs and the health ministry and preserve the health of our people, and of course we will also encourage agricultural production. Therefore, do not, as so far, all the regulations, all EU directives that come exclusively end up as a dead letter on paper in reality. I can testify on the matter, here's the production, where I come from, in the Dalmatian Zagora in all fields, from Neretva to Krka. That's the way it is in Slavonia. Well, we don't have irrigation systems, we don't have a drain system. So is it sad that in 2019 we do not have a system of irrigation agricultural areas in the field, for example? Through which the river Cetina flows, pure, clear, we do not have a irrigation system. It means targeted because everything was made not to be produced in Croatia and today we have 700,000 ha of unprocessed land and therefore import lobbys are wrong. We can't let our 1 square meter not be processed. So much injustice has been made towards the Croatian village and peasants that they cannot buy agricultural land in Hungary. So you can't buy agricultural land and next year in Croatia, legal and natural persons will be able to buy agricultural land, as well as in Croatia. Therefore, I have given two laws that lead us to think, it is the law on the ban on GMOs and the ban on glyphosate, a chemical compound that is very dangerous, which was produced in the 1980s, and I believe that together if Austria could, if other EU members could, we will find a solution and strength to protect our people's health not only through packaging, I repeat, not just the control of packaging and the presence of chemical compounds within but pesticides that have already been treated and contaminated food products. We need to know all the soybeans imported from Brazil, brought into the EU are fed to cattle and that meat is on our shelves. We have to do it because of the future of our children otherwise Croatia in this form and demographic form, but it is empty 2/3, it will not exist, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164135	Thank you. With this, I apologize, final word on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Dulibic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164136	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I didn't mean to take your call, but since we're off the subject, we need to react to some things. First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs who have supported the proposal of this law and what we have turned off the subject, I must say that the food imported into the Republic of Croatia is healthy, it is regularly controlled through the State Inspectorate in competent authorised laboratories, if it is found that some food is not healthy, it is withdrawn from the market, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164137	This concludes the debate, it will be voted when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164138	Proposal for a Act amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation No 1271/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on the classification, labelling and labelling of substances and mixtures, amending, supplementing and repealing Directive 67/548/EEC and Directive 1999/45/EC and amending and supplementing Regulation (EC) 1907/2006, first reading, P.Z.R. Number 685. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for that Act amending and supplementing the Law implementing the said Regulation and secondly shall be adopted, any observations and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 80 for, 38 abstentions and 1 against the concluded conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164139	The next item on the agenda is: - Proposal for a State Property Management Strategy for 2019. - 2025. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 18. State property management law. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mario Banozic, Minister of State Property, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164140	Honorable Vice President, Honorable MPs and MPs. The State Property Management Strategy is one of 3 State Property Management documents, the strategy is a sectoral document and an act of strategic planning of national importance which sets out long-term objectives and guidelines for governance of state assets. In the service of achieving economic, infrastructure and other strategic development objectives and protecting national interests with the purpose of preserving property and its importance for the life and work of existing and future generations, the state's assets are therefore managed and made available and used effectively and reasonably by the good master in accordance with the principles of responsibility, public, economics and predictability. Proposal for a State Property Management Strategy for 2019 – 2025 includes amendments to the strategic guidelines in relation to the strategy covering the period 2013-2013. — 2017 are therefore included in the proposal for a State Property Management Strategy for 2019. – In 2025, the redefined missions and visions of the ministry as well as the elements of the strategic framework, development direction, strategic specific objectives, measures of activities and projects related to the performance indicators of results and all in line with the new legal framework. The vision of the Ministry of State Property systematically, shows, optimally and in the long term, holds the management of property owned by the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the principles of responsibility, public, economic and predictability which is in the service of achieving economic, infrastructure and other strategic development objectives and the protection of national interests with the purpose of preserving property and its importance for life and the work of existing and future generations. The Ministry of State Property's vision will contribute to a vision in the developmental directions defined by the future national development of the Republic of Croatia's strategy by 2030. The strategy as a document also includes a chapter that provides a review of the current normative, institutional frameworks, as well as a review of the current framework of strategic planning and the chapters of analysis of the existing state of management of state assets with data for 31. 12. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The strategic goal of respecting generally accepted international practices and the applied concept for each democratically elected government... the full responsibility to show citizens for the account of organised rational public management of the property and its related liabilities, and also with the aim of determining the most productive means of using state assets, therefore the assumption that the preservation of ownership of the Republic of Croatia is also the creation of new added value and the creation of greater economic benefits for the needs of the current and future generations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This strategic plan confirms the general objective that exists in the proposal for a State Property Management Strategy for 2019. – 2025, it is primarily sustainable, economical, transparent management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. The strategic objective of this definition sets out 7 specific objectives. The first is the efficient management of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, the second goal is to continue the privatisation of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and to improve the management of legal persons of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. The third objective is to effectively manage movements that have been permanently seized for the purpose of committing a criminal offence, the fourth goal is to harmonise proposals for new laws, the fifth goal is to manage, standardise, develop, improve the comprehensive internal record of emerging forms of state property managed by the Ministry of Property, the sixth is to prepare, produce, report on the implementation of acts from strategic planning, the seventh objective is to strengthen human potential, information and communication technology and the financial potential of the Ministry of State Property. In this respect, the implementation of the strategic objective of governance of state assets will be to monitor and evaluate through the following indicators. Above all, strengthening the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia's economy is, further, achieving the infrastructure, social and other public objectives of the Republic of Croatia. I would now explain each of these objectives, therefore, for the first purpose of effective management of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, above all, it is considered that they are first-class capital to be available for the purpose of social, cultural, educational progress and preservation for future generations. Real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia is one of the most important economic development resources and should be responsibly used by owners, managers and real estate users, as a unit of local, regional (regional) self-government and other entities entrusted with the right to manage state property by legal provisions. The specific objective of this measure is to effectively manage real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, operationalised through the following measures. The first measure is to reduce the portfolio of real estate managed by the Ministry of State Property and the Centre for Restructure and Sales through Sales, Disposal of Co-owned Communities and Donations in favour of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. The second measure is the growth of investment projects for the activation of unused state assets through the establishment of rights of construction, the rights of service, donation, lease and award of use. And the third measure is put into real estate... State Real estate company d.o.o. which is owned by the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the activation of state property, it is good to remind that the state through the Government Decision has made a decision to... and Sibenik now owns 67% of Batizla, and the Republic of Croatia owns 22%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on government decisions on that being... the assets worth 350 million kuna have shown how willing the Government is to address the issue of state property this way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second specific objective is to continue the privatisation of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia in improving the management of legal persons of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia and to be operationalised through the following measures. An effective reduction in the portfolio of state assets managed by the Ministry of State Property and the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, another measure is to strengthen the efficiency of business and business monitoring of state-owned companies and a third measure is to ensure further development and strengthen the competitive position of legal persons of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia. The fourth measure is to lay down criteria for the definition of legal persons of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. As regards the measure, the effective reduction of the portfolio of state assets managed by the Ministry of State Assets and the CERP, in particular, draws attention to the fact that a public call was issued at the end of August 2019 for the purchase of shares and the share of 30 companies owned by the Ministry of State and the CERP, and the implementation of the public tendering procedure is defined by the companies, which are, respectively, the companies owned by the minority state. As regards the other measures which operate on this specific objective, it is noted that during the period 2015 to 2019, the Ministry of State Assets under the Programme... the programme submitted to the EU Commission 6 requests for technical assistance from the total value of approved projects of EUR 1 million and EUR 673 000. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The status of the projects mentioned is that one project relating to the establishment of a single framework for reporting and monitoring the business of state-owned companies is completed worth 273,000 euros. Also, there are projects that are in realisation, restructuring of state-owned companies worth 250 000 euros, another project is strengthening the competence of supervisory and audit committees in state-owned companies of 150 000 euros, the third project is to activate the commercialisation of non-operational assets in companies and the majority state-owned value of 300 000 euros. Also, there are two newly approved projects by the same body, which are improving corporate governance in state-owned companies, auditing and harmonising legislation in line with OECD guidelines worth 350 000 euros, strengthening the efficiency and productivity of companies owned, which is worth 350 thousand euros. The success of the implementation of the specific objective in this continuation of the privatisation of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and the improvement and management of legal persons of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia will be monitored and reported and evaluated through the following indicators. Contribution to the reduction of the budget deficit and public debt, contribution to the increase in credit rating and to the reduction in the level of debt of state-owned companies, and thus to the general government's responsibilities, as well as the orientation and recruitment of funds into priority and development projects of the Republic of Croatia. The third specific objective of this strategy is to effectively manage movements that have been permanently seized for the purpose of committing a criminal offence. The management of assets in the form of movements in a narrow sense implies the movables that the Ministry of State Assets acquires and then has at its disposal and which are permanently seized for the purpose of committing a criminal offence. The management and availability of the permanently seized assets refers to the permanent confiscation of the finished money and the permanently seized movables. In this respect, the specific objective of effective management of the movement that has been permanently seized for the purpose of committing a criminal offence is to be operationalised through the following measures. The first measure is to reduce the movable portfolio through sales, and the second is to activate movables by handovers to use, rent or lease in accordance with the purpose of the permanently seized asset. On the line of measures presented, a public call for the submission of an offer for the purchase of a vehicle owned by the Republic of Croatia or in September 2019 is currently up to date. The success of the implementation of this objective will be monitored and reported and evaluated through the following outcome indicators. Contribution to the reduction of the budget deficit and public debt, contribution to the increase of credit rating and the focus and recruitment of funds into priority development projects of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of State Property shall seek and seek to continue to dispose of permanently seized movements, immediately after the handover by the competent authorities in order to allow for more rational and more economical availability. At the same time, the decision on the availability of the ministry shall take account of the social component and the needs of other state bodies and of the users of the state budget. As the ministry cannot predict how much movement will be permanently seized in which criminal proceedings and committed to the availability of the ministry, I am unable to further quantify the target values in the long term rather than predicting future availability of potential committed permanent property. Furthermore, when making final decisions on the availability, the assets collected shall be permanently taken into account the needs of the state authorities, social welfare institutions and other beneficiaries of the state budget, so that I also cannot foresee the possible decision-making of the use, rental or lease of permanent removals of movables. 4. The specific objective is to harmonise the proposals for new regulations. Namely, through the current models and regulation of state-owned assets, the need to speed up simplification has been seen, by increasing the efficiency of the state-owned process. The Harmonised Property Management System in the Republic of Croatia is a continuous process requiring a continuous analysis of the existing situation and carrying out additional regulation to improve the activation of the assets. This applies in particular to the removal of shortcomings in the legislative framework, the detection and removal of duplication of transactions and overlapping of powers by several authorities of the state administration and coordination with those bodies. It is also an increase in efficiency and acceleration of the asset process. Starting from the premise that the amendments and additions to the old ones, i.e. the adoption of new regulations and acts, should be handled in a transparent manner and in accordance with the regulations governing the participation of the interested public. It would also enable the addressees of the regulations to participate in their adoption and the collection of as much relevant information as possible, and to make such a request operational through the following measures, which is to propose amendments and additions to the applicable rules, and to draft new rules to improve the management of state assets while successful implementation is monitored, reported and evaluated by means of an improved regulatory framework for effective management of state assets and all in accordance with the law, with the provisions of the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations. 5. The specific objective of this strategy is to lead standardised development and improve comprehensive internal records,... the form of state property managed by the Ministry of State Assets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This objective shall be operationalised through the following measures. The first measure is the functional establishment of a state property management information system, the second measure is the establishment of a comprehensive internal record... the state-owned state-owned assets and the third is the establishment of a model for the management and availability of state-owned assets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A comprehensive record of state property, infrastructure and... effective management of state assets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the decision to use State assets will need to be based on collected and processed timely verifiable data on the entire assets and related liabilities. On the date of entry into force of the Law on the Central Register of State Assets, i.e. on 22 December 2018, the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society became the competent authority for the keeping of a register or was taken over by the Ministry of State Property in the management and further establishment of the Central Register. It is just in Article 55. The State Property Management Act defined how the Ministry will keep records of the assets it manages and which will form an integral part of the central... State assets in view of the obligations of data delivery within the meaning of the Central State Property Register Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The success of implementing this measure will be monitored and evaluated through the following outcomes. This is the central register of state property as a management system that allows for quality and developmental decision-making in terms of state property management in a broader sense. The second measure is internal, the second outcome is an internal record of state property as a management system that enables quality and developmental decision-making in the way of managing state property managed by the Ministry of State Assets and the third outcome is to improve the management of the effects of state property management and availability. 6. The specific objective of this strategy is to prepare, produce and report on the implementation of acts of strategic planning... the following measures will improve the management of state assets through actions of strategic planning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The success of this implementation will be monitored and evaluated through the improvement of the strategic planning framework for effective management of state assets and will be primarily covered by this specific objective by the annual management plan of state assets. There is a report on the implementation of the annual plan on state property management, three-year strategic plans, i.e. the four-year implementation programme of the Ministry of State Assets, all in accordance with the provisions and newspapers of the Strategic Planning and Development Management Act of the Republic of Croatia and the half-yearly and annual report in the implementation of the same documents. The third outcome is a report on the progress and implementation of reform measures and specific recommendations in accordance with the semester in the ministry's competence as well as the preparation of documents of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia in 2013. The implementation of this specific objective is primarily the continuity of the current multi-annual activity of the Ministry of State Assets in the creation of acts of strategic planning, implementation reports, the same public, available, publicly available documents. Also implementing this particular goal which is... a very active, multi-monthly and multi-annual participation of representatives of the Ministry of State Property in inter-resor working groups for the development of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of 2013 and in the work of the Network of Strategic Planning Coordinators will have importance in the further establishment of the system of strategic planning at national level and will have a close link with the content of more strategic planning acts than national importance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 7th objective of this strategy is to strengthen human potential, information communication technology and the financial potential of the Ministry of State Property. It has been identified as supporting the successful implementation of previously described objectives. State property management strategy for 2019/2025. A year. It shall be operationalised through the following measures: strategic management of human potentials, improvement of information and digitisation and improvement of financial management. The success of implementation will be monitored, reported and evaluated through the following indicators. The first is to improve the human need for effective management of state property. The second is the promotion of information and communication support for effective management of state assets. And the third is to improve financial support for effective management of state assets. Finally, the successful implementation of all these specific, these 7 last objectives will contribute to the realisation of the strategic objective of governance of state assets, which will demonstrate the impact of strengthening competitiveness in the Republic of Croatia's economy, as well as the achievement of infrastructure, social and other public objectives in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. It is also important to point out that the strategic objectives and specific objectives identified in this strategy will be integrated on a synthetic and general basis in the wider management area of good governance, in the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, which is currently in place and on various implementation mechanisms, strategic projects and structural reforms for the implementation of the strategic objectives and development measures of the National Development Strategy. In accordance with Article 18. The Law on State Property Management is the very process of drawing up a draft strategy through the requested preliminary indication involving other central authorities of the state administration and other institutions and legal persons with special powers which, according to specific regulations, manage the assets of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, scientists from the Faculty of Economics at the University of Zagreb were involved in the development of the strategy. The State Property Management Strategy document for the seven-year period has passed the process of coordinating acts prior to the referencing to public consultation with the interested public. Only a few remarks and suggestions of purely natural persons were received in the context of a one-month public consultation. They were considered, did not represent the essential thread, structural remarks on the content of the document itself. In addition, in the ordinary procedure, the draft strategy was referred to the competent authorities of the State Administration, the Law Office and other institutions most of which had no objections within their jurisdiction. The comments and suggestions received, which were considered and adopted, were complemented in the text of the draft strategy's proposal for reference to the professional working bodies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the State Property Management Strategy for 2019/2025. For years it has been focused on systematic, visible, optimal and long-term sustainable management of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, based on the principles of responsibility, public, economic and predictability. It is also in the service of achieving economic, infrastructure and other strategic and development objectives and protecting national interests with the purpose of preserving property, its importance for life and the work of existing future generations. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Law on the Strategic Planning and Development Management System of the Republic of Croatia shall act as strategic planning acts, which shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Act by 31 December 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164141	I would like to thank the Minister for explaining the strategy's proposal. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164142	Dear colleagues, like this, today seems to me like we're in the Soviet Union last century in '29, here I am, I think I saw Stalin here, Lenin actually. Short questions, do you even have a database of how taken away people's land in the former system and what about it? What about this unprocessed land in Eastern Slavonia? 100,000 Germans lived there, Croatians of German origin, it was all taken away, what about that land, thousands of farms, etc., these are roots today with Slavonia, the roots of that. What about real estate, union, SUBNOR, KPH, and who took it in that transition period back in the '90s? You have... the answer to these questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you're not listening to me, sir, when I'm talking to you, be polite here. The other thing is who lives in... apartments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's someone funny here,... Vesna Pusic who may know who lives in other people's apartments...... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The people who were, who were killed there in '45. years, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's all funny to you and you're the heir to that noble red, you socialists [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] You have a socialism bullet in your head and a wire around... [[Upadica Brkic: Kologa Glasnović, colleague Glasnović!]] It's you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164143	Comrade Glasnović,......... I would like to remind you of my colleague, Mr. Glasović, on the basis of Article 239. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Rules of Procedure and please do not act like this in the assembly and in such a way address the MPs and MPs. Answer... Comrade Glasnović, we are finished, we have a reply to the replica of the respected minister, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164144	When we talk about the return of state property it is based on a special law and is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Property so that I cannot answer this question you asked me. ... No, it's not in the Ministry of State Property's domain. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164145	A fellow Glasnović. We're moving on to the next replica of the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go. My colleagues, please let him go. A fellow Glasnović. ... Mr. Glasnović, on the basis of Article 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of this agenda point. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, colleague Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about the Property Management Strategy in Croatia, we are witnessing that state property is not well managed, but on the other hand we are witnessing that politicians who are in position who come from HDZ are processing and managing their assets, so I would even say very untransparently in some situations. I wonder if this strategy also covers the issue. How to answer the question that Dubravka Shuica has increased her assets and cannot explain to the tax administration where her property value is disproportionate to a million and a half euros in some of the information we are now proposing for a European Commissioner, a member of the European Commission, a Vice-President of the European Commission and Prime Minister Plenkovic has collapsed on all those who are looking for a simple answer. Show Mrs. Shuica a tax administration solution, we'd like to see Mrs. Shuica's tax administration solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164148	Thank you, colleague Maras, for letting you finish but please stick to the subject. We're talking about state property here, not the property of individuals. ... A colleague, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164149	And I cannot agree that the management of state assets is not good and here is in line with the activation of state assets in the period from 11 month 2016 to 9 month 2019 respectively. First of all, the Ministry of State Property has created preconditions for organised rational public development management and supervision of state property and its related obligations on behalf and on behalf of the account of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In particular in the area of corporate governance, the Ministry of State Property actively participated in the activities of completing privatisation and improving the management of companies. It also reduces the portfolio of shares in business shares, non-strategic companies carried out to reduce the budget deficit, public debt and increase the credit rating. In particular, revenue from the sale of shares in business shares of €9 million, €983 million, there is a payment of the share of profits of companies of special interest to the Republic of Croatia in the amount of €1.9 billion. There is revenue from a financial asset of 23.5 million kuna, there is resolution many years of problems. [[Upadica Brkić: I thank the ministers.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164150	We're moving on to the next replica of honorary colleague Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164151	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. In this material that we have obtained among other things is a part related to the camps and it clearly states that it is foreseen that by the end of 2019 to bring an amendment to the law or a new law on unrated building land. It's about, you know, it's about camps and everything. Since we're at the end of September 2019 and so the end is here somewhere, I'm interested in what stage it is, what did you do, what was the law predicting? For the simple reason that material shows that around ten camps have been regulated so far, and 77 are commercial companies that manage camps, this is one of the potential for tourism development. In the development of tourism we swear and it would be good if we knew where it came from or if this is the wrong data then write the end of 2020 to be a good data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164152	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164153	The Law on Unrated Building Land has passed a consultation, is currently on professional working bodies and I believe we will soon have it here in the Parliament. It was adopted primarily for the reason that the 2010 law did not get good results or we did not solve these issues that you mentioned about the camps and I believe it will be this law and that we will be able to do so through a quality debate here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164154	I thank you for your response to the Honored Minister. Next replica, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164155	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. As you well know, IDS is constantly in favour of decentralisation. After the Law on State Property Management, which is still centralized, we expected this strategy to continue, since it is a long-term kind of decentralisation of state property management, you continue to insist on this centralisation. As the government predicted that state offices' affairs were entrusted to the counties, we think that it is also the state property management business that is not of strategic importance to transfer i.e. to trust the management of the local self-government unit. And what may be most important, the revenues you will receive from the sale, concession or lease of those areas located in the unit of local self-government are the revenues of the state. We believe that these revenues should also be shared towards local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164156	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164157	The strategy is a roof document based on the State Property Act, and it contains in itself how I stated here in the State Property Management Plan for each year, so that this plan defined some detailed questions in accordance with the requirements of the units of local or regional self-government. And in accordance with Article 80 of the Treaty on the The State Property Management Act so far has been issued 84 tabular documents owned by units of local self-government, or regional, which is approximately 602 thousand square meters for school, health homes, institutions, cemetery, morgues, monuments, parks, squares, playgrounds, sports facilities, social firehouses, market. The most important ones in this category are contracts for the donation of units of local and regional self-government in which 192 contracts have been contracted, which assesses the market value of 680 million kuna. So we continue this work further, I said we are preparing a plan that will soon come to the government where there will continue to be demands of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and I believe that in the next year when I report on this plan we will be... /The speakers speak at the same time./... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164158	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164159	Thank you very much. Minister, state property is one of the biggest resources that have been mostly unused, but I would like to ask you a specific question. So you recently announced the sale of the land of 85 thousand and 500 square meters on Lake Peruca by the lake of Peru, can you explain? Because we have to be careful in some things, yet Lake Peru is very important and ecological so it's been restored recently. Can you say for what purpose and for what purpose and for whom this land is intended by the lake of Peru? I repeat it once again is in the area of the town of Vrlika in the Cetina region. Of course the public is interested in the reason for the sale of this land, state property i.e. In your portfolio, you have called for sales. Can you tell me why it's selling or why it's not a concession, or why it's not a concession, or why it's some of the reasons it's going to?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164160	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. The reply of the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164161	Since the competition is under way and it will only be over next week, I can't comment on it. The very reasons, the purpose, the purpose is defined by a spatial plan, we can't even call apart the purpose of that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164162	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164163	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is a very important document and what should be pointed out is that it sublimes everything that is here in the short term that your ministry managed to do. And I would like to point out that a big step has been made towards the units of local self-government, which many colleagues in the opposition do not admit, so where they listen and listen to the needs of local self-government and the basis of quality projects that local self-government units have been able to donate, then these land are being detained for the purpose. It is very important in this review that you have to say that property management is very important both for the state and for local self-government units that have not had quality records so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164164	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164165	I thank you for your commendation of the ministry's work so far. The most important project at this time is the donation of real estate, primarily the entrepreneurial infrastructure in the municipalities of Pećan, the town of Križevci, Brinje, Lombarda, the town of Nova Gradiška, St. Sunday, the town of Varazdin, the municipality of Kotorim, the municipality of Babina Greda, the municipality of Drinja, the town of Ilock, the town of Lipik, meaning these are really valuable land in which business zones should be developed. We also have a section relating to residential care and demographic restoration, specifically the municipality of Sveti Filip Jakov, the municipality of Čepin, the municipality of Poličnik, the town of Vis, the municipality of Punovci, there are further waste managements in the towns of Daruvar, the municipality of Daruvar, Blato, Vela Luka, the town of Metković, the municipality of Medulin, the municipality of Vrsar, the town of Umag, the town of Osijek, the town of Mali Losinj, the town of Cres, the town of Kutjevo, the municipality of Jelenje, the municipality of Split-Dalmatia County, the town of Orahovica, the town of Ilok, the municipality of Babin Greda, the municipality of Novi Vinograd. There's also others, others. Like. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164166	I thank the ministers. Next replica, honorary colleague Angelko Striker, come in. I'd like a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164167	Then give it back to me. Vice-President HS, colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates, that there is room for better management of state property, there is even though the current government has made a major step in this matter. As an example, I'm going to name a military station in Varazdin on Optujska Street, where it's after 15 years. The collapse of all these objects the whole space detained purpose, one part used by the military, another University of the North, the third association of citizens, the fourth city and the county, this is a good example in which the former military can be put into circulation to serve the purpose. The town of Varazdin, as far as I know, is now looking for another space, the same former military in the white statue area and several properties in the city itself, and so taught by this good military experience in Optujska, I recommend that meetings be held and that this be updated as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164168	Thank you very much. The Minister of Honor's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164169	As far as military facilities are concerned, those who, who are granted the consent of the Ministry of Armed Forces, or who are not in their interest or in their development strategy, will be committed to the Ministry of State Property, will be part of those exactly annual plans that I said in the previous presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164170	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164171	Thank you. Mr. Minister, it is obvious from your presentation that this strategy has not answered three important questions. First, that the state would be more efficient in managing state assets, secondly that it would boost investments and thirdly that it would speed up economic development. We are in favour of having property of strategic national interest under the rule of the state, and secondly, that the remaining assets be managed by units of local self-government and for the following reasons, firstly because it is more efficient, because it will speed up the investment process, speed up economic development and very important, which is very little to talk about, end pointless disputes between the state and municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164172	Thank you. Do you want to answer the Minister's question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164173	In each of these processes of any of these projects that I have listed, so we have the consent of the state's attorney's office, so that's one, one of the reasons you're talking about right now. What I've stated so far in my presentation, all these powerful projects and millions of kunas that are in this 3rd year. stemming from an orderly relationship with state property, they are just saying that we are working to encourage economic development, to encourage investment, but also to achieve a correct relationship with state property which has not been the case so far. In particular, when we talk about the state's attorney's office, it gives consent to every subject and even transfer to the units of local self-government that you're talking about. So, when resolving this property legal relationship, you should also worry about whether the local self-government unit is ready to implement the project to the end in accordance with the requirement it is doing. We haven't had a number of times that just the local self-government unit hasn't used that legal period since the age of 5, doesn't bring in the donated property for purpose, so then it becomes a problem further at the maintenance of the property. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164174	I thank the minister. I am opening a debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members and colleagues, respected ministers with their associates, state property is a strategy like you said, it should be a very important document, but we need to know that, we all know, one of the biggest potentials of development of the Republic of Croatia, it's dead capital, and what was used, it's mostly state property illegal, mostly illegal, and of course there is, a debate could be opened about how much of this property was used and who had all the profits from the state property that was used. We need to know that there is much to be found through military former armies that are in the most attractive places, which can be used for the tourism potential and development of certain environments, but most of it has not been used, and that is one of the reasons why they have been means of huge potentials, one of the reasons why people have moved out of these areas, only when we talk about former military facilities that are not perspective, which are not in the defence system, which are in the state property system, we know that this potential, how much would be a development element. However, I have asked the Minister one question, I am not satisfied with the question, if I ask you Ministers why it is being sold, and it does not remain in the concession if it is T2, if it is intended for tourism purposes in the area of Vrlica 88501 m2, it is a very important question for the Cetina landscape, people living in the area, pollution of these waters, of course it should be seen for the development of tourism, but for which it is sold, because this area has general municipal equipment, which will happen with water, means some property such as the Peruca tribune in this case is a little bit around Peruca, you are selling exactly the water from Peru, you know what it means to Cetina for the whole Dalmatian, Dalmatia and Dalmatian Zagora as a source of drinking water, but here you have easily answered me, the competition is ongoing, you would not answer, you are not selling this, you have not, you have not given in the concession. Believe me, there are no conditions down there, no sewers, if what it is, I don't know what it might be, I don't suppose it's going to be a factory, I didn't generally get what it's for, and it's mine to stop so much, and I don't have the potential to do that, but the fact is that this country along the river Cetina, right next to Lake Peruca, which was declared by the lake of Peru, which was declared the most beautiful lake, among the three most beautiful in Europe between Dinara and Svilaje, is also the potential of drinking water, which is also the largest base in Europe of drinking water more than 500 thousand cubic metres at one point. So we're talking about a sensitive issue. You... You answer, you answer management, technical manager, we, it's in the contest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I asked you in another context a question. No matter what it is, it's probably some kind of significant project and what someone's already thrown their paws at me not to say otherwise under the supposed signs. The second question is what will happen in this area if we give this property rather than in the concession. Because I know that in this area of Peru there is no sewerage, it is this part, probably or somewhere, I am not exactly what I asked myself, but when I saw it and it is worrying about the whole region of Dalmatia and all of Croatia. Let's not play to let the Plitvica case happen that the sewerage of the entire Plitvice, Plitvice Lakes, the national park, enters because of the failure of the sewer system, enters a hole, a pit open, a contiguous pit that enters the water later and pollutes, and we know that 2 million people visit the Plitvice area. I'm not against development, it's my end, if it's in anyone's interest to develop, but let's be careful not to destroy what's most important and important. Because when we sell property to the state, in that area, we need to be careful. Because we can do the right thing 10x more damage than we can count on to succeed. Therefore, I asked you not for reasons to criticize you but for reasons of caution to inform the public. I know that you said that the competition is under way, I know that the public in the Cetina region and Dalmatia is interested in this question of what's going on in this area, I've cited the reasons, I haven't received a concrete answer from you, I repeat again, and I'm afraid that someone threw a paw at that beautiful area with, ie. Lake Peru is in the river Cetina. I must say that these areas of our Cetina landscape produce 40%, Cetina, plum, 40% of the Republic's hydropower, in return we got nothing. Nothing. And praise it... Split-Dalmatia County, then a merger on the highway 50 thousand people did not get a date. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have a date, 50,000 people more people than Lico-Sen County, more people. The area of the Cetina region, where you are now selling land, to whom I don't know, I don't know the reasons, in a location that needs to be clean. That's unconditional. The ecological sea, it's water, water. It's water. It's a surface area larger than Međimurje County. In return, you have done nothing to us other than boasting about the county, I see that it has written you a list of what you boasted about what you did, and you mentioned the Split-Dalmatia County. This Split-Dalmatia County since its founding in Dalmatia because of its carelessness and state property has evicted 100,000 people from Krka to Neretva, 100 thousand people, the greatest potential of people, and what is the only source of human capacity, was the source, many families of which remained numerous both in Zagreb and in third countries unfortunately. But now it's worse than during all these occupations through history as far as demographic policy is concerned, worse. For what? Because you can't tell the MP here to ask a question, to compete in progress, to Lake Peru, so it's not a toy. Well, you can't talk about these things on a surface technical basis. So you sell the land, you don't give in concessions under certain conditions. I know local self-government probably wants to sell it, but how can local self-government ask to sell it? I smell both head and tail and local community here, this is a really serious question. Don't play with Peru and Cetina. Many are trying to play with Cetina and Peru, because the Republic of Cetin plum has 40% hydropower alone. We still have more of those old wires when the stalker goes out of power or when they're clogging on electrical infrastructure in Osijek. Don't play with state property, own land along the edges like Cetina. I asked you culturally, you said the procedure was competitive, but you didn't answer anything else. What's the point? Is the infrastructure, who is obliged to make the infrastructure, is it going to be protected, ecologically? It's the area of Lake Peru, I repeat, river Cetina. Now imagine what I know that I noticed in the sale of state property what's in these other paragraphs, you colleagues and colleagues, look, I can deliver to you the sale of state property, who knows what they're selling, an ecological area we have to preserve. Well, I've had enough of this. I mean, just here as a councilman, I'm tired of talking about it. When I warned about the damages of the projects on Perca,... There, former Minister Dalic was simply furious, savage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you don't just have to pull your interests out on this troubled people and it doesn't have to be just the Cetin end, the Dalmatian Zagora exploiting field of interest groups. We can't just be that. So stop it, and the people have moved away, there is no one there, an empty school. Let go of the praise stories, there's the one yesterday in Trill, it's all settled, let go of the ministers and ministers, the agriculture, there's plenty of praise, the Chetinski end was destroyed, the Dalmatian Zagora, believe me. Be careful, Minister, I know you've just arrived, I don't know who made it through, maybe it's all for the best, but your answer is, I'm an even bigger questionnaire. I am also sending a message to the people of Dalmatia of the Cetin region that the minister's answer is not satisfactory and that I expect an answer on the issue of selling land along Lake Peru. I expect an answer to what's going on. I expect an answer. The people won't let you destroy it. That's all we have left. Water and a little air in the Dalmatian area burns pools of human potentials, the most numerous families. Look at the schools in this area, if this is a project that is sustainable and that will be environmentally sustainable and if it is protected, don't do what you did on Plitvice Lakes, don't destroy that pool of drinking water. I invite all of you here are parliamentary deputies, mostly you from the ninth, fellow constituencies of the constituency and colleagues. I invite you, Mr. Dodik, too, to be careful here about selling land in such sensitive areas. These areas have been evicted, but let's not allow it to be exclusively exploiting fields, that's not the end it deserves. We need to know that water is the resource of the 21st century, not even oil, now from that evicted area even, even on state property will be drilling Dinarid. At the same time as the minister comes to the island of Dalmatian, the environment minister, collects all mayors and mayors and says it will be the nature park Dinara. At the same time, we will drill these areas, whose interest, who will have profit, ask these questions, how much harm they will be, whether there will be much greater damage than what they will benefit from, INA or who will get it. Minister, please answer this question seriously, consider this sale, do not endanger and remain remembered, I am aware that you have just come, I have no intention of performing critically. When your colleagues sell land, property, keep an eye on it. Just so we can warn the minister so he doesn't stray. I believe that with the origins of Livna, here's my colleague Shucker, that he will raise his voice for this, and so far, I can see that you've listened very carefully, just keep on to and on with that concern, and I expect you ministers seriously, I'm not warning, I'm just saying what people expect and what people are questioning. And you didn't give me an answer about the sale of 88,500 m2 by Lake Peru. You said the contest was under way. So it's not a concession. It's a sale. These are large questionnaires, with thousands of screamers, and the people must know. Don't make the people rise again. That he had to get up. As you're understood, I'd like you to give me an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164176	I thank my colleague Bull. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164177	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, this Proposal for a Strategy on State Property Management for the period from 2019 to 2025. The HDZ Club will support it. In front of us is an extremely important strategic document that brings the Croatian Parliament to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a period of 7 years, and we can say that we are putting too long the potential of state property into function of economic growth and so far thousands of decisions have been made that reactivated state property. State assets have been placed in the service of economic development of local environments and have been improved and managed by state-owned companies. The activation of state assets will also provide support to the expansion of business of entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Inactive state property, the government will activate with the purpose of realising entrepreneurial ventures in two ways. By activating unused real estate and land in favour of entrepreneurial ideas and by activating unused real estate for the benefit of municipalities, cities and counties, and for the purpose of building new business support and institutions. Given the number of unused state assets that generate large costs, it is necessary for the government to take appropriate measures to activate it, and in particular to put it into function as an economy. The State Property Management System is demanding and complex for a number of reasons and it is good for one such comprehensive document to clearly identify the long-term objectives and guidelines of governance of state assets by respecting our country's economic and development priorities. As the State Property Management Strategy is a sectoral strategy and an act of strategic planning of national importance, it is the same in the service of achieving both economic infrastructure and other strategic development objectives and protecting national interests with the purpose of preserving property and its importance for the life and work of existing and future generations. One of the central principles that we can read about in these strategies is that state property is managed, available and used effectively and reasonably, with the attention of a good master in accordance with the principles of responsibility, public, economic and predictability. Institutional framework consisting of the Ministry of State Property, the Centre for Restructure and Sales and the Company of State Property d.o.o. is set up to ensure efficient and transparent management. In order for some strategies to be adopted, a good analysis of the existing state of governance of state assets available in this strategy is needed first, where all the forms of government property are covered. A qualitatively identified starting assumption for effective management of the same. It is a functional establishment of a comprehensive quality and quantitative list of assets, i.e. a database of all the emerging forms of state property managed by this ministry. The analysis of companies and other legal entities is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, including an analysis of asset management in the form of founding rights in legal entities where the Republic of Croatia is the founder. It identified the need to establish a strategic approach in determining legal persons of particular interest. It is necessary to identify priority management and availability activities for legal persons of particular interest in the next seven years. Commercial companies and legal persons of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia only in 2018 had revenue of over 56 billion kuna with a profit of slightly less than 5 billion, of course Croatia's electricity industry has the highest profit of 1.4 billion kuna, while Croatian railways - Infrastructure has the greatest loss of 100 million kuna. The analysis of the management of state assets in the form of shares and business shares managed by the CERP indicates a slowdown in the number of companies managed by it. The main barriers to the realisation of sales relate to the economic financial situation of the company, to the existence of full or partial reservations that make it difficult to sell first purchase rights, as well as to the constant increase in the portfolio of the acquisition of shares to the management of the pre-departure settlement process. State assets in the form of shares and business shares up to 49.99% are in 352 companies, while more than 50% of the shares are in 27 companies. With 31.12.2018, there were 6222 apartments, 4461 business premises, 380 million m2 of building land, which is extremely large and valuable, valuable property that should really be activated as soon as possible. Furthermore, the fundamental effective management of real estate is regulated property legal relations. In this respect, it is necessary to remove the following obstacles, the non-compliance of the land-marked and catastrian situation. non-resolved property relationship, property legal relations which extends the course of resolution of the same and judicial proceedings, unfinished different proceedings conducted for the purpose of establishing the right of ownership, the active filling, and completed court proceedings for which no records of disputes have been deleted in land books. The aim is to bring real estate into a state of property legal, but also spatially planned and functional market capacity. For example, with the aim of effectively managing non-spective military assets, such as 543 inspective military properties, it is also necessary to address the problem of non-compliance with spatial plans, higher and lower levels, and frequent changes in spatial plans in order to bring those assets into a state of spatial planning capacity. It is not necessary to forget the property that is in the process of succession, the problem has been updated since 2004, as well as the assets permanently seized for the purpose of committing criminal offences. Only the money collected permanently was paid to the state budget from 2011 to the end of 2018, while it was permanently taken away from the real estate part of the day for the management and use of the Ministry of Demography, Youth, Family and Social Policy. Furthermore, the assumption of effective real estate management is both the establishment and structure of the overall, comprehensive and quality records of individual forms of state property. All identified weaknesses of the existing state property management system were an important element in the form, in the establishment of a governmental property management strategy for the next period, and will work through specific objectives, strategic measures, projects and activities on the gradual removal of identified weaknesses. The enormous potential, which is still unfortunately often falling due to these perceived weaknesses, should also be encouraged by implementing this strategy through the realization of the outlined objectives, which are precisely defined in the text and for which operationalisation has been elaborated. The objectives are effective management of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, continuation of the privatisation of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and improvement of management of legal persons of particular interest, effective management of movements that have been permanently seized for the purpose of committing a criminal offence, harmonisation and proposal for new regulations, management, standardised development and improvement of comprehensive internal records of emerging forms of state property managed by the Ministry, preparing and drawing up reports on the implementation of acts of strategic planning, as well as strengthening human potential, information communication technology and financial potentials of the Ministry of State Property. In addition to the realisation of the strategic objective of governance of state assets, it is equally important to allocate generated effects from the use of state property, and it is necessary to manage the effects of state property management in a way that is directed and employed into priority development projects of the Republic of Croatia. The development of the principles set out in the strategy clearly and concisely should meet the vision of the Ministry of State Assets, which provides for systematic, visible, optimal, and long-term sustainable management of RH-owned assets based on the principles of responsibility, public, economic and predictability which is in the service of achieving economic infrastructure and other strategic development objectives and protecting national interests with the preservation of assets and its importance for the life and work of existing and future generations. It is important to note that the vision of the Ministry of State Assets contributes to the vision and developmental direction defined in the national development strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. and I think it's a good way to adopt future sectoral strategies. In conclusion, the number of employees is now growing in the Republic of Croatia, the largest since 2012. The decline in the number of unemployed, GDP increased in the first quarter not more than 12 years ago, was raised by credit rating and the activation of available state property according to the proposal of this strategy in the coming period we are confident that we can expect even better results, even better figures. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this proposal for a strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164178	I thank my esteemed colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. Next debate on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, respected counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164179	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates. In front of us is the proposal for a State Property Management Strategy for 2019/2025. Since this coalition unusual government, we have the Ministry of State Property Management, despite being an opposition representative, I was also one of those who advocated that we have this ministry for a simple reason, because even though at that moment it was a debate that Mr. former Minister Goran Maric must have the ministry so that it was invented. I was kind of there, and I thought it was a good idea to have the Ministry of State Property Management because that's how we actually send a message that it's important for this country to manage its assets in a quality way and that the message that's why it's important that we have a ministry. It would be convenient if the debate on this strategy included former Minister Maric, who is a parliamentary representative, and through the debate, some things would be more interesting. When I read this strategy, I feel like it's an endless day in that movie, that's the one where a man wakes up every morning and starts over. I'm so, so afraid it's also in this strategy. And I'm going to explain a little bit what I mean by that. There on page 92 is a sentence that says the foundation of effective real estate management is arranged property legal relations. In this respect, it is necessary to remove the following obstacles, the inconsistencies of land-based and catastrian conditions, i.e. Unsolved property legal relations, which extends the course of settlement of property legal relations and judicial proceedings, not to read any further. If we had a problem with the catastrophe and the gruntovnica, there's no newspaper, there's no problem with the unsettled situation in the cataster and the grantines are no newspapers either. That even when you have an enrollment in a garland property, I mean something that's a much more perceptible apartment or business space then it turns out that your square is not right to own a smaller square or larger square. And that's when you're discussing, when you're talking about business spaces, or those 6 grand 222 apartments or 4000 461 business spaces, it's recorded. But what has been done, has, since the Ministry was founded since 2017, 2019, or 2016, from 2016 until now, what has been done? What actions have they begun and completed? Are there any special teams dealing with this? Because for the simple reason we get a new strategy every time that we figure it out and move on. What matters is, it's important to see the shift and to see that something is done. A large number of sales and rentals were announced and placed in the function of the property. There is no way to sell except below the objective price of real estate for which property legal relations are not resolved. If the state has no mechanism, no way, no elements to resolve its property legal relations as we expect from our citizens? So what would be a priority would be to take down the cadastre and the garland, the priority would be if there were a special team to do it. We in GLAS are in favour of one model and I am sure by experience, however, we have some experience in all that what if this country wanted to make a certain step in all of this should be passed by one law, solved or established by one body or in one ministry that will be in charge of setting up a cadastre and grantovnica because your problem is always there and you know it very well two procedures. One procedure is related to the catasters, it comes out, measured, the procedure is conducted in the cataster, everything is settled in the cataster, you have, or there are complaints, the Administrative Court. And when you solved it, then you came halfway because then you went behind it to the garland. So there should be one procedure, you should get rid of it,... 6% of the construction area, solve it for 6% of the construction area, and then have a condition in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it seems to me that one of the tasks of the ministry in charge of asset management is to be the driver of such a single project, even moreover, that perhaps together with another resolution ministry together participates in all this because another law will come again, another story will come and we will have the stated things we have and now stated. The law was passed there in 2010 and then the law said that since 1.1.2011, we must have the Central Property Management Register, and then that Central Property Management Register was changed a little bit. At a time when we all rely on digitization, at a time when we all really need to get accurate information in real time, it's not done yet. And even more on page 82, you say that what needs to be done, how data needs to be standardised, how they should be methodologically worked out, what you want to have are elements in that register, that other words mean it's been eight years, and in eight years we're still here with a limp cat or something we're still trying to do, and the question is what we're trying to do. And then we have something that, I can really agree there, says the strategic goal of managing state property is sustainable, economical and transparent management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, sentences to which you can neither take away nor add. But let's go behind that into the real world. You can't manage when it comes to property that you still have a problem with identifying ownership, which you still know you have a problem with taking care of the catastrophe and the garland, that's the property you have that you can't manage. So the priority for the ministry to be able to do this job effectively would be to address the property-legal situation. And while it's gone, we and someone else will have a chance and then we'll just see if it's a number of apartments or a number of business spaces bigger or less. Without it you don't have the tools to control, you can only manage the one you own. I think that's where one of my colleagues mentioned decentralisation, mentioned the disputes between local self-government and the state. We have disputes that lead to us, one of the excellent examples is the example of Mljet where one municipality sold land to one investor to find behind that state that the municipality couldn't sell because it wasn't municipal land, it was state land. The investor paid, the money went missing in the budget of that municipality and we still have a problem. So if we have the Ministry of Property Management, I'm here primarily and basically talking about apartments, business spaces, building land you need to know as soon as you manage and we need to know what we want to do with it, if we want to keep the property, these are strategic decisions. So let's finally know as soon as you manage and that you really manage it, and it's a strategic decision whether the state's land or business space is going to sell or will rent or give in the unknown right of construction or what it is, so these are strategic decisions. But you must have property that you can manage. I deliberately asked about the camps. I deliberately asked about the tourist land. We are a country that really depends on tourism, you know the impact of our GDP on tourism and must get the conditions for this tourism to develop. This document says that for 10 camps, relations have been resolved, and that we have 77 other commercial companies that have camps and that have made some demands for resolution and have not been solved. We have one law that we all found out we have a problem with land, but regardless of the law, what I asked the minister, let's hope that what we hear from the minister is true, so at the end of the year we'll have this law in the parliamentary procedure so let's see what step it takes to do so. We're coming up with something that's 543 non-prespective military property. When it comes to military real estate, we have the following situation, they are built, they are infrastructureised, they have always been special purposes in their current spatial plans because no one dared change their purpose until the Ministry of Defence declared that these properties do not have the need. I don't know how many years or centuries we have, so we're counting tens of years more and more, that for the 543 properties that the Ministry of Defence has decided that, in terms of those needs, they're unspective or better to say that they don't need them, to sit down with the county institutions that are responsible for the development of certain counties and are in charge of certain municipalities and cities, to see what the needs of certain municipalities and cities are, to carry out a change of spatial-planning documentation that these municipalities and cities that can get to these properties are and to put into operation. Maybe the function is space for the factory, I don't know what a function can be, but this is how we do for 543 properties, we have them now, maybe next time someone gets them there'll be 400, but that step we're supposed to take didn't. This strategy by 2025 actually speaks about how things are going to be solved by a snail step. Maybe it's a political decision you know. Sometimes it's good that some things don't come true, sometimes it's good that some places are kept for future times, and that's a decision. So, I've had a chance to ask, I've been to some education there's this fifteen years in Berlin, I'm asking why I've done one part that would have been great was in East Berlin, I'm saying check a little, so what's it cost you, says it's waiting, I say what's waiting, waiting for us to decide what's best for us to do here, everything we now seem to be not and waiting. Only in Croatia is there too much to wait for. In other words, this strategy actually speaks of a real state, that we have an asset that we don't have, that we want to manage it, and we don't manage it. She's got a couple of great sentences that I don't have any problem with agreeing with, but those are lines on the trail of that, it's nice to be young, it's nice to be smart, it's nice to be successful, we want to, but let's see at last. In this strategy we would have been better off if we had seen, within two years we would have solved property-legal relations, within five years we would have put into office together with municipalities and cities half of these unspective military buildings. If there were such things in this strategy, then one would say, we know what we want. So this is how we have a strategy, we're going to argue in the Parliament, we're going to be there, depending on the day that you get in a slightly larger and slightly smaller composition, and then it's going to pass, like the register, so 2011, 2019, 8 years, in 4 or 8 years, then we're going to record what we have. Finally, one excellent example is one company owned, 51% is the state, 49% is the City of Zagreb. This property is defined in this way, this company is called Apis, that company works mainly for the state. At the moment, there is an excellent stable trade and blackmail coalition of HDZ and Mr Bandic. I expected it to be, one of them, at least to solve the Apis problem, but we didn't solve it either. Strategy, new way of Apis but is a list of beautiful desires. But one step that should have already been made by the fact that something has become a ministry, we don't have that in this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164180	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Martin Baricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164181	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. This strategy, a debate in importance, determines the way and work of local self-government in every country and so on in the Republic of Croatia. I must say that the management of state property from the origin of the Croatian state to the day today seemed at first in a way that was simply not managed, that we had various agencies, audiences, DUDIs and what they had already called themselves, so when they were renamed, they went to other locations, then the records and requests they submitted disappeared. What we have today, or have the Law on State Property Management, is in a positive sense 3 light years away from what it looked like earlier. However, I must say that, in order for some real estate, which is most interested in local self-government, this is building land, to be put into operation, local self-government is obliged to produce spatial-planning documentation, often it is the preparation of a spatial plan, so it is the preparation of urban plans, certain location permits and so on, which are not small funds. When we do all this, then the state comes, opens up a tender and sells it. This is also no problem if the funds were to be allocated because it is said that, when placed into office, certain benefits by the investor and the entrepreneur, that legal entity, but all the benefits are contained in the communal fee. Tax, VAT, profit tax and all other taxes in the 100% amount go to the Treasury and the local self-government simply remains that, this communal fee. If we want to be responsible and attract investors, we need to be slightly different, especially if it's in the rural part, from some others, so give the investor some benefits. We are left with the same tool to free him from this municipal fee, to attract him, so that he can invest in our space. I hold, I mean, again if we compare tourist land for which we simply don't earn anything, if we take these camps and so on, I hold that from that amount that the Republic of Croatia is benefiting from, and also in the process of administrative proceedings, competitions, that local self-government should participate in all these things. Uh, we have an example of agricultural land, when agricultural land was in... The Republic of Croatia and implemented a resolution ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was definitely slower and with more negative consequences either when it was at national level, even at a lower price. We say that a large number of JLS in the Republic of Croatia simply does not have financial potential. There is no financial potential because such a tax system is in the Republic of Croatia. In order for you to put some real estate, some building land to function, bring the investor in, you have to build roads, plumbing, heating, anything that goes with it. So here, by the way, all roads to the Republic of Croatia except unclassified roads have guaranteed tax revenue and parafiscal duties. Only unclassified roads as the most expensive buildings do not have that guaranteed income. When we bring all this together, when we compare ourselves with developed countries within the EU and leave tools to local self-government, then we can talk about the success of progress and the local self-government concerned. In the previous debate, land books and cadastres were also mentioned. Definitely, it's one legacy that lasts well or almost, so it's never been fully arranged or arranged, but systematic neglect by definition of the former system has not been driven by concern for the past 70 years. Today, when we make an effort to solve the land books and solve the catastra, we again have no body that will monitor the behavior in space, so I'm afraid in 10 years we'll have a condition again, that we'll need to take new measurements. I would therefore suggest here that it would be necessary to consider the Institute of Public Authorities, which would have some geometry for a particular area and which would follow the situation in space to simply avoid the negative effects and what the modern state, which can influence and what is most important to it, is space, and if we don't keep it, it won't be good. We've had years of examples that we've been waiting for documents for public affairs for 10 years, or waiting for extraditions, that's not what happened. So when we compare that condition to this today, it's definitely positive. I must say that a certain period should also be for units of local self-government to adapt to the new law and the new legal solution because it has previously been resolved in a different way, so it is expected that, in local self-government, I often have no other words but to say not to understand the process by which these problems can be solved. The taste of demand and need, what I'm saying right now, is not just a question of this strategy, the strategy comes from the law, but it's a matter of one whole reflection that in all the strategies of the Republic of Croatia we are considering local self-government, we are also thinking about the revenues that we get from certain properties so that these local self-governments can prepare land. Can you imagine a business zone in which millions of euros should be invested in order to have some entrepreneurial activity happen? These millions are not even made through regular incomes from local self-government units, these millions are not even sold from that land. But if we're not in all things, then in taxes and real estate sales, we're installing local self-government units, then that's not good. Unfortunately, the tendency is that through other management of natural resources, local self-government should be strengthened by the example of developed EU countries, encouraged and more confidence that they work well because no one is more interested than people in a particular area in order for their territory to be neat, orderly and progress. Here's when I'm talking about roads and what I'm saying is that we're witnessing that the state has invested not a small amount of money into highways, but it's happening to us that we have crowds in cities and places for reasons that simply these roads aren't built and can't be built unless we've built units of local self-government that can function. And to end, and to say that, this itself prepares to be a property owned by the Republic of Croatia should also have a local strategy, should have personnel, which is most important to have money so that in one quality way they can apply to your ministry and then put it into office. In all respects of the times that were earlier and were extremely vague, we did not know how we would behave. This is a major progress, and I would like to consider this initiative, the idea of showing that we are thinking about the development of the whole of Croatia, so that certain amounts of income for these state-owned properties are left to local self-government units. Here I use the opportunity not only to be a part of it but also to make centralization in other governmental, tax and parafiscal duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164182	I thank my colleague Baričević. We have a replica of the esteemed colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go. Comrade Baričević, please step on the microphone. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164183	Thank you, Your Honor. I listen to you carefully and with most of the things you said I agree but not with the beginning where you said that this current system of ways is available with state property is 3 light years better than before, AUDI, DUDI and now the ministry. I know that for 10 years I've brought to DUUDI, AUDI and the Ministry literally tons of paper, literally tons of paper, I can prove it. I haven't solved any real estate. I'm not talking about real estate that can be sold, so land, apartments, business space, I'm talking about real estates that are firehouses, which are sports homes that are social homes, which we manage as municipalities and many cities and municipalities manage these properties I haven't got a single real estate. And it doesn't matter what it's called, in those 10 years, I haven't solved anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164184	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Baričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164185	I thank my colleague for asking the question. Well, this is exactly the solution that legally gives us the opportunity to solve it. Before it was here, I have an example in life that was paid, e.g. A cemetery or a state being registered to some square, some periquatory, something that doesn't make sense, and it's not normal. So if we take that thing that we did, I said in my statement that AUDI was DUUDI, what they called themselves as they moved from location to location that the papers were gone and that those demands we submitted had to be resuscitated and the demands lasted 10 years and we never solved. Now we have a clear procedure, and in that clear procedure, it's certainly better than it was before. We do, we know what to do while it was really unsettled before.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164186	Thank you. Before continuing the debate we welcome students and students and their professors and professors of the private classical high school from Zagreb. Welcome and enjoy your stay. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164187	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Baricevic, you have devoted a lot of your exposure to unclassified roads. Unclassified roads are what must be bothering you as the head of the municipality. But let's be honest and let's be honest and say what the basic problem is they're illegal. They've never been granted approvals, they're on some other person's land. In addition, when the highways are mentioned, the highways are partially licensed, partly not because there are still unresolved property legal relations. What would help municipalities, cities that would help all of us, and that would be one law on legalization of infrastructure, because it was also a big problem with unclassified roads when you wanted to apply for any funds or something in that sense. Then it was necessary to prove the legality, the legality of the road. Without it, it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164188	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Taritash. The answer of my colleague Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164189	I thank my colleague for the question, it is definitely true that our infrastructure does not have the necessary documentation, unfortunately parts of cities or large areas or almost in some cases, and even 2/3 of cities built without building permits because we lived in such a time that it simply didn't care about, but in order to get us into order of our unclassified road, we all live in some road in some street, which shows us the quality of our individual lives, we have to have some income. I just wanted to say, give an example to show that we are all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and those who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who are staying on our territory through the price of fuel and other charges we pay for the construction and maintenance of highways, we pay for the construction and maintenance of roads, railways, and that as a society we did not foresee funds for unclassified roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164190	I thank my colleague Baričević. Next debate, respected counterpart Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the minister with his associates here at the assembly. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, and I especially welcome you citizens who watch and follow us. I think you'll agree with me that there are no areas where a newer history of Croatia can be read, such as the issue of state property. The segment passed its several phases of organisational, from the Croatian Privatisation Fund, DUEA, AUDIA, CERP, to the Ministry of State Property today. All these changes in terms were tasked with the political structures that managed Croatia, and you dear citizens know who has managed Croatia so far they have created such an impression of changes in the name, the impression that they are doing something, and we see that we have little, little benefits from state property. We from the party Change Croatia invite you dear citizens to finally open our eyes together and to understand the bitter truth that of state property we citizens have nothing. In fact, what it is is state property, who is its master, not 4 million Croatian citizens of Croatia who have citizenship, not, but party and party structures manage it on our behalf. Well, you see, my fellow citizens, when you support us, because in the next government, we will surely, with your will, support you, we will return some things to the beginning, and that will be conversion and privatisation. Not everything and everything, but to disappear the notion of state property in this sense, everything has to be 1/4 million. How we intend to achieve this, not that HDZ structures before and SDPs manage taverns, water and you know how much profit, you know that we from Change Croatia do not speak by heart, I prepared this speech based on an analysis of our Committee on Economy and Finance. Do you know what the net profit in 2018 is for all 39 companies of the strategic interest of state-owned companies? 4.8 billion kuna, dear citizens. And do you know that at the same time only 5 banks in Croatia had more net profits than these 39 strategic companies. I repeat only 5 banks in Croatia had a higher profit of about 5 billion kuna and 39 state-owned companies 4.8 billion. So we see how it's managed. Therefore, I expect nothing from this strategy and the party to change Croatia and I will not support it in its name because it only lists what we know. There's no strategy, which is measures, which, unfortunately, we don't see here, but I'll answer the arguments. How many employees work at 39 state-owned companies means strategic, about 55,000. What else is interesting to say means for these strategic state-owned companies? So they're not being run, and they're not being managed in the way the economic profession requires, you know, there's no public tendering, they're formally dissipated, but who's running, who's talking about who's appointing management, the board of directors. Who's calling the boards of supervisors? Party or party in power. Therefore, we of socialism have not changed anything, my dear colleagues and colleagues. Nothing. Nothing's changed, and you'd like some changes. He's not with you. There's no change. So I invite you to the next election, dear citizens, to sweep up what is keeping us at the bottom of the EU and get rid of this misery of life, and especially you, young people before whom, meaning career, and you who are retired, retired and constantly promising, and this is the question of a certain payment of pensions at all. Let's talk more about the facts. Why the management of state property is so inefficient. It is only made in 2017. 4 billion 800 million kuna net profit. That's why only the dear God knows. Since the public procurement, setting up jobs, we've seen now what a mess there is at the Environmental Protection Fund. So we've got party party parties, look at one insignificant party of HNS, she's holding the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so the agency, she's holding HEP, she's holding JANAF. So, my people, is that normal? And not to talk about HDZ and SDP while he was in power. There is no economic profession, there is no professionality and quality, these are not criteria. Criterion, it's a key membership card. You got it or you don't. If you have, you play, if you don't, you don't play. You see, and that's why we'll never go forward until we get rid of such parties and people like that. Let's do some real estate, look. He says he has 6 222 apartments and 4 440 business spaces. So please, we have no idea how much these so-called so-called. state-owned apartments and business spaces, as used by individuals, interest groups that are on behalf of them, are state-owned, but they rent and earn them and thus make a huge profit. Well, that's what real interest groups are about, and no one can touch that, my people. Same business space. We change Croatia as soon as it comes into this situation, to make a new government, we will put everything in a public tender, a public auction. And apartments and business spaces. And those who used themselves will have to pay both taxes and compensation to the state. These are the measures Croatian citizens expect. That is what raises hope for a Croatian citizen. And we'll get everything else mixed up and settled. So, on behalf of the state, people were renting state-owned apartments and business premises. Why is it well managed in Germany by state property, is that what you were wondering? Well, because that's where the state protects its people, its citizens. There's intelligence there, business Intelligence in the business sector. And let's say he comes to the INA, he sends a professional to HEP and the state, he doesn't have anyone else's office, he gets the same salary as the president of the administration, he doesn't get involved in anything, but all the papers have to go through him, if any, he passes it to the central, and then the central solves everything calmly, not the next day or the 7 days in the Morning List, which has become the official vote of certain states that are in power. You see, but to do this, to make the state work, so let's not kid ourselves, people can't do it that they've been shaking and still shaking Croatia, from which people young people have to run. Why are they going out, educated people? Well, he knows he can't get a job for nothing, free of his grades, I work 30 years with students, that's what I hear. And what will this young man do? He's not equal, he's not looking at his quality, here, the students are up here, I greet them, actually high school students, he's going to be quick to study. They don't see the perspective here, and that's why I invite you young people from Croatia to the Second Homeland War. But this one against corruption, clientism and dealing with those who stole all of us's dreams and futures. In that sense, to conclude, what we are proposing, means choosing public procurement administrations, but it will also have to support, appoint, confirm the committees of the Parliament, because if it is state property, then the Parliament has to say something about it. That wasn't till now. Furthermore, introduce Business Intelligence, flats and business premises to a public auction, all to be transparent, and the issue of state property will be edified by millions to me and you and me, if that's ours. Let's change Croatia this way, I invite you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164192	I thank my colleague Lovrinović. My colleague Bulj called for a break. Here you go, buddy Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164193	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the MOST Club, I request a 10-minute break on state property, a strategy said by the minister. I asked him a very important question next to Lake Peru, selling state land, it was officially published at 88,501 square meters. I didn't get an answer from the minister about why it's being sold, but that the contest is under way. Not in the concession, but in the sale of that property. I don't know the reasons, and I don't know how much damage they're going to do at the biggest drinking pool of drinking water. It is the river Cetina, the lake of Peru, where 88 thousand square meters are sold, and the minister did not give me an answer, but he was rattling out, and we know what it means for the Cetitian province, the Dalmatian Zagora and the whole of Dalmatia, which means Cetina, which means Peruca. We know how the people react with the right to pollute Lake Peru, to whom they are sold, to whom the intent, who threw the paw, did not receive an answer. I'm not interested in preventing investment. If you say tourism, so are there sewers there, are they there, it's going to be like Plitvice Lakes? Don't do, multiply the damage on Lake Peru because the people won't keep you quiet, as you have whispered on my inquiry about a very important part. I repeat, Lake Peru is the largest pool of drinking water in Europe, declared Europe's third most beautiful lake. The Cetina province is a larger area of surface than Međimurje County, a larger area per capita than Ličko-Senj County. Don't play with drinking water. We'll find a solution. The people won't agree to your silence. Answer what is involved, and who threw his paw at that important land?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164194	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I'll give you a break by 12.45 minutes. MEETING IN 12.34 HOURS [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS]] Dear colleagues, colleague Maras and colleague Radin. My colleague Sagar is gone. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. This is a subject that is very important. Unfortunately, here, first in front of very few MPs in front of clubs, one correct debate, but a lot of issues that are being opened. So, I'm sorry, for example, that it's not a colleague of Goran Maric who was also a minister in the period when this law was proposed, or a strategy proposed by the Croatian government, and that he does not participate as one of, or not one, but the creator of the de facto of this strategy so that we can discuss what the intensities were when it was proposed and what I, as a representative and citizen, notice in the last 3 years of the state property system are three things. One that failed intensities are intended to activate state property. We can see this every day, go through the centre of Zagreb, see how many places are empty, see how many and how many jobs they do, and you will see that there are no significant shifts and there are thousands of places around the city of Zagreb that are empty and which people simply don't use. Is it because of unsettled relations, whether because of excessive and excessive rents, whether because of some other things, but it is certain that it is not because the problem of economic nature has been in Zagreb for the last few years, or because Croatia has been in positive economic growth and business since 2015, tourists are coming to the city of Zagreb, so there is room for all the locals to function, but obviously something is wrong, I would like the minister here to tell us why it is and why things don't work. Another thing that concerns me, and I have been told by many craftsmen when I was walking around the city is that there is no difference and what the state as a state should cultivate and tradition and certain things that craftsmen do, that there is no difference between what work is done but there is a difference in location only when it comes to rent and many of our craftsmen have been given an increase in rent in the past year by 2, 3 times which simply can't stand, means not one hator or can't be one carpenter who is a craftsman, who is extinct, but are very traditionally important for the city of Zagreb, monitoring these prices that go and on the other hand, we will turn the Lower City, or the city centre of the city exclusively into cafes and shops, depending on which is nature, and this is in some way we will totally shut down and this is one specific question how they think in the Ministry of State Property, and it doesn't make sure that traditional trade is something that it is necessary and how to support us, and to take care for the EU. On the other hand, what I have also noticed are large donations that go towards those who have significant assets. So every half a year or 3 months we've had huge donations from the Ministry of State Property to the Church that has a lot of property and it's unclear to me, which makes me feel that in this mandate, a lot more of these donations than the units of local self-government. Since Istria, Minister Marić has every little donations of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of squares of state property, and we know that the Church has very respectable property when we talk about the centre of Zagreb, again practically half of the Upper City or the Lower City of the cathedral of Kaptol is in church ownership. So, on this side, I don't know why the emphasis was on this particular area, maybe it was a policy, and maybe it's estimated that the Church can manage state property more efficiently than the Ministry can, so I would suggest, let's say that we might take the next minister of property to the person in charge of the property of the Zagreb Archbishop, if we already estimate that he could manage state property more effectively than the state does. And one more thing, which is constant, unfortunately, for HDZ officials, ministers, whether the commissioners, mayors, mayors, etc. is the constant that during the term of office that their assets are being handled multiplely, and then when you ask for certain answers you cannot get a single answer. So here, at this point, the whole of Croatia is looking forward to our candidate for the European Commissioner showing the tax solution that has established that she has excess assets in relation to what she gained during her term and the NGOs have also asked our services and the Committee for Conflict of Interest, no one can give that answer, and this is not about some small amount. It is reportedly a disproportionateity where the tax due would be one and a half million euros. Which means the property's over $5 million. So who can make a living in the public sector, counterpart Bacic, over 5m euros during his term of office? How is that possible? And we, instead of giving, are to remove all the issues related to it, we, not to give the government an answer but Prime Minister Plenkovic is also angry that the citizens are asking. How is it possible during the mayor's term to acquire such property over 5m euros and how it is possible to multiply your assets and not give answers to that question. I am convinced that this issue must be enlightened until the end, that a tax solution must be presented to the tax administration on the tax paid and how unpaid it is on the basis of assets acquired during the term of office in order for EU lawmakers to see who it is and how it is proposed in the EU Commission and from what basis it has acquired such enormous property. And I hope that it will not be the framework that we discussed earlier, which we have clearly shown to Prime Minister Plenkovic on the current watch that the facility is both HDZ and government and how all this is working together, where corruption and non-transparency are being rewarded, and transparency and answers are not being given. And it's very simple, unfortunately we are at such a time in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we are at a point where HDZ does not give a single answer but ignores Croatian citizens and I am sure that the citizens will eventually punish it, first in the presidential elections, and then in parliamentary elections. As far as the state and president's assets are concerned, there's also a nice anecdote, we all remember the announcement by the president of the Republic of Croatia who said she was going to move out of Pantovkat and that she was going to leave that residence, that she didn't need such a big residence, it was going to be one of the first moves she's going to make. It has been five years, HDZ has come to power and, of course, the president has not moved, has not fulfilled that promise she made at the beginning of the term of office, and the Ministry of Property has been unable to find adequate premises for its operation. And nothing to anyone. Everyone acts as if it were the most normal, HDZ with an even greater ferocity suggests this same president for the new president of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, she intends, if she wins, to stay another 5 years on Pantovack and perform her duty in the way she has done it for the past 5 years, and we have seen the culmination of mandates, this is now this last visit to the United States, the order of exercises, the order of boxing and the order of songs. So, unfortunately, in that part of it, we did not activate the state property so that the Croatian president could fulfill what she had promised at the beginning of the mandate, which is to move from Pantovica and that in some ways there is no, there is a smaller office of an unnecessarily large complex which has been held there since long ago as the president's office. So in the end, here, I unfortunately in this, in this strategy do not see any significant shifts. I'm worried that the property is not well managed, which goes hard on craftsmen and, after all, transparency in Croatian There is no such thing as state property management. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164197	Thank you, colleague Maras. We have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164198	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, here in the last part you mentioned Pantovčak and the transfer of the Office of Presidents or Presidents of the Republic. It is clearly necessary according to the president of 2 mandates, in the first package, in the second 5 years first packaging and 5 years moving out probably because I don't see any other moment. However, you have well guessed that huge spaces and also in your city of Zagreb are simply rented to individuals, and then they sublet in a much larger whole and thus create their own empires by destroying both craftsmen and entrepreneurs who would earn on their own hands and that is a fact and it is state property because it is city property, I believe the same, but it could be the head of the City of Zagreb for property... The minister of property is great at how he manages the city. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164199	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164200	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, I mean, the answer is very simple. The president has not fulfilled any of her promises. So, if you remember helpful announcements that Croatia will become one of the EU's richest countries. We're all witnessing that it's not like that. Unfortunately, we would like her to have done something to make Croatia one of the richest countries, if she had fulfilled her promise to move from Pantovic because she obviously won't, if she gets a new mandate, she will move in the next five years and normally behave the way she behaves. Usually, HDZ comes into position, very few promises come true. Now here's a challenge, who remembers one more significant move in the last five Mrs. Colinde Grabar Kitarovic, let him say. And I don't mean the stand-up girl. It's a story for little kids, it doesn't mean anything, they don't even know People, which means that word. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] One move Mrs. Crescent. President. [[I thank my colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164201	Comrade Maras, I thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Branko Bacic, come in. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Secretary of State. - Mrs. Crescent. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Branka Jurič presented our position on the State Property Management Strategy, so I should not add anything special to this, except that I would like to single out three things that I am also on behalf of the Representatives' Club when we passed the State Property Management Act in May last year, and now it seems to me that they also need to be highlighted on this occasion. In accordance with the Law on State Property Management, HS is responsible for doing what it is doing today, and that is to say that it adopts a State Property Management Strategy, after which the Government, on a proposal from the RES next year, should go into realisation, development and adoption of an annual management plan, so it seems to me that it is now time to remind me that this House of Government has gone on to amend the Law on Renting Apartments. We have prescribed this House Rental Act how and how, after the 5-year term has expired, how many protected tenants remain that they can, clearly with the new and increased rent now, live in these apartments, several options have been prescribed that the state will address the issue of the organisation of the possibility of facilitating the resolution of the housing issue to protected tenants who, after 1. ... In 2023, the deadline for moving out of those apartments expires. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there were several possibilities, among them, one of them was encouraging housing, so that through a project of stimulating housing at the level of local self-government units where protected tenants have their apartments solved through the project that residential issue of protected tenants. The second model was just the one which now the Ministry of Construction or the Agency for Business and Legal Traffic solves with real estate, it is in accordance with the Law on subsidisation of housing loans. At that time, it was also said that protected tenants in this case would have priority when it comes to resolving the housing issue through me the most favourable way of buying an apartment in Croatia, where the Republic of Croatia from the state budget, depending on the level of development of JLS, co-financed within 5 years of purchase of the apartment, would then come out to meet the protected tenant. From the data you listed in the strategy, the Republic of Croatia today has an eye, has 6 222 apartments, and if I am not mistaken, and I think that information is quite accurate even though no one in Croatia has accurate data, there are 3,000 apartments in Croatia where protected tenants live. This is what I am saying in the context of the fact that by the year the government is going with the Annual Management Plan of State Property and I hold that this is the moment that within these 6 222 apartments together in cooperation between your ministry and the Ministry and the spatial arrangement, which according to this same Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Renting Apartments is obliged to make an analysis of all of these 3 thousand apartments in which the protected tenants live and inform the Assembly of how and how and how the people, the tenants who are using apartments and where the renters are protected come out so that indeed after 1 January 2023 they would not find themselves on the street because for various reasons of property or some other reasons, the years of age can't be protected, so I can't even get into loans or are unemployed, and therefore I have a large number of reasons that the disabled people who are able to resolve their housing and are left with the money, which makes it impossible for them to spend the first year. The other thing I'm going to say is, that's what my colleague Taritash reminded me of, it's not there now, it doesn't matter so much, it's about her mentioning state property in the context of the need to pass the Law on legalisation or official law of infrastructure facilities. I know that the Central Register of State Assets cares exclusively about the property that is in the jurisdiction of this ministry, but it is necessary in that register, as it has been stipulated by law, that all state bodies deliver their data, and thus this ministry, delivers all the information on their assets and goes into the pooling of complete state property. In that sense, I want to point out, you probably know very well, but at this point, the Law on the Law on the Law of Law on the Law of All Infrastructure Objects, so the Airports and the Waterways and Waterway Infrastructures and Transport Infrastructures and Roads and complete construction on the Maritime Good Harbor, Riva, Mud, Small Bridges, etc., etc., I believe that it is through this legalisation of objects where some kind of relationship, concession rights of construction, or anything else will be established very quickly through this annual plan that you are talking about, is also taking care that the next few years will be witnessed by a very, very large intensity of solving property-law relations on state property. The fact that it may not be concrete in yours, but, for example, as the roads are taken care of by the Croatian roads, the highways of the Croatian highway, the maritime good ministry and the county and the port administration, etc., I believe that it is necessary to make sure that the establishment of that register is also based on that law so that it makes sense in the sense of managing these objects that could then come and be in the function of raising income, both JLS, so certainly and the state budget, therefore, that is another thing I wanted to say. And the third thing that seems very important to me, which we mentioned during the adoption of the Law on State Property, refers to construction land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, which at this time because of the unresolved, and many times already tried to resolve the status and property in the rule of tourist land located by camps or under camps, with hotels or below hotels and tourist complexes to get rid of it as soon as possible. It is announced in the strategy itself, I believe that this law needs to be resolved. The law has already been written several times, the parliament adopted it once, and nothing has been made by it, and I hold that the resolution of this land, which is unrated in the process of conversion or privatisation, would be a great incentive and wind in the back of numerous investments, primarily in Croatian tourism, because the current users of the facilities that are available and do not pay for land that is unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation could make a new investment cycle, and how and how it would encourage both construction and all that is based on construction and thus economic development of Croatia. Therefore, if something in my opinion should be a priority, then it should be precisely in these three directions, on the one hand, to solve the trauma of protected tenants, on the other hand to establish proper, proper management of infrastructure facilities in Croatia and the third thing is a major reserve for the development of the Croatian economy in solving this land that is unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164203	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164204	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, you gave an idea about protected tenants and the activation of state-owned apartments so they could settle down. That idea of yours at first looks correct and well-intentioned, but where have you been? Those 3,000 people at this point have 50% higher rents than they did half a year ago. Why did you kick them out of their apartments? And now as a benevolent HDZ says here, we're going to insert them, who knows when they do, says you see in state property, like these people have time. Well, people are in front of the raids, Mr. Bacic. Both in Split and Zagreb, they don't have time for your ideas to Mr. Minister and Government of the Republic of Croatia. This was supposed to be agreed long ago, but you had no ear for these people, as you have no hearing nor for many of the needy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164205	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Maras with whom you are easy to enter into a theme of which you have no idea is indeed astounding. So do you know that the European Court of Human Rights has tasked the Republic of Croatia at the time of your government to solve the problem of protected tenants in order to bring justice to former owners who have been unable to dispose of their assets for decades. And instead of your government doing it, you didn't. And now you respect those who are based on the Declaration of Human Rights by the European Court of Human Rights, have ordered this government, this government has made this account and balance between the justified demands of former owners and the needs of current protected tenants and has made one law that I think is very fair and this balance has been found. And now that law was passed last year, watch out last year in July and now I'm proposing to the government. that only law-solving is just solving through these apartments. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164207	Thank you. A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164208	It is evident that he was injured in 238, counterpart Bacic said that I had no idea about the problem, and he does not know that I was preparing and working on the Constitutional Court lawsuit together with the Association of Protected Renters to undo the shameful law you passed last year in the seventh month. And if you want to help talk to your best man, Constitutional Court President Sheparovic, maybe he can help break the law and get those people eventually They get what they deserve. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That they're not being driven out of their homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164209	It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I give you a warning. Let's move on. We will now continue with the point or individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, above all, I will, as well as the parliamentary representative, and also the mayor of one city, praise all the good that this ministry has done, its establishment and acceleration of the process towards local self-government units that our projects can develop significantly faster, and it is good to talk today about a strategy for the development of state property in one long-term, but I would really expect that in that strategy they write down one piece of state administration's work towards the counties, that also the state is considering giving ownership of space or areas covered by the construction area of all cities and municipalities by 1991. Now imagine how we can, all the cities and municipalities, do our own development strategies, even the development strategies of the greater order if we can't have that land and that area located in the center of our settlements, urban areas, cities and so forth. I think it would really be a reform turn that would significantly speed up the processes of both citizens and entrepreneurs and all of us at the level of the Republic, and this is how it all comes down to slow, slow acceleration, but not enough to make one really reform turns to fully accelerate the whole process. But what I'm not happy about may not even be your subject, but we saw now perhaps a week ago one of the information that has been in effect since October 1st, that USKOK is moving into the Badell building. So we obviously don't have any real estate that can satisfy one of these offices, the most important crime control offices, and now they're bringing in, going to the Badell building, we all know what they are and what the state's audit is about this Badell and the privatisation of Badell. So in particular, here as a parliamentary representative, I will say one proposal, perhaps the best way to move USKOK to Pantovčak, and if the president made his promise and moved out of Pantovčkak, would save 5 million kunas of state money that we plan to give to a private company for the accommodation of workers and everything else. The second is a very big problem are unresolved property legal relations precisely in state-owned properties, a non-harmonised catastrian and land-based state-owned state-owned state-owned state-owned and land-based state-owned state-owned strategy, so as we talk about land-based offices, increasing human resources because the only clean assets, the only clean property, and the harmonised state can be in function as cities, as municipalities, as residents, both business owners and everything else. Right now, there's really an uncoordinated situation, and there's no telling who's drinking or who's paying, and the property as such is still going down. Indeed, from this one presentation, I will once again apostrophe that move to moving USKOK into a private building, and especially when we know that one is similar, I will not say, nor apostrophe that there are any suspicious actions, but because of a similar process, it seems to me, a convicted former prime minister when the Ministry of Regional Development in 2009 purchased the same building from private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164212	We have a replica of the respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164213	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague, I'm afraid you may not know until the end of any information, Mr. Bandic is with the lady. The president, ma'am. Kolindom Grabar Kitarović has already agreed that with respect to the land in which the Presidential Courts are surrounded, that part of the land that is not actually solved is not owned by the state but also has private ownership, that this will be taken into account by the City of Zagreb, and that the City of Zagreb will take care of it and that the City Assembly will, most of the hands made by Club Mr Bandic and HDZ, make such a decision, but I am sure that in the campaign that will be chaired and when the President really announces that it goes to the public, will be very interesting to see what ideas it will be, where it should be settled and how it should be relocated, there will certainly be no campaign on what the president or president should be doing, but here the president is already negotiating with the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164214	Thank you. Next, and you didn't raise your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164215	Well, I'm not sure, you haven't looked.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164216	It's me, now you've raised your hand after your co-worker's finished. Okay, this one I'll give you, but there's some Rules of Procedure and so on, we can, we can pretend we don't know him or we don't really know him, but I'm asking you to behave accordingly. Here's your colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague, respected MPs, I don't know why you care when Mr Bandic is the concept of transparency of the Republic of Zagreb, so much transparency is the processes in the City of Zagreb that it's really going to be me thinking the most transparent process, as well as the process of assigning many city spaces owned by the City of Zagreb, it's known to be who, by cousin, godfather's connections and so on, so I really don't think anything spectacular that's going to happen, that it's going to be one in a series of processes as it has already added space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164218	The next individual debate is that respected representative of Kresha Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164219	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would like to remind you and the general public that your ministry has come into existence in the first place. It was created in a way that Mr. Maric, Goran Maric, was supposed to be a minister without portfolio in the government of the Republic of Croatia when he agreed, and then he insisted that he had to have a portfolio, so he invented that portfolio to be the management of state property even though we had a number of agencies, there someone mentioned a number of agencies that were constantly changing their names not for no reason, because they had complicated the business of returning, granting, sharing or whatever they were dealing with, state land, and then when the problems came to a peak, then they simply changed their name, let's move forward the code nothing happened. So, you were created as a ministry because of one man's personal ambition, and that man's name was Goran Maric. Meanwhile, Mr. Maric had to leave for a reason we'll probably find out in a year, two or three how it usually happens when it comes to you and your party, and you've stayed, and now you're basically representatives of the ministry, which is a typical artificial, unnecessary ministry, 20th in the government of the Republic of Croatia. I then said to Mr. Maric, whom I respect extremely personally as a man, I said what I will say to you, your only task, your only task as a ministry should be if you want the right of the Republic of Croatia to leave all state property to the units of local administration, all of it, and to lock the doors and tell us our job done, it's your only job if you want good RH. Namely, you are evidence, your ministry and agencies which are still existing and which were, are evidence of a high degree of centralisation of the Republic of Croatia as a state. If you had managed, not you personally, but your predecessors, or the people who were in charge of those agencies, if you had managed in a quality way, wouldn't have happened 30 years ago. After the transition from the socialist system to the democratic system, we still do not have settled relations, the ownership relations of the Republic of Croatia. I'm the mayor of the 11th year. Do you know that the city of Samobor with the Republic of Croatia leads more than 50 judicial disputes over the right to property of former social land? More than 50 disputes, so does that make any sense, so does that, does that mean that Samobor, of course, is it about other cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, does that mean that we are not the Republic of Croatia? I also said that at the state's attorney's office who runs these proceedings, Samobor is not the Republic of Croatia. Which is why we're wasting resources, time, money if you want, suffocating courts with things that should be meant by themselves. That state government, central government of state land, is that it's an incompetent state that way, so the proof is the last 30 years, is proof of hundreds, thousands of properties that have been unvalorized since the early 1990s, are failing. So, not only does the state not accomplish anything, but it's a cumulative loss, and it's hundreds of millions of kunas that we haven't earned as a state, and now we have to invest or sell these properties either cheaper or give in a concession, renting cheaper and all that makes no sense at all. And of course, you're moving on. I repeat, do not insult me, do not speak to you personally, I speak to you as not as people, but as an institution of the ministry which is absolutely unnecessary in the Republic of Croatia and is nowhere else and should not be. It's that you, in fact, have nothing to do and then to justify your wages, to justify the number of jobs you have in the ministry, to justify what you exist, and you don't have to exist, then invent a job, you invent a job in a way that gives new jobs to regional and local self-government units, a new job to the state's attorney, a new job to the agency, a new job to the parties in courts, a new job to the courts in the end, you stifle the system. For the Republic of Croatia, it would be more meaningful and cheaper to pay you monthly wages so that you don't do anything but stay home. Believe me, not because of you, so not personally because of you, but because of the Republic of Croatia as a state, which I hope all parties including yours, want well, you can't do this well. I know there were problems in the past, big problems when, say, agricultural land was made available to municipalities, so under some strange conditions they called a competition, so we had there in Slavonia where someone lost a pasture, so he brought a few hundred cows to the mayor in front of the municipal building, I know that there were problems, but ultimately, how to use a certain property, a certain land that is now owned by the state, the mayors and mayors know best. Strong studies you do may fall into the water if the mayor or mayor does not change or approve a municipal or city council change plan. So, you can't have that, with this in the end, this time indirectly, indirectly, manage the local environments, so give it to the local environments to decide for yourself, make it clear, as the state clear rules that can be done and how it can be done and how it can be done so that there can be no abuse and you tell our business in politics well, it's done and you'll be stars, you'll be heroes of this society, trust me, Mr. Minister trust me, 99% of people who don't know your name, when you do it, if you do, they'll know the RH for you all, you will personally be a star, a man who has shown that he is more moral and fair than the entire system and a man who will be able to choose the function he wants in Croatia's politics tomorrow and the party he wants. Here, thank you very much, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164220	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, we will give the honorary representative Miri Bulju, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164221	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the respected ministers with their assistants, here at the end would be the debate of the state property, the strategy, the thinking, of course, that all the positive things should not be rejected, but management of state property is very important from more aspects, mainly in terms of what is the greatest potential and dead capital that has been used and the trinity to pursue and of course it is very important for the development of local self-government since, as I mentioned, former spaces military, here is an example and agricultural land we have 700 000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, a large part of the state's property, unfortunately here from next year will be able to buy foreigners, but I don't know what the State has taken, is anything the Ministry of Agriculture that hasn't taken over your resort, of course it's huge potential. Of course, as I mentioned at the outset that we expect to solve key problems, and I mentioned one very important thing that is the current thing, you replied that the sale of land on Peru, the competition is ongoing, that you cannot answer. I am aware that it is probably the local self-government that wants to use this area for some purpose. However, countless questions are raised here, to which purpose, which is why he gave this equipment to preserve the largest drinking water pool of Peru. I repeat again, we have an example of Plitvice and what happened on Plitvices because of re-building and we have endangered this national park where the sewerage literally went to certain pits that go directly into drinking water. Therefore, I ask you to answer, I am only aware that you will say that because of the legal limitations you cannot talk about, but I am asking for a clear answer is here above all drinking water and we must protect this area, it is a bit more than 88 000m2, but it is a significant area, however, it is less important now that the area along the river Cetina, more precisely Lake Peruca which is chosen, declared the most, of the most eminent persons, the printing of Europeans as the third lake of beauty. So, preserving nature in this case is important, we have the maritime goods, we have a lot of resources, I've got this example, and I expect an answer for what's being sold and what's the point, and who threw his paw at it, so it's too late for us to get past the radar, if we get under the radar, and if there's any damage, then we're in trouble if there's any damage, and when someone buys it, then it's too late, then the state is responsible. The Ministry of Property, asking you for a precise answer, I ask you to check exactly if this is one lip resource, one significant resource, the most significant, because as we know in the 21st century water is the most significant resource. Also, in the end, I would say that the Cetina province, the province, once again, is larger than the Mediterranean county surface, by the number of inhabitants larger than the Lika-Senj County, the area has been forgotten, except for ministers who promised, I saw on the day of the city of Trilja, that is all... But it's not a fact. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got something stagnant now, but so many people have moved out, that's rapid, 30,000 people in the last 25-30 years. is less in the area. So we have, the only thing we have left of what a cetin plum gives, I said, 40% of electricity, hydroenergy in the entire Republic, means we give too much, and that people doesn't get anything back, they don't come back, we're not the enclave that we're forgotten about, we have to have even development, and the state property in that area is important to local self-government, and I believe that there's state property that I don't have right now, I know. which must be exploited and which does not need to be dead capital, which can open new jobs, but we have huge problems, I said huge problems are mainly a merger on highways and traffic jams, but that's another resort. Here I would at the end of the minister to answer this question, 88 501 m2 is sold by Lake Peruca, your ministry has called it out, answer me. It has given me the protected environmentalally largest pool of drinking water in Europe, Lake Peruca and the river Cetina, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164222	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister of State Property Mario Banozic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164223	Dear Vice-President, honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs, today with the presentation of this strategy I tried to bring closer to what, not only are the ways of resolving the problem of state property, but also what the problems of state property that we see here are a variety of reflections that were held during other meetings of the government, during other meetings or meetings of municipal councils, county councils, city councils, where many solutions have been discussed which have just touched the management of state property. It is the Law on State Property, as well as the Law on State Property Management, as well as the Law on Rentals, that is, tomorrow, the Law on Estimated Building Land, are the laws on which this strategy rests. But what happened in history is something that doesn't fit that law now. We could have just heard the question of Agent Whitey why is this... He doesn't transfer to local self-government units? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's exactly what these laws are doing, but the problem is that in a given period, when units of local self-government were registered on real estate, they were sold to third parties, and that's why it was necessary to pass such a law just to stop these processes, just to stop the partial decision-making or decision-making of partial interests. It was necessary to pass the law, it was necessary to mention which entities or actors should participate in this, and we just had a situation, which is that we have mentioned the number of cases being accumulated in the State's Attorney's Office. I've told every contract that the state's attorney's office is giving consent or saying it's not agreeable, so why would the subject matter be with the state's attorney's office if all these cases were neat, so why would that happen? So the necessity of this law is exactly what it's all about. Also what I said, units of local self-government have been working and that is also the answer to this question that we are talking about today, Peru, about how to manage a certain space. You mentioned the purpose here today in your speech, so you know, that's the purpose of T2, you mentioned here in the speech. So, when you vote on a spatial plan, you've missed your chance to say what you're not, that's what you're talking about today in the parliamentary representative, about the assembly of this area. What you missed the second time, which was last year when this law was passed, precisely on the amendment of the SDP Club was given not to give state, the Ministry of State Property consent to the project, but to the opinion. So that's exactly what MP Beljak asked, says let's make a mechanism, so it's a mechanism, it's a mechanism, so we say, that on a spatial basis there's this and that's for that, it's not for that. So we're just giving an opinion that... Bringing from a spatial plan may, not have to adopt, but again finally I say, the whole process of the state's attorney's office gives consent. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So even in this contest, I'm not talking about the competition for the reason it's open, but here's the third chance of 9.10, press the investor's hand, thank him for gathering courage to invest in such conditions as we're talking about today, which brings great mistrust when it comes to public space and him, let's give the man support to push the project, let him keep people in the Cetina region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164224	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Branka Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164225	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, when we talk about the strategy and solving a number of accumulated problems on state land, I would like to introduce you to a problem, namely in the watery background, the settlements of Clean Great, Mala, Gacellezi, Grabovci, there are numerous illegal buildings that were built on state land some 70, 80 and perhaps more years ago, the Ministry of Agriculture in the construction of now the programme of agricultural land management has been shown to be, regardless of what the land is conducted as a pasture, an orchard and similar can no longer be handled as such because it is known that the buildings that are in the same area and that it is essentially within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Property, so since it is a long process I would ask you to start with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164226	Thank you very much. The reply of the respected Minister Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164227	What I first learned when I came to the Ministry of State Property is that there is no general solution. So each object is partially solved and so is this one. It probably takes some time. What my associates know from day one is the tendency since I've been here for a year I really want to stay as the man who did something for the state, for all those generations that have left this country and for all those who will remain. Here's exactly that approach will be in... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164228	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164229	Thank you very much. Minister, you don't need to wash your pylor hands and you don't need to say what someone... I've seen it now so it's a tender and it's selling that land, it's not being given in a concession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that the purpose that local self-government Vrlika, probably falls under the Vrlika, I don't know what the purpose is. But I said you wouldn't, you say you already know the investor to congratulate him. It's not the investor's problem. The problem is how much damage the water will cause as a resource the biggest drinking pool Peru all these projects I think that you as the minister of property should see minimally because at the end of the day you will have to sign it when the competition is over and the damage will be huge if the project that has the unsettled problems of sewage or any infrastructure in that area. Believe me, it won't be allowed because water is the most important resource in the Cetina region and the Cetina region has given too much, given to this society its resources and will not be exclusively an exploitation field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164230	Thank you. Dear Minister Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164231	The damage will also occur if the investor is not allowed to invest in accordance with the business plan and other acts. So you should've thought about it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164232	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll continue to work on Wednesday 2nd October at 9.30 p.m. First, it will be the club's position and then at 10:30 there will be a vote on the points discussed, to the points discussed so far. Have a nice weekend, everybody. The session was interrupted at 14.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-27-0.u164233	Proposal for a State Property Management Strategy for 2019 - 2025. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the National Assembly Working Body, I am giving a proposal for that strategy. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes 78 for, 41 abstentions and 1 vote against the adopted State Property Management Strategy for 2019. - 2025.
