ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174876	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to tell a hot story about a city that's had an advent and it's got an advent, which has been named for 3 years as the best advent, and the story is actually called how the kings stole an advent or even more precisely how the kings stole an advent. I will not tell you anything new when I say that when it comes to the city of Zagreb to break all the rules, to break the rules, to break city regulations, ultimately to break those basic elements and rules of proper conduct and responsible management. Because a small team of people around the mayor, let's say, to be fair to the end, he says we need to speak to Mr. Mayor and we'll say that, he's putting the city's millions in private pockets. You have, say, Advent in the town of Split, the town of Split has 19 houses, the city of Zagreb has 230 houses. Who will make more income than an advent, it would be kind of normal and logical if it were the city of Zagreb, but in this case there is no normal, there is no logic. The city of Split will get a lot more in the budget from 19 homes than the city of Zagreb from 230 homes. So it's about the indiscretion, that indiscretion to the pain. Insolence when Mr. Mayor's friends steal from your eyes. When you really see from one side that it's a good event, but that a good event can't end well. Your score is next. The city of Zagreb will earn around 230 houses, i.e. 700 thousand kuna, and one rough estimate, those who have been given the opportunity to manage these houses, will receive 12 million kunas. Is there any job in this world that can make that much money? There isn't. There is no end to this indiscriminateness for the reasons that some of them will also receive a subsidy that they have had to manage their homes and give them to the underprivileged. My dear colleagues and colleagues in the city of Zagreb, that's how it is. So, on the one hand, all the decisions are played, all the sublegal acts are played, there's no house in the base, the houses are placed in the sublet. But it's not the end. On the team, you have to sell on an advent in certain glasses, in certain plates, and who's selling it to you? All those friends of Mr. Bandic. Mr. Bandic is our prime minister's coalition partner. Prime Minister Plenkovic liked to brag and said he liked to be in the league of European political champions. Ask yourself who Mr. Bandic is. I'm sure it's not the champion league. The president, Mrs. President. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic has no problem saying that she will bake cookies in which there will probably be some kind of tour inside that Mr. Bandic will take it to prison, so she is already absolutely visible, the fact is that he has to end up there so that she will help him. We have dear colleagues and colleagues two options. One option is to stare at it, look at it, say I'm paraphrasing it, so it's not worth the law in the city of Zagreb. In the city of Zagreb, the rules they prescribe do not apply, in the city of Zagreb, to the rules signed by Mr. Mayor Bandic. So let's all do it together, or you, which Bandic is a coalition partner, who you support in all of that. I do not see any reason why in this Chamber an emergency procedure should not be passed one law in which there will be only one provision, that the city of Zagreb is no longer called the city of Zagreb, but may the name of Bandicgrad and let Mr. Mayor Bandic do whatever he wants and how he will because this is not just a picture of the city of Zagreb, this is a picture and Croatia. And in the second step, Croatia can be called, let's say, Bandistan, and then let's end the whole That story, and that we don't bother anymore. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174877	The second is GLAS's Club of Representatives, honorary colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174878	Thanks to the well-respected president HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in a few days it was 1.1.2020, the Republic of Croatia in its legislation and in its EU approach signed a series of things and one thing that was related to waste is extremely significant, and that is what we have in our legislation for separate collection of waste, has committed to a certain percentage, 1.1.2020 is here, we have not achieved it, we have not nearly, some of the other EU members who have easily understood this before paying for large foams that count for 10 thousand EUR a day, which the Republic of Croatia will happen, we will have the opportunity to see it, but in an attempt to solve this problem by the basis of the Law on Sustainable Management of Waste is 2017. one Regulation has been adopted and that Regulation has been amended in September this year. That amendment made an application for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution and the law one 20 requests for the simple reason that the regulation defined against the law by different users, and also defined that the fixed part and variable part are paid, or no longer in such a way as to encourage citizens to actually separately collect waste. What does that mean exactly? The best example is as always the City of Zagreb. About how waste is being taken care of or what happens to waste in the City of Zagreb, I don't have to talk about it, today when you're going down or those colleagues who are coming up, it's enough when they go to the City of Zagreb to see what it looks like, what the tanks look like and what it looks like in reality. But what is important is the following, so the city service, or Mr. Mayor, has proposed one change to the decision where all households in the City of Zagreb will pay €68.00, which means Purity can sleep at home with its trucks, it must not go out, nor eagles, nor baths, nor baths, it will pay for one household of €68.00. Which incentive is to really separately collect waste, it's hard for me to tell if you're going to pay 68,00 kn, I've seen it in my household, say monthly spend 2 to 3 hours to separately collect paper, jars, plastics, take it to a green island that's full and you can't leave it there, so you're going to bring it back home and you're going to pay it neatly for it every month Cleanness 68 kuna. When you say 68 kuna it doesn't seem much, but when you add it up and multiply it by 12 months and by the number of all those who are registered households, one very conservative method, so where you took it very casually, the city of Zagreb will receive 350 million kuna in its budget. This means that, because Purity does not work, for what the citizens of Zagreb do, that if those who are conscious will really separately collect waste, and those who do not, will not now, because they will say why I should do it when I'm still paying for it, they will enter the budget of 350 million kuna in Zagreb. So you don't need to be surprised by the fact that Mr. Mayor comes out and says, "I'm the dad of an adventure." Next year, the lease of public space will be zero. Why? Because the problem he has in the city budget is constantly solved in one way and the same way. It reaches into the wallets and pockets of the citizens of Zagreb who then pay for it, and the figures in Zagreb when they multiply are large figures. Therefore, it is really inadmissible, for one thing, that a regulation that has introduced a mess should be amended as soon as possible, and then units of local self-government not to take advantage of this moment and reach into the pockets of citizens to solve their problems in their budget in the way the mayor of Zagreb solves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174879	Thank you. We are now going to take the stand of independent representatives, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174881	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to congratulate you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, I'll talk about presidential elections, how to run a campaign and the necessity to face the most important candidates. How much the political system in Croatia, the Electoral Law, how sick is the Election Law, is seen by this campaign to elect the President of the Republic of Croatia. The election of the President of the Republic of Croatia is part of a model of the existing Electoral Law and the political system that is completely reversed and which must be changed first if we want positive changes and finally get out of the crisis but let's look at how these presidential elections are going. Here, the prime minister and president of one party brought yesterday with a candidate box of collected signatures. Otherwise, that candidate gave up formal membership in her party because she needs to be independent. By the way, she'd be in jail carrying cookies to people who don't even know how many charges they have and you all saw yesterday, we all saw who it was. Now let's get this first part of how to collect signatures for the president's election, for the candidates. This shows that there are serious doubts about dishonest activities to be explored. Here's one candidate who first handed over the signatures he only collected 80,000 signatures in three days, and for the processing of every citizen that was signed we measured, all who were in the elections, it took at least 2 minutes with you not to talk to the man at all. This means that it took 160,000 minutes for the candidate, or 2,666 hours or 111 days, but signatures are not collected overnight. They don't collect overnight, they gather for up to eight hours because you can't see the rest of the day. So they would need them not 111 but 333 working days. The candidate therefore had to have 111 long-order stands in Croatia, and that is impossible for gentlemen. Some other candidates who are completely anonymous, they are not even clear how they raised those 10,000 and are right when Mislav Kolakusic says gentlemen must be investigated over the collected lists of all candidates. That would probably show another kind of organised crime, which wouldn't surprise us given the state of the country. And that's why the need to deal with corruption, issue number one, is the problem number one in Croatia. And I can only spend it on new and honest, honorable people. But what is most feared by the two parties that have led Croatia so far. First, the referendum and the second mass election. We saw how scared it was of the referendum when the campaign "67 is too much" led by the unions and how quickly everything was resolved. But even greater fear has been given to respected citizens since the mass election, over the past 25 years, methods, channels, media have been used to implant people's subconscious, the the thesis that the individual voice, my, yours, is worth nothing and that we can't change anything, stay home, there's someone to think of you, we need to stay forever. Repeating a 25-year slogan like this, they really disgusted many people with politics and they, these people good, real, honest, they stay at home, but it is the biggest problem of democracy in Croatia. The fact that an individual can't do anything is completely incorrect, on the contrary, dear citizens need now more than ever to go to the polls because they have someone to vote for. Dear citizens remain for 18 days to realize that we have to go to the election mass for the president of the Republic of Croatia and end the system of deception and political performances. Choose the right person to change Croatia and we have the right person. In this sense, the top interest of citizens is that leading TV houses in Croatia organise public confrontations of 4 candidates who have the highest chances in all polls. It is about televisions that have received concessions for public action and that simply have to organise such interactions to see clearly which programmes they have, why they are in favour and what they are going to do. That day we citizens are kings, our voice is not one voice, it is thousands, tens of thousands of citizens, I invite you fellow citizens to realize together that we are powerful that day and change Finally these delusions, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Shows and change Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174882	It is now the SDSS's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174883	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. My colleagues and colleagues, how many times have you had an opportunity to hear an apple every day, a doctor from the house outside. Despite this repeated message about the importance of apples for our health, we have witnessed that for a long time in Slavonia about the production of apples and its placement, it is insufficient or almost not caring. More than once, fruit farmers directly or through the media warned about the issue of fruit growing, offered various modes to protect the production of apples in Croatia, but no one heard or wanted to hear them. Although fruit farmers were recently well organized, production and sales conditions from year to year were becoming increasingly difficult so that their numbers were also cut down. Here, it should be pointed out that in Croatia in 2018 fruit was grown at over 32,000 hectares and nearly 190.000 tonnes of fruit were produced of which 49% were apples. At 4,700 hectares, 90,000 tonnes of apples were produced intensively for the domestic market, of which 6,000 tonnes of Croatian apples ended up on the Austrian market. Last year, however, the most apples imported from Poland were imported in Croatia, almost 9,000 tonnes. How does the problem arise? In the second half of August, we begin harvesting early varieties of apples, when our apples arrive and actions in shopping malls. Stocks break over the back of the manufacturer, the price crashes and the manufacturer is literally valued. Not you. The goods will be given to us by someone else. With our fresh young quality apple sold at ridiculously low prices is sold to customers and imported. The old apple, various varieties flood the trade chain, sell at ridiculous prices, and people eat garbage, literally dehydrated garbage. Chains are happy, good business, manufacturers are failing, and besides, if you don't have a sorter, a calibrator, if you don't comply with all the chain requirements, there's no way they'll buy you an apple. Controls are rigorous, because of a couple of miscalibrated apples they are able to return a complete shipment of costs and again bear it all by the manufacturer and thus create losses. I guess cleaning out the freezers from the warehouses to get the fruit and vegetable departments in shopping malls is an opportunity to travel a little, buy an old apple cheaply and place them on the market. And as it usually happens to be our peasant in Croatia takes matters into his own hands, even at his own expense. Thus, after he lost his birthplace for the orchard he made an unusual decision, the apples won't read because they don't pay the pickers, but they won't let them fail, but they'll invite the people to read them for two kunas themselves or buy them from the ground for one kuna. In this way he cleaned the orchard, secured such a placement, and in order not to have a loss he did a good deed. But then the situation with acres of planted apples continues to settle because of too low ransom prices, imports of surpluses from Europe such as Polish apple, dumping, blackmailing conditions in the buy-in chain, surrenders, warehouses, weather worse years with frost and colder shortages. And in the end, when the fruit trees don't see the exit, they start to cramp their own orchards planted with the finest varieties, and the defecated apples go into the heat even though the plantations could have been born for years. Just imagine how much a Slavonic fruitcake enjoys listening to the crackling of fire engulfed in the finest variety of apples, how warm it is around his heart, so much so that it's the same heart of a doll not from November but from misery.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174884	Before moving to the 3rd debate, I would just like to welcome the students and pupils of the elementary school of Ban Josip Jelačić from Zagreb. Welcome. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, come in. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174885	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today is December 10th, December 10th, 71 years ago a universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted in Paris. This is why today is the Day of Human Rights worldwide. 71 years ago, the UN of 58 countries that were members and who brought the universal declaration, 48 voted in favour of this important document that was real for several centuries, if we won't tell the whole history through different historical periods, but in modern times, from the 17th century on here, from the American, French, British revolution to its adoption in 48. After one of the scariest periods II. Holy shit. war and the most massive violation of human rights, such as the right to life, protected in most religions and most regional rules, and to freedom of equality, brotherhood among people who have been severely violated and taken away by millions of people's lives, taken away from the right to equality, to take away the right to freedom, to take away the right to brotherhood. If we were to bring this universal declaration today, as we have adopted the Istanbul Convention here, I do not believe that such a majority would be.../incomprehensible/... with such a majority being voted. 48 for, 8 abstentions and 2 for not voting. Unfortunately, I do not only think that this would not be the case in Croatia, but it would not be the case in a number of European countries, nor in one he considers... about human rights, which is America and England. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what we need to worry about. We should be concerned as a small country created by the idea of its independence at a time when the idea of human rights in international political relations was a strong factor that encouraged these processes. We should be concerned about the fact that there are signs in our country that human rights culture, human rights education, human rights policies are becoming less and less relevant. There are more and more of those that allow different forms of historical revisionism to create space for the same regimes from II. Holy shit. The wars that led to this universal declaration. There are more and more of those who believe that the people who committed mass crimes during II. Holy shit. The war is actually national heroes. On April 10th, you will be able to find churches in Croatia to serve Mass for Pavelic, but on December 10th or December you will find it difficult to find any church room in which to mark the Day of Universal Human Rights. You will not find, unfortunately, a political room, a few parties, a few speakers that will be dedicated to the subject. And the idea of a state and state practice that will not go from fundamental human rights, from freedom, from equality, from brotherhood, from equality between people and the right to work and the right to make fair profit, from equality among countries, is hardly that we can have a serious prosperous concept and practice of state policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174886	We are going to discuss now-respected counterpart Branko Hrg on behalf of the HDS-HSLS-HDSSB Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174887	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, like many citizens in the Republic of Zagreb, have a really beautiful adventure and I am sorry that it was not done long ago and that such a nice thing has not been done before. But I didn't plan on talking about it on behalf of the club. I'm going to talk about something else. I'm going to talk about family. I'm going to talk about working Sunday. I've been following what's going on in the media these days, following these statements, like many of our citizens, I've been following them especially since the KTC cruise chain decided that since 1.1.2020 they won't be working on Sundays. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Party, I have already talked about it several times here, we have had some press conferences, we have some proposals, and I believe that in the beginning of the following year we will open the topic and we will implement legislation, legislation, regulations, decisions that will make it impossible to work on Sundays, primarily shopping centres and those who will have to work to ensure that employers give them a very clear salary for their work if they want to work, of course. Everyone here today, in their presentations on behalf of the clubs, mentions, of course, what lies ahead, also mentions presidential candidates and candidates, especially the current president. So I will also say here that we in the HDS have made it very clear that we will support those who will advocate a workless Sunday and I am pleased that here is the president recently in her conversation with representatives of certain initiatives she announced, announced, said she supports absolutely that Sunday belongs to the family, that Sunday belongs to home, to the warmth of home. We are already like this, slowly in pre-Christmas time, advent time, and here we are all always talking about family and I now appeal here and call on all those who should decide and think that just in this one atmosphere and the time in which we are now and that we have a good time to think about how those primarily women who should be on these holidays are supposed to spend their time on the eve of the holidays instead of their children, with their families, at their home in shopping malls and serving us who are going shopping. And let's imagine, too, who we are citizens, who don't work at those centers whether it's necessary to go shopping on Sundays, whether it's necessary to go to malls on Sundays. It is not necessary, it is not necessary and we are in principle generating this problem without thinking about those who are there, who must be there because customers are coming. There aren't any big economic accounts. I talked to the people who ran the malls, the traffic doesn't matter for weeks, it's not big, and nobody's gonna lose anything. That is why here we will also open this topic at our meetings of the Parliament's majority and ask that changes of laws or new laws be made in order to ban work on Sundays and for those who work additionally pay more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174888	We are now going to the 10th debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u174889	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. For the past 40 minutes, we have heard numerous allegations, accusations, lies about corruption, and in the first place from the leaders, representatives of the corruption anti-coalition. Namely, they are trying to attack others by hiding corruption or inexplicable business within their parties, parties and corruption anti-coalitions. In fact, we are not clear and we are wondering, the entire Croatian public wonders how that members of the coalition do not mind that the candidate they support in the election for the president of the state, that Mr Zoran Milanovic is going into the campaign, to fight for one of the most important places in Croatia, for the president of Croatia and that he does not want to tell the entire Croatian public who his business partners have been with for the past 3 years until he was prime minister after losing the election for the parliamentary elections. How this has resulted in a multi-million-dollar profit on the basis of these jobs and contracts and that Croatian citizens who go to the elections have no idea. What are the reasons, we ask the question to those who support him, first of all to him personally not to, publicly publish to the Croatian public the information that they were partners with, with whom you cooperated, which were contracts, how there was this million-dollar profit and why you paid yourself minimum income, minimum salary. So, it is, it is, it is, it is data that we need to know and first of all to clarify and when you clear it up, when you get to know the Croatian public you and he, you who support him, then you can talk about others. Until you clean up at your doorstep, you can't clean up in front of.../incomprehensible/... and you don't have the credibility to clean up on other people's doorsteps and accuse others. How come you don't mind the president of the SDP getting a gift from a private company of 260,000 kuna and not paying income tax? And it's nothing, it's absolutely, it's over it, it's over it, it's quiet, it's nothing controversial. And it's all what other people do. Very interestingly, it's very convincingly acting by this, as I called it, corruption anti-coalition. On the other hand, we hear the government is hiding information about the road, about the official trip to Helsinki. We've been talking about this a few times as a party and the government has been showing themselves. And a place to determine that the government and the party acted on the good master's manners because none of them burdened the state budget. However, here he tries to impose on this party and the government, slandering how he serves public funds in order to make something... Therefore, this is an absolute replacement of the thesis and should finally be dealt with by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, not to come out of the powers given to them by law, and in addition to that, the courts have already warned her and we expect that the Administrative Court in Croatia is showing whether there is a right of commission to enter into whether or not to violate the principle of action of the representatives what the commission should deal with, rather than dealing with what the law has imposed on him, which is an exclusive conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177974	We've come to the end of free debates, so let's now move on to agenda points. The first is: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on crafts, second reading, P.Z. No. 749. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economy, and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. With us is the respected economy, entrepreneurship and crafts minister, Darko Horvat. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177975	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, parliamentary representatives. Before this brief opening statement, allow me just one sentence. We agree with the above-mentioned amendment of the Legislative Committee and thus accept it and will become an integral part of the final draft of the law. The process of amending and supplementing the Law on crafts has been initiated for the purpose of improving education systems for curricula based on teaching as a model of education which contains characteristics of dual education system, which has been implemented in Croatia in one way or another since 2003. This law also provides for easier adoption of knowledge and skills in vocational education. It ensures a high representation of the practical part of the follow-up in the practice of school and the economy, resulting in better employability of young people. The advantage of education for tied crafts is to acquire competences in the work process itself and directly. The learning process lasts for 3 years, and the total number of hours of teaching differs depending on the profession, however, all programmes necessarily include 2600 hours of practical teaching, so through 1, 2, and 3 years 900+900+800, which is mostly or partly implemented in economic operators and at least 70% of the teaching system in the economic operators themselves. Another of the specificities of this education model is that after the completion of the training, the student takes an auxiliary exam which now becomes a scientific exam, which directly demonstrates the outward competences and achieves an external evaluation of education by making a practical watch before a commission in which, other than teachers of the profession, craftsmen and masters are involved. In accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016-2020 programme in the framework of the basic objective of education, science and sport, an educational system that is in line with labour market needs is defined as a specific objective. Following this, the basis of these amendments and additions, by law, a new model of the law regulates the system of education for tied crafts. The implementation of the assistant exam, which is also renamed by this law and the scientific exam, passes from the authority of the HOK, as it was in 2013 to the amendments and additions to the Law on crafts in the section relating to the auxiliary exams, is intended to redefine the concept of the auxiliary examination, then align the process of passing the final exam and of the auxiliary exam which are now taken independently of each other and place its implementation in the power of the HOC. In particular, the auxiliary exam, which is renamed this law in the scientific exam, is an integral part of the final work and consists of a work trial that examines practical and theoretical expertise as well as the skills needed to carry out the business of a particular craft before a professional commission. As evidence of successfully passed scientific examination and acquired key and professional competences and acquired work experience, the Croatian Chamber of crafts is issuing an addendum to the evidence of apprenticeship. Provision of quality assurance of the performance of the scientific examination and external evaluation of this process by the competent Agency for External Evaluation and Education. Provision of quality assurance of teaching by forming an independent body composed of key stakeholders of the Ministry of Trade, HOK, HGK and the Agency responsible for vocational education, which will have the task of professional control of the quality of teaching in craftsmen and legal persons in order to prevent problems in the implementation of apprenticeships and advisory roles in terms of helping craftsmen and legal persons in the performance or exercise of teaching. In order to ensure the maximum impact of the economy on the compliance of qualifications with the needs of the economy and labour market, the Department of Department of Departments shall develop a professional curricula for the acquisition of qualifications from the systems of tied crafts. Regulation of competences for the adoption of mentor education programmes in the economy, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, whose implementation will be subject to the HOK and HGK. The programme aims to ensure adequate mentor training in an economy that will strengthen the capacity of economic operators who conduct learning based on the work for the quality of the teaching work relating to the acquisition of practical knowledge, skills and ability of students as part of the professional curricula to acquire certain professional qualifications, deregulation of the tied crafts for which the performance is a special condition of the professional training course prescribed. Persons with adequate secondary vocational education shall be allowed to register a tied craft for whose performance is required as a condition of a master's examination without the obligation to pass a master's examination if at least 10 g. work experience on teams or such jobs. This liberalises access to the labour market, adequately evaluates acquired work experience and stimulates the establishment of crafts. Initially, in the present case, 15 years were requested. working experience, but after first reading and respecting the objections of two MPs or MPs, adopted or adopted their proposal, 15 were reduced to 10 years. In order to contribute to the administrative discharge of artisan craftsmen and additions, it shall include the suspension of trade fees and authorisations for the performance of domestic work and secondary occupation. Removal of the Regulation on activities that can be carried out as a seasonal craft and the extension of the total duration of the seasonal rotation from the existing 6 to the new or new 9 months. In order to improve and improve the chamber system, the presidency as a HOK body shall be introduced as an advisory body, with an advisory and executive function, lay down a deadline for the vote to be called for members of the single chamber system body, and shall authorise the establishment of a Peace Centre which has been operational in the chamber for a long time in accordance with the law governing the peace of mind. The remaining part of the amendments relate to the nomotechnical improvement of the text, so we propose HS to adopt the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177976	I would like to thank the ministers, four replicas, first in line, dear colleague Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177977	Thank you, Honorable President HS. I'm extremely glad that the minister is here today to show that his craftsmen are important to him. The MOST Club and I personally welcome this simplification regarding the master's exam, and also that it finally started to pay off scholarships that today amount more than ever to craftsmanship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177978	You want an answer? No, good. Here you go, fellow Mrssic. You're second.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177979	Dear Minister, I'm going to ask you a question that's not exactly about the law, but it's very current, you're always showing yourself in the media as a savior, so you saved the Oilman and let him go down the water, now you're also showing yourself as a savior in Djura Djakovic, and it's hard for you to see Đura Djakovic's workers with the pain of seeing how their existence and their pride collapse, you promise, you promise, you promise, as you promised to do your job then you wouldn't do what happened in Đura Đaković, people don't have a salary, and you don't want to see things happen as well as in the Oilman and what's worst, obviously you're not doing your job because then what happened in Đura Djakovic, people don't have a salary, you promise to pay, but you't get paid, but I think you't buy the time, so tell the public Citizens and Workers of Đura Djakovic [[Intruder: Thank you]] Why are you doing this? [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Mrsic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177980	This question is not directly related to the subject, you know, but please... Comrade Maras, no one asked you anything. Here you go, colleague Horvat. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177981	Thank you, Honorable President HS. My kind of advice is to be friendly and respected parliamentary representative to Maras and Honorable parliamentary representative Mrsic not to help me because if they had helped themselves in the last 5 years, I would be dealing with creative things today, not with the legacy of what they left to this government. I promised to pay the salary for the 9th month, the salary for the 9th month was paid, I promised the workers a salary payment for October and the second week will be paid, so I also ask you, on Friday, the next Friday when you will vote, when people get paid, if you have any human dignity, just to apologize to the workers and the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177982	Comrade Maras, it's you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177983	Thank you very much. I was called by many craftsmen in Varazdin County after the announcement of the Minister that Hyundai there will build a factory, wait for jobs, I have been called by many craftsmen from Istria, Pula and Rijeka and says, "The Chinese are just about to take over the shipyards at the announcement of Minister Horvat and the economy has been launched, and now we will also in Djura Djakovic to come to the Americans to take over the factory, meaning all these announcements talk about the seriousness of the minister and he looks more like Hans Christian Andersen than the economy, meaning fairy tales to people and did nothing. But what I am interested in and what I see from this law is that the friend Ranogac, HDZ, the mayor of the Unsuspected Krapina-Zagorje County, has inserted a significant Croatian crafts chamber inside to justify its existence and this law is exclusively adopted to strengthen its position in the HOK. So it has nothing to do with craftsmen, it has nothing to do with teaching, it has nothing to do with HDZ and Hook. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177984	Here, answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177985	Thank you, Your Honor. I had the opportunity to come to the place of the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts in 2016 and found the situation that I must admit is for the people of the ministry and for those of us who came to arrange this system, because those 68 million kunas that you left us in the dowry of unpaid accounts, we solved these situations today and I am afraid that one day when such philosophy is reunited into that house called the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship, we will have negative trends as we had in 2012, 2013 and 2014. So, you don't dare call yourself Varazdin craftsmen because these people turn their backs on you because they know well what you did to them these years but these people call and know that Hyundai has entered Croatia and invested [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague.]] in Roman cars and will invest more. [[Intruder President: Minister Horvat.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177986	Time's up. Let's go more, we have one replica, colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177987	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you've taken this law with a lot of rights and I can say that the HOC has defeated the education system and almost suppressed it from this part of the JMO program. However, with some rights, obligations go hand in hand. My question to you is: How do you intend to prevent the abuse of students so far in the sense that they have served very often as a cheap or free workforce, or those prescribed by the low-paying law, very often have not been paid to them? Second, how do you intend to prevent teaching students from being used as an auxiliary force, so if they are educated as a cook to use or abuse, not to learn to be cooks but to wash the worst, black dishes? How do you intend to ensure quality after licensing the crafts by monitoring it? Those are my three questions to you, very specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177988	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177989	Dear Parliamentarians, very simple. Everything you haven't done as an assistant, that's what me and I will do with our team. So for this school year, we have already provided 220 million kuna for scholarships to students, we have provided the possibility that mentors who will educate those children to return one part of what the entrepreneur will invest in them, we will return one part of the fees that entrepreneurs will pay to those children who will be on the practical part of teaching and themselves entrepreneurs who will join in a specific system so-called. the dual education that you had the opportunity to tell a 4.5-year-old story, but you didn't take any concrete steps in this matter. So in this year's school, nearly 220 million kunas will invest in something that is the key to success, in connecting secondary vocational schools and crafts and workshops of the company So mine's a very good answer to you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] It's very simple and the answer is simple. [[Intruder President: Ministers, Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177990	You don't throw it out of the bench. ... Well, there's no in our rulebook that if you're not satisfied with the answer, you're yelling from the bench. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Maybe we'll introduce it, suggest it. Let's move on now, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? If not, then I'm opening the debate, first in line is a respected colleague of Nada Turina-Đuric on behalf of the GLAS Representatives' Club. ... Comrade Voter, I tell you not to throw it out of the bench. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You're getting a warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177991	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates. Here are a few words about the second reading, I saw that with a smile and me, when you explained the introductory law or other reading where you said that you had respected some of the remarks, among other things our observation, the comment of the club GLAS went in the direction of reducing the number of years of working experience for the status of the master or the possibility of opening the craftsman as a master for a particular profession, then we also cited a reason which is quite concrete and clear, which is that individual managers who run companies of several thousand employees, for this job do not have to have more than 5 years of work experience and that we believe that it may not have been necessary at 15 years of age, which is a terrible period of work, almost half of the total work force, are looking for craft interests, and thank you for respecting it even though it might have been even less, but we hope that you have consulted the profession that you have said that it would satisfy us. So this law that wants to go in the direction of facilitating the functioning of craft professions, which means, by itself, the opening of the crafts themselves and their functioning, of course, that we will support everything that goes in that direction, and this law goes in that direction. What we resented in our first reading is that, periodically, by changing the laws, the laws change according to the need or the influence of individual stakeholders, which is not good, and should certainly be avoided in the future. So if it's manifested in some kind of, several annual period, is it three, four, five years that something works in a good way so that it's not just by changing the current power that it's necessary to change or favor some and changing the laws in such a way that it pleases them. That should be avoided in the future. I say, craftsmanship as such doesn't exactly bloom in our country, there have been various attempts to merge here and this law in its explanation says that it is changing, because it is trying to satisfy the needs of the market and the economy with some changes and procedures within the law, which is okay to admit that parts of these proposals are going in this direction, so we will also support this law, but we believe that this law or this problem may be more of a problem that should be addressed by the Ministry of Education, but previously we should make cross-resorial decisions. So, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, which would bring about certain strategic objectives of the economy, and then within the economy, particularly important craftsmanship in terms of facilitating the position of craftsmen, small entrepreneurs who form a large part of the Croatian economy, which are currently in huge problems. For what? Because of the lack of professional workforce, or master. In what direction will this craftsmanship in general go further into the Republic of Croatia we essentially do not know except that we know that we want to encourage it. We did not quite say or know where this craftsmanship would be in about 20 years, which masters would be in those 20, the next 20 years will be needed, or which will be needed to educate. If we hadn't insisted on it in the past 20, 30 years, it's visible today on the labour market. So small entrepreneurs and craftsmen are in terrible problems related to labour. Somehow, it seems to me that we are still closing our eyes except that we have opened import quotas for labour imports, and we have not, in parallel, made it easier for craftsmen to get this same workforce from us probably neighbouring countries from the eastern part of Europe, that this workforce and adequately can be legalized here. Just because we said that anyone can come now, doesn't mean that we made it easier for entrepreneurs and craftsmen, go to any magazine of the MUP, and you'll see what it looks like to report a labour force that comes outside, beyond the borders of Croatia. It is something terrifying and it is horrifying in which the bureaucracy within that ministry refers to our entrepreneurs repeatedly with various questionnaires, documents, photocopyed and not photocopyed, documents certified and unconfirmed and which have a terrible job of making it difficult for a craftsman to fail 1, 2 or 3 working days during the month only to do these jobs, and as you know our craftsmen do not have secretaries, secretaries and secretaries who can do such jobs instead because they simply cannot pay them. So it's not clear to me, it's not clear to us, it's a notorious commitment to craftsmanship, and at the same time within some other resistors, whether it's the Ministry of Employment or the Ministry of Labour, that it doesn't work in a way that enables craftsmen to function only, they're not looking for anything but to function normally. And let's be quite honest here, if we don't set up this strategy and if the government doesn't take concrete measures to change it, that we won't, if we don't save the craftsmanship now, we won't save it in 20 years. And these things we bring, here's even what you suggest it can only save craftsmen in the long term or produce enough, based on this when we will have enough masters or professional workers as much as we need in Croatia today and which are not there. They are simply gone, and they are no longer in the first neighbouring countries, nor interested in coming to Croatia. So we have to deal with it urgently, there isn't, it was supposed to be solved the day before yesterday, not today. But of course, you're going to say that it's better to start getting rid of it ever than I've ever been, and I could agree with that, but there's no strategic thinking, and if we're going to think strategically about Croatia, then we're thinking about what it's going to look like in 10.15.20.30 and even 50 years ago so this wouldn't have happened to us because 30 years ago we weren't thinking in an adequate way, so today we have problems, even the former state that was socialist and didn't exactly encourage entrepreneurship, I would have said better than we thought about crafts and craftsmen, so here we have a situation like we have today. All have escaped from these occupations, and today these occupations are both well - paid and are no longer as dirty as they used to be, and as such, they are indignant in our society, but they are decent jobs where they can be well earned and for which there is work to be done. Therefore, I should introduce some, not even say measures, but simply those who run individual restaurants should organise services in a way that is truly at the service of our entrepreneurs and our craftsmen, not that they make their lives miserable on certain counters and in certain services and bureaucratic procedures, in fact, take away their bread. This is what we should first solve, and then, of course, the question of what I mentioned about migration or immigration and economic migration related to labour, where it is the only solution that can be quickly covered by this situation that we have today, means that the production of some new personnel in some perspective is at least five, and then up to 20, 30 years of schooling, how many educations of such people and how to educate them to be quality staff and to have enough of them. I miss that even though I say a man can't be against simplifying some of the procedures that have been put into this law here, and here's thank you for respecting our remarks. We will support this, but we are appealing to you as Minister of Economy to encourage you because we think that you should just encourage it, to encourage a little stronger advocacy above all strategic decisions, and then even these quite practical ones, I would say technical even, decisions relating to the slowness of our administration, red tape and the difficulty of making it difficult for our craftsmen to operate. And then, of course, and consequently dramatically reduced interest in such occupations because most young people think it's rather uninteresting, that it's too complicated, and besides not giving them the status they would like, which, of course, is not so, but we haven't managed as a society to rise above it. So as Minister, I think you can do a lot of work to promote such thinking of entrepreneurship. Here I thank you for being on this little sweet pleasure of ours that we managed to convince you in our first reading, or that we encouraged you to think in a broader way. Thank you again, and the GLAS club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177992	We are now going to a second debate, respected representative Branko Hrg, the HDS-HSLS-HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177993	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers with Associates. As in our first reading, our club will support this bill. We believe that it offers certain improvements in the educational section, but few only sentences related to general issues, the general state of education for professional professions. We all know that we have a major problem with vocational education, we know that for decades we have minorized professional professions, that we have devalued them, that it was a shame to be in the professional profession, that we were all focused on what you're going to do, if you don't go to school, you'll have to work, so that's how it came to collect now. So now we do not need to be surprised when we do not have children, young people who enroll in professional professions. And when we add to that the situation that we are also undefined, that this education system in this vocational education is totally in one, it can be said to anarchy, that we don't really know exactly what we want and how to educate young people, then we come into a situation that is very difficult of course today to enroll young people in professional professions even though they carry one real financial stability later when the trade ends. So whoever finishes the trade, whoever knows how to do something with their hands won't be hungry. But we all have to work more together to promote such occupations, to raise the status of these people, that these people realize that they're very important that it's very honorable and honest and that life of its own hands is the best thing that a man can actually have. These, this law and this introduction, so the news and improvements in the education system as it has already been highlighted in the discussions and in the first reading, and even today here in the second, will not bear fruit because simply our programs in the education system are not ready to implement this, I said it in the first reading, I will repeat it today, we cannot work in schools to make enrolment quotas primarily and exclusively in the staff that we currently have at school, and time is chasing, technology is progressing, we are not opening new occupations, we are not opening more attractive occupations, we are not changing their names, we are not adapting to time, and let's not be surprised that young people are not going to sign up for the builder, for the carpenter, for the carpenter, I don't know why not yet. Today these interests have more opportunities and titles and specialization and a variety of better activities, and in the second part of providing practice, so that's what's the main thing in the amendments to this law, so there's no way that there's no way that we'll get the young people enrolled in craftsmanship if they won't already after the first year of high school feel and materially to earn, to get paid for their work that works in practice, even though they won't in practice spend much more time than in some theoretical education, he can't become a master sitting in a school bench and bifling out of textbooks, books or Internet, anyway, with pills, he can't, he must be in practice, he must be in radio, he must have a man who knows that he'll be trained, who will educate him, and who will also, to whom he will be compensate in material terms, when we can be able to settle in the economy, when we'll be able to get into the economy, when we'll be able to get into a lot of youth in the economy. Not to talk about the other part that's waiting for them when they become craftsmen, which we put all the loads on their backs at the moment, that's the other part, and that's reduced, that press and repression are shrinking, but it's still too much. It's not normal for a little craftsman to go around a couple of inspections a year, so let him do 5 years, let him do 5 years, he won't steal the state, he won't steal the state, the state steals in a big system, the big system one click on the computer steals as much as all craftsmen in the Republic can't do for a year, and we'll crush them and crush them, kill their will to work, and that's the truth, ask the craftsmen, they tell you every day, it's less than it was, but it's still too much. And thirdly, in education programmes, even if they're academically, I repeat that from the beginning and in the first reading, even if they have to be included in education programs where our children are already from primary school, so that I don't learn from kindergartens to be entrepreneurs, to be craftsmen, to be independent, and then lead them through the entire education system, and not leave them to wait for a job somewhere in an office and think they've achieved a goal, they're not, because we have a number of cases that people who have finished the trade, learned the craft, opened the crafts, opened the companies, they're very quickly outreached in their own social standard, in their own personal standard, those who have completed colleges, have PhDs, masters, I don't know what, very fast, but if we want to have masters, if we want to have people who are going to have people who will be satisfied with themselves, and we know the old rule that only people who are able to be free and free people who want to be able to live in the country. The craftsmen must be free men. I ask that you really still see that this repression on craftsmen, to small entrepreneurs, to reduce these inspections, to reduce these controls, to reduce these controls, to come more rarely, to not kill them at the very beginning until they start working, so we absolutely support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177994	I would like to thank my colleague Hrg before we go to the next exhibition, please welcome together the students and pupils of the Ivan Meštrovic High School from Drnis. Welcome! ... I now call upon my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177995	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade of the HDZ Club will support it. Government of the Republic of Croatia a resolute ministry that listens to the needs, observations, proposals from businessmen, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, recognised the problems that they face on a daily basis, which is a lack of professional staff and poor vocational education. It is this law that seeks to bring the education system in line with the needs of the labour market. This proposal should improve the education system for tied crafts carried out according to the model of learning based on skills for independent work, adopt entrepreneurial skills directly in the economy and facilitate the transition to the world of work. In addition, for the purpose of reducing the administrative burden of craftsmen and natural persons performing domestic work and secondary occupation, it is also planned to lift the craftsmanship and the price of the authorisation to carry out domestic work and secondary occupation. Third, as this law adopts and amends, given the needs of the market for seasonal activity, there is a need to extend the total seasonal performance from 6 to 9 months and to abolish the Regulation on activities that can be carried out as seasonal crafts. In particular, depending on market trends as well as the personal selection of craftsmen, seasonal performance is considered not to be conditional on a list of activities. Especially caterers who are not able and ready to work all 12 months, especially with us in the coast, and our seasons are now getting longer, so over 6 months have not been able to work seasonally for more than 6 months. These amendments to the law will allow them to be registered as a seasonal trade for up to 9 months, which means that the remaining 3 months of the year will not have financial obligations to the state, to the employees and to everything they have so far, which will significantly redefine their business. When we see that in the Republic of Croatia there have been 86,000 revolutions, only 7,500 about 8,8% of these seasonal changes of law will certainly contribute to them in a greater percentage, but also to their financial better stability. When we talk about abolishing the regulations on activities that can be carried out as a seasonal craftsman, I believe that this possibility, especially with us in the coast, will be used by some builders. We know that more and more city councils or municipal councils are making a decision prohibiting construction work during the summer months. Now it's not just from June 1st to September 1st, but as the season is getting longer and we're trying to make sure that our guests who come both in the pre-season and in the season have as much peace as possible, so construction works are being banned, so I believe that even construction workers, as well as some craftsmen whose business is relying on construction and building facilities in the coast, will take advantage of this possibility and report their business as seasonally for 9 months. The Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts has started preparing amendments and supplementing the laws we are discussing today in order for the education system to be in line with the needs of the labour market. After completed teaching, a scientific examination will be carried out as part of the final work to directly verify and demonstrate competences and to achieve an external evaluation of education. This provides for a model of dual vocational education where employers become partners with educational institutions and together decide on programmes and registration quotas. These changes are based on examples of best practices in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. We believe that these solutions represent an important step towards a stronger integration of the economy or entrepreneurs with all processes in vocational education, which is also highlighted in the recommendations for quality and efficient learning from March 2018 and more adequate evaluation of craft education and adaptation of the entire sector to current market circumstances. All related to these assistant exams, the scientific exam, part of the final work and so on, and the extent to which the auxiliary exam has been approached, we have heard only 42% of the students and the changes that the new law has made to you has explained more specifically to you by the minister himself. These newspapers leave enough time to prepare for a new school year by far more dynamic, more favourable and more adequate rules for young people who want to deal with craftsmanship and who are chronically lacking. All mentioned finally connects the economy with the education system, which was also part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme. It is precisely in the Government's programme that provides for the taking of examples of best practice from countries that have developed a dual system of vocational education, which brings young people to the skills sought on the labour market and which contribute directly to increasing the productivity and competitiveness of companies. They are pleased to conclude that both the HOC and the craftsmen themselves have welcomed all these changes and additions, and it should not be forgotten that as many as 39% of total business entities are registered as crafts or in the Republic of Croatia we have active crafts 86.020. Of course it depends on the county to the county, for example. In my Sibenik-Knin County is the largest share of craftsmen in the economy, even 58%. As well as the proposal for this law in the first reading received support in this House of Commons, i.e. there was no vote against that proposal, and I expect that this final bill will also be adopted, especially since it has minimal differences regarding nomotechnical harmonisation in relation to first reading. It should also be commended to the Ministry and the Government for accepting and commenting on even representatives of the opposition of fellow GLAS Turkish counterparts and colleagues from HSS that the conditions for registration of a tied craft for which the exercise of the prescribed master's exam is allowed for those persons with adequate secondary vocational education and acquired work experience in these jobs to be reduced from 15 to 10 years. These changes are also in line with the government's programmes and promises where the private sector is thought to be the bearer of economic development and we are all tasked with building a stimulating, simple and secure business environment. Entrepreneurs, especially micro, small and medium, as well as craftsmen and exporters, are the backbone of the economy. The government committed itself and implemented a full tax reform and facilitated business conditions for entrepreneurs and investors, so here last week we had a debate and we adopted a 4 package of tax reform that further relieves our citizens, but also craftsmen and entrepreneurs for an additional 2.3 billion kuna, which means with the previous three packages total discharge for nearly 9 billion kuna. It has also committed itself to developing an education system in connection with the economy that we are doing right now. The government thus implements a policy to strengthen craftsmanship, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship from those traditional through tourism and agricultural and up to high-innovation with natural tax discharges. The past, last week in Solaris organized and 32. Croatian Chamber of craftsmen and tourist staff have also praised the government's efforts to relieve craftsmen financially and administratively, with special care for improving vocational education with support to masters, mentors, the amount of insurance scholarships for students, etc. Yesterday we could also read that the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Mr. Luka Burilovic highlights the situation in a private sector that lacks labour, and also through this prism stresses that the coherence of education and labour markets is important. He says tax reform circles have certainly helped the economy, but there are still many demands for the government in the private sector, however the good part is respected. He recalled that in 2014, there were 300,000 unemployed, today we have 100,000, and we have a major problem with the lack of quality labour. And, of course, it is also a particular problem of harmonising the education system with the labour market. This Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on crafts, the HDZ Club will support and, as I said, we expect all MPs to vote unanimously because it shows that the Government is the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry, that, to listen to the needs, observations and suggestions of the economics, entrepreneurs and craftsmen and recognise the problem we have on a daily basis, means that the education system is in line with the labour market, that they are, in addition, the administrative burdens, prices and crafts prices and labour authorisation prices are abolished as well as the introduction and expansion and activities, and the season from 6 to 9 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177996	Thank you, too. We continue the debate on behalf of the MPs' club, next is colleague Gordan Maras. Please welcome fellow Maras on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177997	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is certainly important for colleagues and colleagues to discuss both the economy and the crafts and the companies, and when a law like this is passed, to see what the intensity of it is. So, will he help the economy tomorrow to make it better, to make the craftsmen work better, and that all those who eagerly await the Hyundai factory in Varazdin can start doing the best they can. So we're all impatient after the minister announced that Hyundai factory would build that factory as soon as possible, let it go, or say, Chinese investors in Pula and Rijeka. So when they in the full segment are operating and investing everything that the minister has announced will be and, of course, he couldn't give us details because as a serious man he doesn't talk in public, but now we're all looking forward to these shipyards reinvesting and that the investors from China that he brings are finally functioning. Also in Djura Djakovic, not only do we trust his promises that the salaries will be paid, but they will likely, very quickly, as he said, and Minister Krsticevic is there to renew certain things and help the company also function. So all those promises that HDZ and Minister Horvat made to us, I would say something that we look forward to and I believe, I hope in the interest of Croatian citizens that we will welcome, that he did not tell fairy tales and speak without meaning, but that he had a basis when he promised such things and that after that we can also have a good Law on craftsmen who will then allow the craftsmen to be participants in these economic processes. Unfortunately, this Law on crafts only has one feature, which is that as my colleague Glasovac said, it is written in the Chamber of Commerce to increase the importance of that organisation and to return to the system of education in a way that I do not consider it able to carry out, because they would never give me the training system under the Professional Education Agency that the Chamber of Commerce of those years carried out and exams in the way that the commissions were to be completed in the way that they should be filled out. If it all worked together, it would never have changed. And now that the state has an Professional Education Agency that will continue to bay the way in its competence, jurisdiction to do these things, put it in just because of the wish of Mr. Ranogajc's HDZ structure, the unsuspected Mayor of Krapina-Zagorje County, who, unfortunately, did not become the craftsman, but fortunately Zagorec also did not become it. So it's good that Kolar stayed there mayor but the craftsmen still have to have a president who's only considering how to raise the price of a chamber contribution. And now that since 1.1 he's been an untaxable part of the salary of 4000 kuna, trust me he'll raise the chamber contribution from 76 to 80 kuna. And these 4 rabbits will surely want to take the craftsmen as well as from 56 to 76 three years ago when this untaxable part was first changed, or when it went, when the first round of tax reform went. So unfortunately, like the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the system of chamber in the Republic of Croatia is deeply infected with politics or HDZ, because one and the other presidents of these chambers are HDZs. So both Ranogajec and the crafts chamber and Burilovic who promised hills and valleys after Vidosevic left and did nothing but still people don't know why they pay a chamber contribution, and therefore hundreds of millions of kunas of entrepreneurial money ends up in that institution that doesn't give almost anything in return except to award certain prizes and for the sake of the event, travels around the world with the president of the Republic and hines some economic, diplomatic activity that basically doesn't exist. And let's be realistic about the Chamber of Commerce, this contribution I'm sorry we didn't cancel, unfortunately the mandatory contribution we didn't cancel, unfortunately there was a CNS because of its partial interests then, Mr. Vrdoljak stood in the way and we see that, after all, this co-operation between HNS and HDZ continued in the government which is now in power. As far as these things are concerned, we think, unlike my colleague Branka, that this law is not going to change anything, nor is it going to benefit anything in particular. I see it's within the law that certain changes are related to both the choice and the body of the craftsman's chamber. So he's telling you again what the chamber leader is thinking, or Mr. Ranogajec. He's thinking about how he's gonna make another body inside the craftsman's chamber, how elections can be explored. So it's much more important to them, or more personally, to him how he's going to keep himself there at the president's post than how tomorrow's chamber will function better and more effectively and deliver certain services that craftsmen need and which they don't have at the moment. As far as education changes are concerned, it means that when you see Article 24, you are essentially wondering why this is being put in place. So there is still a scientific exam in the organisation of the Institute for Professional Education in front of the expert commission, but now, of course, it is not only the institution that appoints but also the appointment of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. To try to bring the citizens closer to what that is, so that the HGK can then appoint certain people through its structure who then have some compensation for sitting in that commission and being red taped again and the system I would say these commissions and in this case the education of our students is created by some tool so that within the craft chamber you can reward your people and those who are loyal to someone and thus receive certain fees. So that's the only and only reason why the HGK is now pushing itself into it, to appoint these committees. Because these commissions are paid, so I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. And then when someone decides a ha, there will be a Pero and there won't be a Marco, so Pero will earn 200 or 400 or 500 kuna at every commission session and thus, and in this way within the HGK will buy the loyalty of individual craftsmen and those who are in structures and not think about how that chamber deserves the loyalty of craftsmen and the desire to pay that chamber contribution because at this point probably support the craftsmen themselves to the current president, I'm not saying that there are good chambers within the system, so I know a few chambers that work for me excellently but unfortunately at the state level we don't have that case. Let's say the Chamber of crafts in Zagreb works in quality, and these people have a slightly different concept than Mr. Ranogatec has that aims to get into the Parliament or become mayor and these people work in a way that they try as much activity as possible to make craftsmen feel that work or usefulness of their craftsmanship. So again, I wanted to show on just one plastic question why the HGK has now been put into law in this case, in order to, as they would call it, what it would call the committees before which the scientific exams take place. On the other hand, when you see the connection and the judicial, or judicial authorities, I would say some of the obvious conflicts of interest that are happening. Here I'll say here means that the President of the Court of Honor of the Croatian Chamber of crafts is a gentleman named Kontrec, and probably a lot of you don't even know who this gentleman is, but when you see that it's the vice president of the Supreme Court and when you see that it's the vice president of the DIP, then the State Election Commission is asking you a logical question. So how does a man put himself in an addictive position because he certainly doesn't volunteer as president of the HoC Court of Honor because there must be some fee there, how is it brought into a dependent position by people who are involved in politics? In particular, from the mayoral candidate in the Krapina-Zagorian County of Mr. Ranogajc. And now we should believe that people, such as Sessa, appointed by the president of the Republic of Croatia, such as Kontrec, appointed by Ranogaec, are the candidate of HDZ for the mayor of Krapina-Zagorje County, who make up the composition of the DIP that they are independent and work in the interest of not one party, HDZ in this case but in the interest of all who compete in the elections, i.e. to share justice in a way that they are independent of anyone. So it's not like that. So if the Mr. who is a member of the DIP is appointed by HDZ candidate Ranogajc, to be the President of the Court of Honor of the HOC and for that he is likely to receive compensation, he is not independent, and I find it odd that these gentlemen bring themselves into those positions at all and thus show that all structures, and also call institutions, are interlocuted with interest circles. Unfortunately, I am not far from what Mr Nobilo said the other day that some parts of Croatian institutions should simply be built from the beginning, that they can no longer be repaired and that part should be spoken of. So everything's been transferred and unfortunately people don't have the elemental trust in the independence of individual institutions because if the vice president of the DIP has an addictive position towards the mayor of the former HDZ in Krapina-Zagorje County, then how can it guarantee his position and his independence towards everyone else in the process. Not to mention the incredible situation that one of the original powers of the president is the appointment of Mr. Sessa and normally that Mr. Sessa will not react in any situation that is speculative about Mrs. Sessa. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, even when we talk about the use of state resources for the campaign by Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, because people come to the rally during their working hours, which I warned him about here at HS, will never react and believe me, Mr. Sessa to Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic because he is also placed on it, as he would say, tied up, lashed out, and unfortunately addicted to it. And until we change that concept, until we change people's name in a way that they depend on someone and they have to be grateful for it, but because they have their own attitude, character, and they're independent of anyone who's in the political process, so far we're not going to be well. And on the other hand, why can't we vote for this law, because this law was made exclusively to position the HOC more strongly in the very law in the process of education, in order to, as I say, allow certain tools to appoint people in committees, to do programs, to sort of determine the fees that these people will have and on the other hand to control the overall process that they are interested in, which is why they were changing bodies. They are interested in at least this part that is related to Mr. Ranogajec, all they care about is how to keep themselves in that position as president of the HOK until he jumps into some other political, for them, position, such as HS or mayor of some county or what he thinks he might do better for himself and not for others. So on the other hand, we cannot support this law and we must warn the citizens that this is not about any improvement that goes for craftsmen but only for one narrow part of people who are involved in craftsmanship because of politics and politics, and not for craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177998	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is my colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go, colleague Curaj, in front of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u177999	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, I'll try to hold on to the ducks why we're changing this, which, for which, for which reason, and for what purpose. If I say.../incomprehensible/... first of all that I have, we have recorded the problem of involving the economy's representatives in carrying out these scientific exams, or now scientific exams, that in fact the institutions that have been assigned to the task of vocational education do not encourage students to be placed, and then the percentage is said that 42% of the students who have completed the third grade or secondary school professions for tied crafts have joined the assistant exam. So in the craft we have tied up, those who require you certain master's knowledge or exactly what we're talking about and free crafts that anyone can perform and register. What is to me when it is so unrelated, perhaps even for this law itself, is not clear in our system, which is that you are looking for certain skills to carry out activities, whether it is even for serving meals and drinks, so if you haven't finished the catering school, you have to do it specifically, without talking about some mastery interests where you are looking for certain competences and that's exactly what we're talking about here and today about these competences, passing these exams. But then, on the other hand, we look at it, it's based on d.o.o., and even J.D.O.O. and registers all activities that exist. And nobody's asking you what, how, why and why. I'm not saying that this doesn't have any purpose, I think it should be, but when we look that it can be bypassed so that a person who doesn't have a certain competence can register a certain activity and not have any man to do it, or an employee, then I wonder why someone would start it or what we help craftsmen do, to support that entrepreneurial spirit, self-employment first of all when we talk about craftsmanship. Because here we know that it is the craftsmen who carry the whole activity, so they don't have any ownership shares from which they make their incomes from ownership or capital rather than from work. It's the meaning of the crafts and the big difference between the crafts and the d.o.o. However, this d.o.o. Especially j.d.o. He can do whatever he wants and no one asks him anything, including hospitality, mastery, anything, and in the craft, and for each related part of the profession, he asks for specific certificates or certain mastery exams, etc. And that's where we came today just because a little bit of this change, I don't watch SDP go back there, HDZ returns to you, so to me this more of these ball transfers, it's only important that the data shows and as more goes in favor of our economy, our craftsmen specifically and ultimately citizens. What's important to me here, I haven't been able to find anywhere in the law to create some extra financial burdens, which is extremely important, so it's not prescribed, it's just that. According to what I've seen, we have certain discharges, so thank God we finally realized that in some modern age and that I commend the Ministry that when we abolished the craftsmanship as the one that was the traffic permit with the nylon, so we gave it a sheet, so now we're here and we're done at the end of 2019 that we don't really have to propose when we're doing something the same craft is still something in the system, if you're getting it from the e-craft system, then why would we have to stick it every time and it's good that it's put in. I think it's one way to go not now and I commend both the minister and his efforts and everything, but we could do it in office here's a colleague who was before me, I don't know what he wasn't, but there's probably other reasons. So it's absolutely good that we're administratively relieved and disbursed by our businessmen, primarily financially, so that no such different parafiscal burdens have to be paid. Also, here is another one of the financial ones, the setting of the price of the approval to perform domestic work or secondary occupation because it is no longer a printed form but created from the application, we enter this modern part, we finally use all the benefits of the technology that goes. Maybe it was a long time ago, maybe, but that doesn't mean we don't have to compliment it now and say it's there and it's a good thing. Because I think every single piece of paper we have today when we go into one administrative body, another state-owned, so those malts are asking us for documents from the other, and they're all like they're supposed to be networked through the OIB, so that's it, then we're just being this funny ourselves. But as for the most important, most important changes, and that's precisely about passing scientific exams right now, I think it's good, and that's a colleague who said that we're looking for a bigger role of the economy itself, to activate them, except we're dispensing them, and I'm not going to be here under some influence from my colleagues before me, so let's talk about some fees. What is important to me is that neither students or craftsmen have any financial cost, and they have greater motivation to gain some experience and knowledge first and foremost through the follow-up, in fact, the crown of something that we started by reforming education, which is a model of dual education in which we want as much as possible in this sector where the market is now so that each master of gold pays to put emphasis on the economy, on the very or the craftsmen, or the people themselves, who are doing these particular occupations, that there is already a lot to do and learn through the work themselves. And not that we have those practices where you have a practice guy, and you sign him for being, and all he did was meo and cleaning, and it was an honor to the exceptions, and that was a hell of a show for us. So he did his practical part of the work, and about what he did or didn't do there, it depended on the persons of this and every honor and to those who honestly and zealously understood and did it, but it was left to them or the case, not the system. With this connection, it has an absolute better impact on the state of the labour market, on the quality of the educational system, and in fact that these people, by completing their education, will be ready for this labour market and retailers can also actively contribute to their employer or themselves if they decide to go into self-employment or founding. Therefore, it should not be mentioned that reforms and vocational education provide more than one billion kuna from EU funds for the centre of competence precisely where this will all be linked and I mean what is very important and that is also said in the opening statement. This integration simply, the labour market with the education system where the consent of the Ministry of Economy or the competent ministry will now be sought tomorrow to enroll students in programmes for the acquisition of qualifications for tied crafts. Thus, by ensuring the direct impact of the economic sector on the registration structure, or the market needs, not only of the current ones, but also of the future ones, are monitored. I also see that the ministry has accepted the proposal, which is also mentioned, that people who have only secondary vocational education and do not have a master's exam, but they recognize their skills, their experience and even decreases from 15 to 10, and I also welcome that because it is precisely liberalizing market access and is worth of course that acquired knowledge and is being stimulated in fact by the establishment of the crafts of these people who have worked with certain employers, gained experience, they have not agreed, but they are no longer asked to do so now. Something similar has already existed in certain other professions, if I am not mistaken that accounting services have recognised experience and not just acquired cooks. So you could if you had a certain number of years of experience, I think the same 10 years if I'm not wrong about accounting power and you could and you could start a craft without some qualification and specifically professional, so if you're doing it with high school, you can get a craftsmanship for that. So what I would like only in the perspective that when we talk about the Law of Turning a little bit, that is, those are the obligations that tell us about helping family members to a craftsman, therefore to a craftsman. Thus far, the Law on crafts is allowed to do so, and they can actively help if they are members of the same household or household. If the wearer turns around eventually getting married, moving away, meaning their parents, more her parents and his, however, won't, can't help it, gets something that might make it easier for our craftsmen to work more easily. So it's just something that isn't now covered by these changes to start thinking in that direction. I say, in conclusion, I think that the aim of this must be an educational system that is consistent with the labour market to be administratively relieved, that our economies are financially disbursed, and that we go into that recognition and one more flexible way of education where we don't have something that's woven, carved into stone and that can't be changed but that we can change things how this market requires us and that we can even anti-cipe what's going to be there doesn't really be some great prophesy that we know how the market is going to behave in the next 3-5 years and that there's going to be needs. I think it's crucial and that with this we'll get it and of course the HNS club will support everything that goes towards liberalisation, towards removing administrative burdens and especially financial and not creating new financial burdens and that it's absolutely absolute to support it. And I think with this, if we get from both 42% and a little more people who will be activated, a little more craftsmen, a little more of those who will carry out these activities that we have already done a lot of things, but we don't need to stop there, but we should, of course, continue to follow the needs of the market, co-operate with education and further, further discharge and use, finally, and the benefits and technologies that we already have, we can forget about walking on the counters and taking various papers from one institution to another. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178000	Thank you, too. Let's now welcome our Istrians, students and students of Anton Stifanić's Tourist and Restaurant School from Poreč, welcome to the Parliament. We continue the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the next colleague is Tomislav Žagar in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics. [[Applause.]] Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178001	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, students and their teachers. I will try, given that it is a second reading in a brief debate, to point out what was the challenge and in the first reading, in the explanation sent to the second reading, I see that it was referred to but I cannot say that I am not satisfied with that answer because in principle I can support it, however, there is another questionnaire that I would like to resolve. In fact, many of the solutions proposed by these legal amendments are being welcomed. And Col. Curaj was talking about ending the craftsmanship, about extending the deadline for seasonal work, these are things that will certainly enable the economy to compete better. Also when we talk about a system of education and here, although it is on the agenda of the Law on crafts, we are de facto talking about a system of education, the education of a group of students who are educated for professional professions, specifically here in this case for tied crafts. When we talk about the system of education always, at least that's what it seems to me, we must always think about the horizontal and vertical passing of that system. In fact, at first, it may not seem to have anything to do with this law, but I'll tell you a story that's true. The man graduated from a three-year vocational school, after which, due to a number of circumstances that are in the Croatian economy today, he decided to enroll the Police Academy to end up a police officer. In order to achieve that, he had to pass the fourth degree. He wrote it down, so-called. In the evening school or at the Open School, schooling ended up commercially. After that, he attended, as it's already called, a course or, I don't know what the exact name of the Police Academy is, ended up being a police officer. However, as he was educated at that time, he met the girl, he got married, and then he, he refused to go to the place that the ministry was offering him at that time, I think he should have left, left the place of residence, went to Pula, and then he broke the contract, paid his own education because that's what the contract said. And then the situation comes that the ministry is now calling a tender, there are 1,500 cops missing, and in that contest it says that they can apply to the police who retired or the ones who quit. Since he hasn't quit or retired, he can't even answer this contest. The whole story actually speaks of the Croatian administration and everything that is pointless in the Croatian administration. And in this context, I welcome these legal solutions with colleagues from the club if it will enable better or easier, more accessible labour market for all those young people who will finish their education tomorrow. In other words, the aim of this law as well as any, as well as any other law relating to education, which tells us the curriculative reform, otherwise little and twisted, is the aim of young people to work in accordance with their abilities, skills, skills and skills as well as to be at the highest possible level during their education and skills, skills and skills. And in that sense, it certainly needs to be welcomed. We could ask ourselves, should today's student in the professional profession, say for a plumber, learn how to cut a thread on a steel pipe? Is that what he's supposed to do today? It is a very or small prospect that during his work he will encounter such a job that he will have to cut pipes in view of today’s technologies and since the pipeline system, when we talk about the plumbing and other systems, can practically work in a tie. You can really do these systems in a tie today. There are very advanced systems that make it possible, compounds that, in fact, are cold, whether they're warm, they're accomplished, they make it possible. However, the opinion of us who were once in the education system and those who are today should, of course, learn, just as students should be taught to write by hand even though they are more so today, we could say that they are not necessary. There, a little longer introduction to the point. I've had my first reading with it, and we have a certain explanation. I'm not, in my opinion it's still not good for the Ministry of Economy to be in charge of making curricula for professional professions. It's not, it's just not a good solution. No matter how much the Ministry of Science and Education is involved, but it should be crucial. The truth is, it's said here that there is an agency representative, but I think we should still have the Ministry of Science and Education because in practice problems can arise precisely because of these reasons that I just spoke about and technology is progressing. For the Republic of Croatia, of course, it is good that technology is progressing, but the labour market can't affect what we are going to do or how we young people are going to educate in the future because the labour market always solves the current problems, the labour market is focused on what is now missing. Employers now lack labour, they now need welders, they now need people who need to work, and the Ministry of Science and Education, there, I believe, we all agree, must look to the future, must look at what will be necessary in the future. And there, in this bill of law, I didn't see it, I mentioned, of course, the HOC through its representations by county. There I always miss those legal proposals of the local self-government unit are actually founders. How do they affect both the school network and everything we need today? So, here, in my area, my counties have been educated for years by wooden technicians, and listen, in the woods can't work countless or excessive numbers of wooden technicians. Someone's got to take care of it. When you ask the ministry, they say it should be determined by the county, if you ask in the county, they say it is in agreement with schools and so now the Ministry of Economy. I have no doubt about it, Minister, you have stated in this that you have talked to all potential stakeholders, as you say today, and I have no doubt that it was, but the Ministry of Economy cannot solve problems in Croatian education or it is competent. It can solve problems in entrepreneurship, you are also trying through this law, but the Croatian educational system must be solved by the Ministry of Science and Education and that is ultimately the primary goal of the Ministry of Science and Education. Everything we know about pedagogy as science in its disciplines as a method, didactics was somehow left behind today. When you say curricula reform, then you can think of anything and nothing. But in the basic teaching things that our teachers know, believe me, our teachers know, they need to be able to do that, and this collaboration with the economy, of course, must go the initiative of the Ministry of Economy, but not in such a way that the Ministry of Economy imposes that cooperation. In the light of the law, it was said that it was not enough, that there was insufficient interest, the motivation of the businessmen to participate and on this side I welcome, such solutions, but then, what does the Ministry of Science and Education do? And it must, in its own way, participate in mobilising and economics, and then through cooperation with the Ministry of Economy to bring legal solutions. We'll see how in practice this solution, how it will come to life. The scientific exam, that, don't think that we have something against it, a scientific exam that will replace the current assistant exam that will also be, that I last said, it seems to me that part of the external evaluation of the entire teaching and learning process and what we like to say, learning outcomes, that's good, but as much as it really takes for the economic picture, today's economic picture of the Republic to form its education system, it's questionable from many points of view and to say, most of all, we're a tourist country, so come on, if we decide to be top waiters, the best in the world we can decide then, but that's not the end goal of this society and the development of this society. Of course, I'm in the middle of it right now, this isn't, this isn't like this, but it's certain that the Ministry of Science and Education has to think about what the Republic of Croatia is actually going to do tomorrow and what technologies it's going to be dealing with, so to speak, to catch up with developed countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178002	Thank you, too. We're going on with the representatives' clubs. Next is counterpart Ivica Misic in front of the Labour Party's club of representatives and solidarity and independent representatives. Here's a colleague of Misic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178003	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. When it's a matter of craftsmanship and craftsmen, I can say a lot as a man I do business with in my life. The problems of craftsmen are constant, it wasn't yesterday, today, tomorrow, it's always a problem, and especially our problem came after the war when professional schools were neglected, when certain professions were not produced, when this country ran out of masters, without certain people where simply craftsmen come into trouble today because they don't have qualified and real workforce. Of course craftsmen play a big part in the country. Education hasn't done any of the work it's taken over the past 25 years, and here's something going on today, and that's a very good thing. We craftsmen educate young people, we give them a chance to go into the world, we give them our workshops, our knowledge, we end up making people who will be later craftsmen, they'll be good masters and that's the truth to say that in this country we have such good ones, but that's one hard way, I have to admit. In order for you to be a craftsman, you must have a lot of courage, knowledge, denial, your family must support you, you must not be boastful to pass craftsmanship because boast usually refuses and comes to later problems. Unfortunately, in this country, there were a lot of people who and my colleagues who I knew had failed as craftsmen, sometimes the truth is someone and society, it's some craftsmen or entrepreneurs who didn't pay them what they did so they had to go into trouble, but it's also the state and the institutions that follow us craftsmen, who see who does what, to see how this craftsman does whether he pays the obligations, whether he pays taxes, whether he pays everything he should pay. However, it is not a problem for a craftsman or to pay what needs to be paid and to pay a good salary to his worker, which is the basic thing, and what we all who have such things want to give, but gentlemen today you see what the situation is like, that all here teachers want good wages, tomorrow the union will already raise customs duties, everybody gets up, everybody wants good wages. How do we pay if we don't have an economy, if we haven't put the economy on its right feet? For the first time this year or last year, we had a surplus in the budget, as soon as it heard he had a surplus, everyone jumped, give us the money. And who's gonna give that money? They're going to give this people again, these craftsmen, these entrepreneurs who, by the way, are going to live very, very hard. This government I must honestly say does a lot of work on it, no government so far as it's tried, maybe times were different, couldn't have done better. Today, when we can do better, we must be patient, we must watch that last master or any of our experts live. We're looking at the streets now, looking at people putting on facades, working here recently and the tram track and working all the time, how many people have money? You see, it's cold today, and they're out. How do these people live? That's the question of this country. Of course, the craftsman is the administration's big problem, big problem. You come to the counters he says take this fill it out, he says take what you fill out, go pay this, you all waste time in that walk, who doesn't deal with it you don't know it. You've got a hundred papers to make by now. Now here we see the government's intentions to make it out of the house, here's what they did to that JDO, so there's a problem because it's been used... again under the questionnaire to craftsmen, under the questionnaire entrepreneurs who cheated on this country, and the goal of certain people is to cheat. A craftsman who has an OIB and who puts his OIB inside can't cheat because he can't open five times. If he owes the state he can no longer trade. But entrepreneurs on the questionnaire, entrepreneurs, I'd call them criminals, they opened 100 companies and left them in bankruptcy and destroyed hundreds of craftsmen. The rule of law must be brought to life, so far I have to tell the truth the best thing to do is to be a craftsman or an entrepreneur to be in a good party, whether in the SDP or in the HDZ, and you are terribly successful. It's like a mushroom when you don't see it overnight, and in the morning it's already... so they become individuals rich who have joined the budgets, who spend budgets, who don't pay... and taxes that no one has investigated to see why they haven't paid, but the craftsman can't do it anymore because he can't do it anymore. And here we have today Đura Djakovic's problem, you were in Brod the other day wondering, of course, who was in charge, who ruined that company, why these signals weren't being given, why someone wasn't responsible for it, not talking about the Oilman and all the others that this government found interesting almost everything. Institutions must work, if the state encourages certain people, encourages craftsmen, encourages farmers, if you are already giving new ones, then you must control them. Money control, where you've invested that money, if the state gives it. It was given in hand and hat, of course no one was in control. Public procurement, we know how it goes. That should be played electronically and who's the lowest to work. Of course, if he doesn't do his job, he needs to be taken away from him and banned from more competitions in any form. A craftsman's chamber, so I doubt it, if the craftsman doesn't cooperate with the chamber why pay? These parafiscal craftsmen are very, very large. Pay this, pay that, we had these kids because they're caterers, someone owns that hotel he has to provide them all to teach them something. At school, we can't do everything, certainly education must be and without education we can't even go to crafts. Yeah, we're sending out one thing, we don't have a master, we don't have a builder, we don't have an electrician, we don't have a plumber. Can't a plumber work in a tie or an electrician, forgive a colleague but it's a little bit like that, it's big workers who have to count, who have to set up, who have to sweat both in the cold and in the heat and in the conditions of such or such. These people don't sit, they're in their cars, they're in their cars, I know everybody works, so so do mine. It's not easy, it's not easy, but they should have good money. When we can't give it here, they go well to Germany, Austria, Switzerland, anywhere, they're waiting anyway, of course, from the administration nobody leaves, interesting. Why doesn't our administration... German administration? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you, no one needs them. No one needs them. I hope that if this government stays still, of course, if we've made one surplus and we're doing one row as much as we can, it's all a process, nothing can be done overnight, you can't even be a craftsman overnight, for 2 years if I tell you that in 30 years I haven't been on vacation for 5 days and I'm doing 16 hours and every craftsman who can't work for 16 hours, he won't be a craftsman, and he has to have a family who will support him and also work and sweat for it. It's not all that easy, of course, to be afraid of rich craftsmen, honest craftsmen, but fair is the worst of the dishonest ones. The institutions of the state must not have any deviations or releases, must be the same to all, all must be punished for their unhappiness or for their crime or for tax evasion and everything else. I have nothing to say about it anymore, I just want to say one more thing that children need to go to crafts, I think that today other opportunities are opening up which they haven't been, I think that this government and this system now going, that they'll open the door that they don't have to go to Germany anymore, they don't have to go to Switzerland anymore, and I see that both my colleagues and I'm looking to give a bigger salary to our master with what we have to say that they are very big workers. That's what I'm saying about those who want to work for honest craftsmen, who pay their commitments to the state and everything. It's not easy, it's just hard work, it doesn't have to be looked at, I'd like the parafiscal you to impose that we don't know who or why, to cut the administration, to give incentives to young people to go to crafts and entrepreneurship, to develop society, to pay us in the pension system, not to have 18 billion kunas taken out of the budget, then we'll be a stable state not to jump in this country as soon as the surplus is all those in public sectors give us better salaries, give us, be patient, realize that if we do order in the country and I see it going towards it, this country can be at least like Slovenia in 5 years. I work with them, I know how they were raised, I know how they behave and please and we, here today I see it, we have a great chance, we have good tourism, we have a farm where I'm down from Slavonia, it's not all so miserable and sad, of course farmers need to be helped, but to control them all. And everyone in the system that's in this country has to pay their obligations and taxes as required by the laws. We accept this law and thank you and I see that everything is going in that direction towards a better craftsman and discharge, but if everyone jumps, of course we can't handle it, and they won't be able to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178004	Thank you, too. And the last debate on behalf of the club of MPs is a debate from counterpart Davor Vlaovic in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats. Here you go, colleague Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178005	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, here on behalf of the HSS and Democrats club, a few words about this proposed Law on crafts. In fact, we need to reiterate the importance and role of crafting in the Republic of Croatia that has a long tradition and that it is more than 86,000 registered crafts in the Republic of Croatia, that it is almost 40% of the total number of Croatian economies with a huge number of employees and with all the problems this sector has. And, of course, this law and all, the full legislative framework needs and must be aimed at reducing the tax burden of crafts and entrepreneurship, reducing administrative burden and bringing the system of education to a special system of education for craftsmanship, bringing those craftsmanship, these master’s interests, our students and their parents, and creating a quality framework for craftsmen who will mentor them, for workshops in which they will teach and through the overall economic environment, the space that they can really develop. The fact is that in times of crisis from 2008 to 2015, a large number of crafts were extinguished but again this craftsmanship, these craftsmen, small and medium entrepreneurs were the backbone that preserved the economic development of the Republic of Croatia while large complexes mainly came into bankruptcy or liquidation. And in order for that not to happen in craftsmanship, certainly this law and all the laws regarding craftsmanship must go after it to help these craftsmen and I think that this law is going towards reducing these administrative burdens of craftsmanship, to go after it to create a quality education for craftsmanship. What should be pointed out is that there is also an important place and the role of the Croatian Chamber of crafts and that it is good that what is said “come back to the mother” and that through this system of crafts chambers will be created and the preconditions for further training, laying down master exams and increasing the number of craftsmen and masters, or that there are no fewer craftsmen and number of jobs in craftsmen in the Republic but of course I want to point out again that there should be room and place and small and medium entrepreneurs because they also want to be in their plants, in their workshops there are places where children would learn through practical teaching and certainly that this legislative framework for students in the workshop should also be seen and how there should be no too much burden and that entrepreneurs do not avoid taking students into teaching. What's the key to everything is to re-emphasise some kind of campaign, I would say so, be a master because we lack a lot of craftsmen and entrepreneurs. You already have a problem with not having certain calls and occupations in the entire Republic of Croatia, especially in major cities, that the problem is to find a master who will change your sink or set up a water heater, simply these jobs are gone, these craftsmen are gone. And we need to bring those interests closer to our students and give them a chance to educate them, but of course they must also have adequate benefits from that job. And surely that this moment that has a lack of workers and that the lack of craftsmen will contribute to it is only by momentum, not because we have systematically worked through the legislative framework on it. What should certainly be said is that there is also an important role of the Ministry of Science and Education and that it is good that we have raised the allocations for the Ministry of Science and Education from 9.8 billion to nearly 17.3 billion in 2019, but it is still not enough because money cannot be solved all the way. What is crucial, and these are holders of knowledge transfer to students and future craftsmen are these teachers, teachers, teachers they must be motivated, they must be paid. And it is regrettable that it took so long to strike and stretch around their coefficients, and on the other hand we expect the results to be motivated and to work with students, future masters and that they create for us tomorrow craftsmen and growth of the economy in Croatia. It is good that they finally have increased coefficients, but they should continue to work on restoring dignity, and then we will have better results on the PISA test because it is embarrassing that we have no movement, we need to stagnate, we need to stand in place while some other countries in the environment grow, and in particular let them be the cause of Finland where a practical teacher, the teacher has an important status in the minority society as a doctor if not greater and where they are allowed to create their own teaching hours, to create themselves how they will convey these skills and motivate students to learn and to be fully educated through their own education and to be successful workers tomorrow. As long as we don't create it in the Republic of Croatia, we'll continue to stand in place and even stagnate as much as possible. Yes, an important segment is both the departments and the school networks, but the most important are teachers, teachers and teachers. If we do not accept it as such, there will be no significant shift. And here we welcome an increase in hours for practical teaching because without it we will not create a master who tomorrow when he finishes secondary education for some craftsmanship can immediately start working but will only continue to have theoretical knowledge and therefore this is certainly good. What we pointed out on behalf of the HSS is that it's not good that the master has to work 15 years in the profession so he can go take the master's exam. It is proposed to reduce it from 15 to 5, this law has been reduced from 15 to 10, and this is supposed to be in line with craftsmen, with the Chamber of craftsmen, but it is still illogical for me because if for some leading jobs and even in state firms in competitions we are looking for such jobs for 5 years of work experience, then I don't see why some master who, after 5 years of secondary education, won't get certain skills even after 5 years of getting master status. I think you could go to further downsizing that threshold and that this is a shift, but I think you should give young people a chance to get master status as soon as possible and that I can open my own craft and be an entrepreneur. What I also want to point out is that we should change some of our policies and follow strategies and developments in Europe and the world because the climate is changing, some new jobs are developing and that we need to create preconditions in our teaching programme, which are primarily mentioned in white jobs, these are jobs in health and social care because there is an increasing need for such titles and interests and jobs and, of course, in the context of climate change in green jobs, green calling and occupations, so there is, above all, environmental protection, clean energy production from renewable sources, etc., a number of interests in the world are emerging there. We have not yet defined this in Croatia through our education system and we must follow these trends to allow our young people to be educated here in Croatia, not to go to Europe. What is important is to point out what everyone has been calling here, and that is exactly what is the status and place and role of craftsmanship, in which they operate, and they all pointed out that one of the big problems and I point out, the problem only the market and the jobs that our craftsmen can get, because through a system of public procurement where they are mostly being combined, they only get big ones and then our craftsmen are like subcontractors, often cut off because they do business for some big company that got a job in the competition, and in the end they can't collect their jobs, even though whoever ordered the job paid off the big company that got the job. That's one model where our craftsmen are cut off. And the second is where they directly appear in some smaller competitions where units of local and regional self-government go through a public contract by obtaining less value, so if you are not politically similar you can't get jobs and these policies and such a way in society must be condemned and such approach must be changed to support crafts and entrepreneurship. And certainly one of the big problems and the collection itself is because a large number of our craftsmen have come into blockades and financial problems could not collect their work done, so here they warn and are now in the debate after this and the Law of Business, that the new system of performance will further slow down that the procedure is returning to the courts, that it will extend this procedure and that it will pick up these proceedings, that it will continue to make it even harder for our craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and they say that this is not going in the right direction and that the number of blocked will continue to be bigger and not smaller as planned by the changes of the law. We also welcome that a growing number of our craftsmen can perform our crafts as a flat-rate, because this is an example of Austria and some other developed countries to preserve life in rural areas and some crafts, and I think that in this direction this system should continue to develop, and what we want from HSS point out that one of the comparative advantages of the Republic of Croatia and the development of craftsmanship in Croatia, which are traditional crafts. And I think that the framework for the legislative framework, especially that financial framework, should be reduced by the commitment to traditional crafts, as they say, because this is how we shut down our traditional turns and disappear, and we want to keep them. It went with the proposal and the reduction of VAT for traditional crafts, it was not accepted, and also for those crafts where hand-to-hand work is needed, such as The making of souvenirs, and we are a tourist country, I think we should work on making souvenirs in craftsmanship financially, as well as hairdressers, florists. Most of the flowers we import to the Republic of Croatia unfortunately, and we have the opportunity to encourage flowering and sell through arrangements and through retailing in flowering, if we financially disbursement this segment would certainly contribute to the development of this segment of society, segment of production, and also allow for the preservation of these lives in rural space. And neither can I, without touching that one of the big companies is in trouble, which is Đuro Đakovic, Đaković Slavonski Brod, who used to employ more than 16,000 employees, is there today a little more than 1,000, in special vehicles about 600, and it is not good that I pointed out that 3 years ago, that she has removed herself from that list of strategic companies or companies of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, although at that time the prime minister assured me that she would take care of him as a good master. So when there was a recapitalisation a year ago, it failed to create a financial framework for the company to be financially stabilised. I warned you about those problems. When workers and trade unions warned in July that Zagreb's bank had given up financial monitoring of this group did not react until September or October until workers went to the streets. It is not and must not be an approach to be guided by the good lord of one society, it is nice to hear that one salary has been resolved, that next week will be resolved and the other, but workers do not believe they are still on strike and they want to hear what will happen in a year and two years because they have about so many contracts and jobs. And why did management spend money, why didn't the Supervisory Board react, why the state audit didn't respond, why did the government not react as one of the co-owners before? These are the questions we need to get an answer on, and I asked that this be the topic of the debate and the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. I believe that it will be these days, to ask these questions there and to clarify and to send to the Croatian public that we care, the message that we care about every job and group of Djura Djakovic and all the major companies, and especially that these companies had a number of cooperatives, craftsmen and entrepreneurs who worked for them. We give them a chance to work again, to get paid and to live on that salary because that's what everyone wants, to have craftsmanship, to have quality education for craftsmen, but then to have jobs that will generate and pay and pay from which they will be able to live. And here in this hope I welcome all the workers in Đura Djakovic and all those who have not received the salary and I call on the government to make sure that it is done as soon as possible, and since we have that untaxable part of up to 5,000 kuna, I have also proposed to Minister of Finance Mr. Maric, and now Mr. Horvat to find the opportunity to pay them Christmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178006	Thank you, too. That's what we're done with the debates on behalf of the clubs. Now a single debate begins, first colleague Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178007	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so I, as well as in the first reading in this law, will welcome some good things, because there are good things here, I will stress what I think I will not say is bad, but that it might be better or that it might be different, but here we go in order. So, for starters, I welcome the shift of the border when it comes to seasonal turns from 6 to 9 months. So, I'm glad that you listened to the Croatian craftsmen who have advocated it for months, months and months, and that there has been hearing about it, and that is an indication that when talking to those most concerned then such solutions are made which are for them and good because they usually know it best. Another thing I welcome is this administrative discharge of craftsmen because the administration and these administrative barriers, I would call them, so a bunch of papers and conditions of slow down some processes, make business harder. And when we talk about, say, a recently published Duing business ranking is just one of the main objections to the issue of building permits was the administrative burden of business in Croatia. Therefore, any administrative discharge is welcome and I welcome it. However, I think we need to open up a debate, not solve these problems until the end. So last time in my first reading, I spoke an example. what we encourage, whether we encourage the opening of crafts as one traditional profession or encourage small businesses, for example. Let's say I'm an economist by profession, today it's generally known that in Croatia the market for economists is saturated, and now I may be unable to find a job for months, on the other hand, I may have some skills that I can use, for example. I don't know about electricity. I'm a good electrician. Under the current laws, I have a huge problem opening a craft to provide electrical services but I can open j.d.o. for 10 kn.o. And there I don't need a master's exam or 15 years of experience or school, I don't need anything, I open J.D.O., I pay small taxes and I can work easy and free and I'm usually competitive with those people who went to school for example. For that, he took the power, for example, it could be anything, it could be a building, it could be some kind of tiny hobby that we decide to do, let's say, because I can find a job on the current market. So I think it's one topic for discussion and we should go this way, what the colleagues in HSS were saying, for example. from that 15-year experience down to 5, so I might have decided on that part because I'm more comfortable with some things compared to J.D.O., he's carrying me some other benefits, but I think that some differences need to change them even more, that it takes more to make them easier for the craftsmen to go simply in that direction, so they don't go to the companies. The other thing, one of the key changes in this law is that master's exam. So, now it's coming back to the crafts chamber, the process of testing, and to pass the master's exam instead of the Professional Education Agency, not the Master's Exam, okay, but we understand, right now, we're doing the chamber again, and let's say that as well as in the first reading, I welcome it, I welcome every strengthening of the crafts chamber, but also, I think we need to open up that debate about the role and position of the crafts chamber, so again we're talking about that chamber contribution and not just the crafts chamber, but all the chambers. So the general perception is when you talk to craftsmen that the chamber's contribution to them is one imposition of which they generally have nothing and they don't understand the importance of maybe the chamber and what the chamber can help them with. There may now be guilt in the chamber itself which, if it has certain incomes, is not working hard enough, but now I don't say what I represent but I think we should certainly open this debate in an argumentable way, so not by politicizing but by seeing how not to choke the chamber on the one hand and on the other hand that the chamber, to relieve the craftsmen and make that chamber in the eyes of the craftsmen important so that they might try harder to get closer to the craftsmen and that the craftsmen have the feeling that they really need it and then, when it is achieved in certain ways, they might be able to think about a voluntary chamber contribution, so I don't think I't want to cut the chamber overnight because I think it would be fatal for a craft chamber that has a long tradition and in fact preserves trades in the Croatian people, but I need to find a transitional mode of how to be able to be able to be able to be able to be more able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do something more productive and to contribute, and to make a good way. Also, I think the chamber should be depoliticalized, we know that the current leader is highly politically active, I know that there are no legal solutions to ban but perhaps in some way we should discuss it because I don't think the craftsmen know the party, so the craftsman has all the political options, both in SDP and in the HDZ and in GLAS, and in some other options and certainly the leader is not well when the head of the craftsman's chamber, I don't know, the mayor's candidate in one county, and like that, in one fierce struggle, the gentleman is kind of temperamental, but then it might be even bigger than that someone else in that case. I don't think it's good for craftsmen, and I think it's for people who need help then, it opens up some kind of space and doubts that maybe someone could avenge political rivals in a particular area or not solve their problems when they're politicized. So, in general, I am to depolitize all institutions of such nature as the craft chamber, the Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Fire Department, which we will discuss today a little later and other such institutions. Basically, craftsmanship is what is deeply rooted in the tradition of our people, which has survived for decades, which we have seen again that it has one value and that they are creating that we are going back to the old one and that people are more esteemed even by some crafts activities of the trade and I think we should continue to cultivate it and here, this is not my point, but some ideas are pure to think about how in the future maybe we find some solutions to these problems that they impose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178008	Thank you, too. We've got three replicas on your exhibit, the first one's a colleague, Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178009	Thank you. Dear fellow Djujic, here's what we need to go on about is what motivates a man to be a craftsman or to be educated in craftsmanship. We know that the craftsman guarantees all of his assets for his business and the cancer of our economy's wounds, and especially the craftsmen to whom it is and the executioner is a limited-responsibility society because many d.o.o.s have seduced a large number of craftsmen in black. We know that they don't answer with all their assets only by the property of their company, so today we have people around us who have nothing, they receive salaries from the state budget and they owe the state a huge amount of money. Many craftsmen are mostly subcontractors of such a d.o.o. who then end up not paying them, and since they are in charge of re-promatter and of what they are working with, eventually their crafts fail because of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178010	Thank you, my colleague, for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178011	That's right, buddy, so that's what I was saying about this incentivizing people whether to open a turn or open a j.d.o.o. or d.o.o. In the end, where some other rules are relative to twists. So, I don't think it should be a big problem for this example you just said to throw out that the craftsman corresponds to his assets for the business of the company. Not only that, we have another example. For example. person who has d.o.o. The company owns an apartment in another city, it can rent and pay that 5% rent tax while with a craftsman who owns an apartment in another city, he pays a different tax or pays a higher tax than a person who is an entrepreneur and has some private property. So these are again things that demote people to go into that story and that's what we have to talk about and try to find solutions, and I don't think solutions are complicated and that at least these things can be very, very easy to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178012	Thank you. There's a colleague named Curai next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178013	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, let me see that you have touched on the same subject who I am on behalf of the club as regards the conditions for performing certain activities. Unlike the company of capital at crafts are required for related activities, therefore not for all because we have a part of the free professions in which you can freely report a certain retail activity regardless of your acquired education, that there is a certain injustice to the craftsmen themselves who must do so. I'm not saying that it shouldn't be, I think that those with their own sense of existence should work, but that there are precisely these avoidances through the establishment of no.o. but J.D.O. as some and simple societies, it is elegantly bypassing, and we know the advantages and disadvantages of the crafts themselves, and we know how much better the crafts are for the functioning of one economy as a whole because they are just guaranteeing what a colleague has been saying and the charges and liability; and [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178014	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178015	That's right, colleague Curai. Well, for the record, I have to say that everything you've said is exactly what you've been saying, even though this is exactly what I haven't been agreeing with lately. Yes, the craft, the craft is much more significant in my opinion, but it has these barriers. So, from now on, we've mentioned all of this together and responding to personal property, but this story of tax debts that my colleague just said. So, you as a craftsman if you're stuck there on that list of taxpayers you're there and you're gonna have a hard time getting rid of it, while some owners d.o.o., j.d.o. They open each other, then the third, so they pile up their debts at several companies, and generally they don't respond. On the other hand, the same thing, you open it under your name and name, and that's it, and we remember those incentives when it was when you opened J.D.O. You don't pay right away, you're not in the VAT system for the first year, so we've done, okay, practice. showed that it wasn't good, you open up, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You shut down and open a new one, but you have to admit when it's something, something's not a good solution. [[I'm a friend of mine.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178016	Comrade Djujic, it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178017	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178018	It's okay. You'll get a chance to use it in the last line, keep thinking. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178019	Dear fellow Djujic, it is a good thing that you opened this topic, so here is the latest or last oil case where we see where one company can be liquidated and practically resurrected if it is according to the plan of the bankruptcy manager through the company Ulnik 1865. In a craftsman it's impossible, actually impossible to liquidate because he, because he responds as you yourself said to his OIB and simply everything he has puts on the line. That's, that's the important difference. Also in the Republic of Croatia, if we look at the data of the FINE as large a company as possible, it has a higher pay average, which is, by the time we get to the micro entrepreneurs, then there are the lowest wages. This tells us that we have big problems, that our craftsmen actually have big problems in terms of competitiveness on the market. Someone here mentioned a public procurement that must have been one of the contributions to that situation. I'll talk about it in an individual debate, but this topic you've opened must be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178020	Thank you. Here you go, pal. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178021	Comrade Sagar, it's safe to compare some small crafts and I don't know the Oil or some smaller crafts and Agrokor, that it's unfair, which it is. Look, Agrokor's state is on its way to rescue because there were 10 thousand employees there and the collapse of Agrokor would practically cause huge damage to the state and the blockade of the state, and if one turn unfortunately doesn't recognize that system in such a way that one individual will go to rescue, that's unfortunately so. So you can shut down 300 revolutions, one by one by two, three employees that nobody will even blink, but that's why through some legal relief you need those people maybe that unfair system I'll tell, try to calm down or make it easier for them in some way. Oil oil is also a large number of employees, but no craftsman will come to the kind of dubiosis that the Oilman has come to because simple business is the way it is, it requires it. So these are things that are well mentioned, but then see how craftsmen are essentially encouraged, encouraged, or done. A little more just than that system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178022	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up, she's a colleague of Love Maximchuk's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178023	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues are before us today a law to try to bring the education system in line with the needs of the labour market in which employers are partners with educational institutions, where they jointly decide on the registration quotas, as well as the programmes needed on the labour market. The amendments were initiated to improve the education system for tied crafts. The acquisition of skills required on the market increases productivity, but also the competitiveness of crafts. With the new law we have a series of benefits, I'll list some. Following the completion of the teaching course, a scientific examination will be carried out to demonstrate competence and facilitate the entry into the labour market for young people. Amendments and additions to the law will contribute to raising the quality of vocational education. People who have a proper secondary vocational education for 10 years can open a craft without having to take a master's exam, which has been between first and second readings this number of years has been reduced from 15 to 10 which I also welcome. The scholarships, of course, the minister himself said that 220 million kunas are separate for the scholarship of students, or for all the benefits involved in vocational education, and they are, students are scholarshipd with 1,500 kuna which is certainly valuable and should be welcomed. It is also funded by mentors of 80% salary, which is also important, these people spend a lot of their time learning young people and of course they should be rewarded for it. After completing school, a young man can take advantage of the measure and self-employment measures and self-employment where at 70,000 kunas and, of course, run his own business or business. The extension of this season's turn from 6 to 9 months, too, we welcome. It is particularly good in these areas where the tourist season is and where indeed the 6 months may be short, therefore here I also welcome this measure of extending the seasonal turnover from 6 to 9 months. To increase the competitiveness of the crafts, today we have over 86 thousand crafts, in my county it's 2164. We need to be faster in the changes to the legislation. That's what our craftsmen are asking us to do. In the control of inspections and all those who come into control of our craftsmen. We need to spend more time consulting these craftsmen. Of course, they may even get involved in these legislative regulations at times, and I stress, therefore, that we should not just come to punish them but rather spend more time consulting our craftsmen. Every healthy society appreciates work and profession, and in such systems of value, a good master is an esteemed person. When a master who knows his job is respected in our society, we will advance as a society, as well as in the economic sense. Unfortunately, in our society, some values have turned a little bit, so all together we have to sensitize the public on the problem of vocational education, and I'm going to rely on tax reform, on those previous, not this 4th round of tax reform, where the award for apprenticeship does not go into the censorship of a dependent member of the family, which is certainly very important to parents where for a couple of kunas that reward for apprenticeing those losses means, this abstention member of the family. Tax release of young people is also one of the measures that will certainly enable young people to stay here in their country and I welcome the adoption of this law and continue with the media campaign because a good master in society is an esteemed person, so here again I support and thank you for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178024	Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178025	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Maximchuk. You've talked a lot about education in your presentation. So let's see the situation that we have in Croatia at the moment. I think there are about 80,000 open jobs somewhere that we're going to fill out with people who are, living outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and we're aware that something that was in our possession of quality, it was crafty schools and that we had high-quality craftsmen with which we could boast. If we've lost it along the way somewhere and the situation is alarming, so on the one hand you have some legislative frameworks that must be light, must be pulsating, must be quickly feasible and therefore related to craftsmanship, we can see the results relatively quickly, but the theme is that on the one hand you can have a law that can be well regulated, but let's see in reality, a little talk about reality And here's the last thing [[Intruder Hajdash-Doncic: Thank you.]] You were talking about promiscation, I think it's extremely important. [[Intruder Hajdash-Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178026	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178027	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, that I have pointed out and in my debate that the professions in every society should be appreciated, with us these values have been lost somewhere, the causes have arisen much earlier, I agree with you, they should have started to solve them long before, and here, I hope it's not too late now. The passing of this law, but every media campaign it does, here I have seen, the ministry, maybe it needs to be strengthened and, of course, we all have to strive together to appreciate it and to make a good master an esteemed member of this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178028	Replica No. 2. A colleague named Babic Ante.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178029	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague Maximchuk. You immediately said in the first sentence that the education system should actually be aligned with the labour market. The labour market is nothing static, it changes from day to day, and the government noticed it, listened to any of our businessmen and reacted quickly. As legislators, we should work on these amendments and amendments to the law. I would personally like such and similar laws to be passed almost in one day, however, the legislative procedure is such that it is simply not possible. These amendments and amendments to the law actually talk about conducting a scientific exam. The government, or legislator, the Ministry of Labour has also respected the remarks of some other opposition colleagues, which in fact says that with special sensitivity, it looks at such changes and amendments to the law because of the need for the labour market, and here is the comment of a colleague, Turina Đurić, I see that the Government has accepted in the second reading which is very good because we all want you to market for work... in the [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178030	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178031	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Of course we're not following the labour market. Our education does not follow the labour market, so most of us here today, in our debate, welcomed the adoption of such a law, the causes came much earlier. Here, we all need to work together as soon as possible in society, and I hope that this figure on the labour market will decrease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178032	Thank you. Replica No. Three, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178033	Thank you very much, Mr. Maximchuk. In your debate, and I know that you are from Slavonski Brod and that it is very important to you how Djuro Djakovic will function in the future after the Minister's announcement that the Hiundai factory in Varazdin and the Chinese shipyards in Pula and Rijeka will be opened. Do you expect this new announcement by the minister about American investors who will take over and work the Bradleys in Djura Djakovic, whether it seems to be one possibility, or positive news that always optimistic and the minister who never scheduled Horvat has released in public. Is that how it's gonna be, is that what I'm interested in? And do you see any positive things for craftsmen when I say that after Hyundai after the Chinese here and the Americans arrive in the boat? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178034	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178035	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. Yes, these days we all talk about Đura Djakovic, we who live in Slavonski Brod know what difficulties have been facing Đura Djakovic's workers for many years. Here has not been a year since the government gave 95 million kuna guarantees to continue production in Djura Djakovic, unfortunately Đuro has been in difficulty again. We all sensitized together with Đura Djakovic's workers, we sought urgent short-term but also those long-term measures for Đura Djakovic, a strategic solution. On Monday, the minister was in Slavonski Brod, he spoke with the workers of Djura Djakovic, and I am sure that the state, as well as the ministry, will find a short-term and short-term solution for workers and Djura Djakovic, as well as for the Slavonski Brod economy, which is certainly based on Djura Djakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178036	Thank you, too. And the last replica of your exposure, the replica of my colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178037	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. You also mentioned something very important to your discussion, which is that in recent years, the status of masters or craftsmen in society has really been impaired, which is not good. And it is certain that by encouraging young people after primary schooling to study for craft professions is also very important and I think that the Chamber of crafts has a significant role to play there. I think it is very important that the status of craftsmen be corrected in any case in a way to help them solve the daily administrative problems they have, and I also think that we should consider why those who live for 24 hours do what they do and correspond to all of their assets for successes in their work have such an unfavourable and unfair position in relation to businessmen who have companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178038	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178039	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Yes, this law is precisely why to improve the status of craftsmen in our society, they are the backbone of this society, but also in that economic and in any other sense. So I said he's a good master who knows his job as a respected person in every society. We may have lost those values somewhere, so it is up to all of us to fix them, and here I welcome once again the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178040	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Ivica Misic. Here's a colleague of Misic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178041	Thank you, Vice President. When we discuss craftsmanship, we just need to know what a great responsibility that same craftsman enters the world of craftsmanship is. This same man corresponds to his property, this man responds with all that he has put into that craft and that he will have problems through the craft. When I look at today from this corner of the problem of this country, I see that politics has become a trade. Of course, it's far more pleasant to sit here and even in this House if we look at life to go through a policy where your salaries are provided from your budget, where if I may say so, you're trying to present yourself to our people as a great politician, and you didn't actually give anything to the people, you're just taking it. I discussed with Minister Maric at meetings to raise the craftsmen 5,000 kunas of minimum wage from minimumers to 5,000 to give nothing more to the state. That's what Maric didn't accept at the time, not give 5,000 kuna to give the craft to the state four more, that's 9,000 a month. It's not accepted. However, looking at today's dispensation of craftsmen who are this government, and the finance minister himself, have brought it in, and I must greet it and the honest, untaxable 12,000 per worker. It's a very important thing for a craftsman when you can pay 12,000 kuna a year for minimum wage and minimum wage, if that worker deserves it and if that crafter has enough resources. Another good thing this government did was it used to be a craftsman up to 3,500 kuna traffic if it passed 3,500 then runs the administration in fact its books as an enterprise. And that same problem was the craftsman moving from one system to another system, investing in these papers. Of course, if you've been working for years, you've been doing a little bit better, so you've raised that twist a little bit bigger, and then you're going one different way. This government this minister has raised it to 7.5 million and it's a very important thing and you need to know that. Who doesn't do crafts and entrepreneurship doesn't really know what the government did for craftsmen. If my colleagues ask me just about one thing, I have to start keeping her books I've passed 3.5 million, I say you don't have to stay a craftsman and you'll lead as you've led, now it's 7.5 million. Then the man was happy, of course, if you're moving from system to system where you need to learn again and administration new or what to instruct how to run it. I personally see this going in one good direction but it's a process that will last for the next ten years. If we go that way and do this the way we do now, I believe, and in five, six years we're going to have big changes in society, we're going to have big changes in crafts, we're going to have safety. Our craftsman must be aware, in fact politics must be aware that the craftsman must trust politics. Unfortunately, it wasn't the case with us until now. Why? So here's an example of the Parliament, we see populism, we see what's going on, we see that it's better to live and deal with politics, sit the truth, and in this House, have a good pay, I haven't proven myself on the market, but here I'm going to prove myself. No, gentlemen, you have to prove yourself on the market, and then come here six, and then say from the market what should be done and how to do it because you're in there every day, you know what kind of problem you have. You ministers, as far as I know you've been on the market, you've done some things, imagine now a man to be, sit down minister, to be, to run something and nothing has done, it's very difficult and it doesn't go, in that direction we can't look anymore as we've looked at it. Of course, the people choose MPs, and he chooses me, and it's not my priority to be in the Parliament, I didn't live, but this is my honor. This is an honor to me. Of course, he won't, he'll choose you, you proved here and showed how big you are in this House and the public is looking at you. Of course, the public don't look at me, you have an example here, sitting in the Parliament. An honest man, capable, so be Prime Minister, I'd actually be unhappy because there's nothing from you. So, I'm not ashamed of you and similar to you, it's a populist leaf that we're spilling in this House, of course the people are looking at me and you, so whoever you give a voice to, you see, I never told anyone, give me a voice, Maras, never in life, nor will I...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178042	.../Intruder Hajdaš Doncic: A fellow Mišić, please on the subject, please on topic./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178043	...but you did. He was throwing it away, so I gave it back to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178044	.../Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Please on topic./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178045	Okay, sorry. Therefore, I stand here proud, see if I have paid taxes, obligations and everything else that I have said as I entered the Parliament, behind me there are no dirty jobs or I want them to be, I just want every straight craftman to be privileged, honored to live like that, and I need to reward him and all those who do not pay obligations and taxes and deal with crime, of course they do not have my support. Therefore, gentlemen, thank you for this law, one part is moved and it will be better craftsmanship, I see, of course, there are many more things to be done for me in order to compare with Finland, Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia, which is closest to us, with which I cooperate, it is also a matter of education, domestic education and the education of the people, because I will not say that we are not raised but we need to know one order, order and order. Of course, upstairs from the first step of politics and all the way down there must be order. If we make the order, we will have one country where our grandchildren and our children will have arranged company and will be happy to have everyone back who went to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178046	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit, first mate Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178047	Thank you very much. My colleague Misic, in your debate, felt this experience that you are pulling out of private business, you are an entrepreneur, successful, so they know in the Vinkovci that you have done great things and now you give it into politics a lot. So what I'm interested in is when you combine this entrepreneurial experience and experience politically because you have this wide experience when you went from MOST to the Living Wall and now to HDZ, so you circled one whole, do you feel that this law at that level is quality, that you as an entrepreneur and a man of broad political spectrum, I say from the Living Wall to HDZ, that you could help craftsmen? Here's what I'm interested in, and I'm curious about how you see these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178048	Here's your answer, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178049	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I was not in the Living Wall, nor was I in the party of the Most, nor was I in the party of the Living Wall. I've never been to any party in my life until I entered the Parliament, so let's be clear. I had the honour of being invited to HDZ, I said no, I don't want to go to any party and it was an honor and I support HDZ, I gave my hand to this option that I support, only for those reasons that I now see with this prime minister and this structure of people that this country is moving forward. If they do something that isn't of course, then my support won't have this until now, I congratulate them. I don't think they could anymore and of course in the future if they lead, it'll be good and the state will move forward. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178050	Replica number 2, colleague of Vučetić Marko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178051	Thank you. Dear fellow, the exhibition was interesting, it touched from these personal references to the market and craftsmen and now I'm interested, I'm not quite clear, which is why you're raising the market to a level of holiness, even to the level of authority of politics and policies because that's not the case. Politics regulate and yet determine the dynamics that will take place on the market. In addition, in exposure, craftsmanship should also be viewed as a kind of extinct activity, in what way? Many of the trades that exist now, in 10 years' time for social and economic change, will not exist. And when we regulate the legal problem of craftsmanship and what happens here, we must not look at craftsmanship at the level of holiness but also at the level of fluid reality that is, arises, disappears and becomes something new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178052	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178053	Thank you, Mr. Vuketic, colleague Vuketic. I didn't raise anyone to holiness or anything, but I'm a man who's in some kind of a twist and some kind of business, when someone does you a good thing, I want to say thank you. For a craftsman, there are plenty of 12,000 kunas that this government has now given untaxed, I know what that means. You as a professor of course are connected to the budget, you don't know what I mean, I know it. It's not that it raises them to not know what I'm already thanking you for, of course, it should have been a lot more, it's not enough, but compared to what it was, I think it's not just that, and what I've told you, the revenue of 3.5 million to 7.5 million is a big thing for craftsmen who are rising and growing and no longer need to change the system of their papers from crafts to the papers run by companies. It's not that I'm raising someone but it's true and I'm only saying what it is and what it is, tell me what it isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178054	Thank you. You responded to your colleague Vučetić, market fundamentalism is a matter of ideology, but we also have the last line, and this is a colleague, Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178055	Thank you. Dear fellow Misic, I wanted only to support this debate of yours. We can't, of course, put all the entrepreneurs and all the craftsmen in the same basket. Someone here mentioned public procurement today. And it's clear to you that a lot of people, so let's put it this way, to use that term, punks, to go with dumping prices, to get a job on public procurement, to hire craftsmen, not to pay them, to keep people in debt to the state and to contribute to everything. So there are cases like this, and in this sense we don't need to even ourselves up. And another important thing, when we're talking about so-called. the real sector and the public sector, and these days the issue of teachers' salaries was also current. Believe me, not all entrepreneurs are in the same situation again. So someone very generously uses public procurement, 46.6 billion kuna without VAT and 14 billion kuna support. Well, it doesn't go into the wind. In Slavonia they are now building kindergartens 100 squares 6 million kunas the price of kindergartens. That's what we need to talk about. So neither is everyone in the public sector very sacred, so yes, God in private, so that only in the public sector is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178056	Thank you. Dear Representative Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178057	If you've listened to me, I stand for the rule of law, for all craftsmen and entrepreneurs to work for the rule of law. The one who was deceived, the one who cheated, should actually be held accountable. There are courts, unfortunately, who they are. When we look at the real sector or the public sector, but of course in the public sector, people are looking for more and more and here, everybody's asking for wages, come on, we heard there's money, says there's money. When I listen to it, he says he's got money. How do you know there's money if you don't run financials, it just doesn't make sense to me. But all the politicians yell, there's money. I'm still in favour of the rule of law. The truth was in the real sector of all companies, all kinds of entrepreneurs, all kinds of craftsmen. Unfortunately, honest craftsmen have fallen apart for as many as we tell them. But that's why the country and we... We ask them all to have the rule of law finally come to life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know it wasn't worth 40 billion taxes not paid by gentlemen in this country. Who was responsible for that? I don't know, but that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178058	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178059	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to be able to discuss this law individually, especially after my colleague, Misic, who made a very large contribution to this part of support for the law itself and HDZ itself. I'm going to be a little critical and I'm going to say what I think I'm saying and it's about this law where there are some things that are logical and need to be corrected. For example, the craftsman moves from the law itself. As far as she was concerned, it was a cost which, if I remember correctly as early as 2014, in the 15th, we abolished and published online by registering crafts what was the first such online possibility of opening the company. In 2014, we took a step forward. Certainly craft professions and scholarships for craft professions. I'm glad even here to see when both Minister and Prime Minister Plenkovic share these scholarships that we... In 2015, thousands and thousands of our students and pupils receive some amount of money a month so that they can have a better education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's something we need and what we need to support. So on the other hand, what I can't agree with in the law itself, I said, so it's politicized to that extent that it's simply a group of interest that's connected to the president of the chamber through HDZ in a sense of putting the crafts chamber back together again, in the whole process, and we have a professional education agency that can do it in a quality way and normally that I can't agree with it. As for the situation itself and the craftsman on the market, they can be helped more. I'm particularly pleased to see that there are a lot of cobwebs, a form of business that I particularly promoted and supported. I see today there are 40, 50 thousand trades that have decided to pay taxes on the other hand to sell their services on the market. I saw at one point that the government was going to put an end to such a form and be rigorous towards them. I am glad to end that it has given up because every form of entrepreneurship should in particular encourage this smallest and especially the most endangered. So you have to give him the most space because it's not easy to have your own cobweb because you're not sure if you're going to have any clients tomorrow. Some say they pay less taxes but they don't have a yearly, they don't have the possibility of a safe job as once provided by the Labour Law. Unfortunately, I say sometimes because we see and it is amazing that in the Republic of Croatia we have companies owned by states that do not pay salaries between them and Đuro Đakovic, among them and RIZ transmitters. Here's a question for a minister who is directly in charge of the company as it is possible that people did not, they received six months and a few months' salary, in the middle of the city of Zagreb, owned by the state no one even blinked. So we have so many, so many things to talk about, crafts, let's say something that's mentioned quite a bit these days is the advent fair in the city of Zagreb where there's a lot of artisans who are exhibited but are expended, said, whatever you want to call it to get a house and can sell their stuff and offer their services at an advent fair in the city of Zagreb. Instead of getting the opportunity to rent it from the city of Zagreb, they have the opportunity to rent it from subcontractors, or those who have rented it at very favourable prices from the City of Zagreb, for several thousand kunas then our craftsmen and simple companies or d.o.o. In the end, they end up paying 50 to 100,000 kuna. I am sorry that Mr. Entrepreneur Misic is not here who is a member of the Milan Bandic Club, this one to say something about the subject, given how our entrepreneurs are racketed, and on the other hand I said something yesterday. So, plastically in every serving of 20 kuna fritula you pay, 10 kuna goes to intransparency and corruption. So there's a lot of things to talk about when it comes to twisting around here. I'm sorry that some things we can't do better, so I'm not pushing for this kind of approach that says that the chamber needs to get these additional powers because I don't think that the chamber should get legal powers and do its job, but the chamber should find its services the interest of craftsmen and that they use those services. Unfortunately, the Chamber of crafts doesn't think about it, she's thinking more about how to survive politically and how to keep this structure leading with the Ranogajec in the long run. Because trust me, it means a lot more to them that he has the president of chamber A6 001 no, so that's registration, A6 is registration, car, and 001 The craftsman's chamber is registration, it's much more important to the president of the Chamber of crafts, than how to help, how to help craftsmen in their business. Finally to say a few things, I've said I'll be abstentioned and the SDP's Club of Representatives will be restrained, so a few of the things we support in the law are these things that have been erased, which are unnecessary, the extension of the seasonal rotation also to 9 months, we can no longer be 9 months because then it wouldn't be a seasonal trade, although you have very little de facto crafts that do it, even in tourism there's not 9 months anymore. We'll be happy when we're nine months old as a country, I don't think we've got it, or we'll have it soon, but there are some things I'd like to be able to support in part because the general law can't support it. I'd love to have our craftsmen, because here we have a craftsman from Varazdin County who asked me to ask the minister here who to report to would be happy to work for Hyundai, for this factory that's open in Varazdin, so if the minister can give some contact here publicly, that the craftsmen can answer. And the only thing we're a little worried about is whether we'll have the capacity after the minister announced that Volkswagen was coming. So not only will we have Hyundai's factory, the Hyundai Korean autoindustry, but here's Volkswagen's efforts by Minister Horvat and Prime Minister Plenkovic, we have pushed Turkey out of play and will probably push 1,000 and 1,000 cars of the world out of our Varazdin and possibly Međimurje County. So, if that's the case, we're all going to be happy, although given how it was, how it was communicated, of course, and a little bit of doubt that's going to happen together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178060	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178061	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, of course, you were in your debate, which was also to expect to touch the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is the city that will vote next week for next year's budget of 12 billion kuna, but on the items when it comes to craftsmen, when it comes to small entrepreneurship, all that the city should help its craftsmen have been reduced. So also through this way the city actually said that being a tradition of craftsmanship, that there were a number of things that you could do in the City of Zagreb, when it comes to craftsmen, of course there will be no more. So I'm interested in your attitude regarding these reductions in the budget of the City of Zagreb, when it comes to craftsmen, because in this way the message that they have in the City of Zagreb is something that was a tradition that we don't need, we have some new traditions in the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178062	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178063	Thank you very much. Well, it's clear that unfortunately it's not 5, but 105 topics that are interested in the city's administration. The problem is that, for example, when we touched this Advent and the homes, instead of dealing with the property office or the spatial planning of the city that should take care of what the city looks like, the team deals with the office for the economy or Mrs Jozic. So, instead of dealing with how to encourage economics and how to do something more than one competition assigns 200,000 kunas, they think they did not know what, they deal as if they found new models of non-transparent management such as the adventure houses in the City of Zagreb. So many things in the City of Zagreb don't seem right, people don't do it systematically and not from those places that should be dealt with and we can't expect anything more from the city budget. No matter what he's got, he's got enough money. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to give more significant incentives to both craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178064	The next one is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178065	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you said it was your opinion that the chamber should not have this kind of authority, and now I disagree completely with you, I believe that the chamber should be strengthened, that is what I said in my individual debate, but then we must also think about abolishing the chamber's contribution. So, to strengthen the chamber in a way that it works with its work and quality or how fellow Misic would say by placing it on the market, because of his income. And then, if that were the case, the craftsmen would be happy to pay a chamber contribution on a voluntary basis, for example. If we had a feeling they were getting something from the chamber. And the president of the chamber would then spend these funds and revenues on improving the quality of the work of the chamber and providing quality services to craftsmen, and he wouldn't use this car as much as you mentioned on the license plate and stuff like that. That's what we all have to strive for together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178066	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178067	Thank you very much. I have to be honest, as far as the crafts chamber is concerned, we've significantly reduced the contribution, but we've had the idea and the concept that we have two chambers, that the HGK has a voluntary membership fee, and that's where anyone can register J.D.O. or D.O.O. If it wishes not to pay a chamber contribution, and the Chamber of crafts for specific activities, although significantly reduced, it was placed that it remained mandatory. It was the idea to do it then, unfortunately when I was a minister, unfortunately HNS boycotted it and eventually remained mandatory and HGK. What I don't like about the Chamber of crafts that they took advantage of that moment when they were able to increase the chamber contribution as soon as HDZ came he jumped from 56 to 76 seems to me, so for 20 kuna they raised the chamber contribution and thus full and took too much money for the craftsmen and filled their budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178068	The next one is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178069	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you said it was your opinion that the chamber should not have this kind of authority, and now I disagree completely with you, I believe that the chamber should be strengthened, that is what I said in my individual debate, but then we must also think about abolishing the chamber's contribution. So, to strengthen the chamber in a way that it works with its work and quality or how fellow Misic would say by placing it on the market, because of his income. And then, if that were the case, the craftsmen would be happy to pay a chamber contribution on a voluntary basis, for example. If we had a feeling they were getting something from the chamber. And the president of the chamber would then spend these funds and revenues on improving the quality of the work of the chamber and providing quality services to craftsmen, and he wouldn't use this car as much as you mentioned on the license plate and stuff like that. That's what we all have to strive for together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178070	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178071	Thank you very much. I have to be honest, as far as the crafts chamber is concerned, we've significantly reduced the contribution, but we've had the idea and the concept that we have two chambers, that the HGK has a voluntary membership fee, and that's where anyone can register J.D.O. or D.O.O. If it wishes not to pay a chamber contribution, and the Chamber of crafts for specific activities, although significantly reduced, it was placed that it remained mandatory. It was the idea to do it then, unfortunately when I was a minister, unfortunately HNS boycotted it and eventually remained mandatory and HGK. What I don't like about the Chamber of crafts that they took advantage of that moment when they were able to increase the chamber contribution as soon as HDZ came he jumped from 56 to 76 seems to me, so for 20 kuna they raised the chamber contribution and thus full and took too much money for the craftsmen and filled their budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178072	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. This bill has its own positive sides in any case it is a greater commitment of the state, but even so far created assumptions for the withdrawal of European funds in terms of the scholarship of craft professions, especially when we talk about this unique model of education or tied crafts. Surely an additional impulse throughout this segment could also be an incentive for the craftsmen themselves to be relieved in some way by the cost resulting from this added value with their work, meaning participation in the education system itself and in the formation of the labour market together with the education system because we still have craftsmen who simply involve ourselves, we have craftsmen involved. I believe that those who wish to be included in this should be rewarded, those who may have an interest in it, but who do not have the conditions to help them, thus creating a climate of need and for this kind of social engagement that can ultimately be useful to the craftsmen themselves. I also believe that this initial proposal to allow for the licensing of crafts and persons means that the conditions of the master's examination for the establishment of crafts will be excluded, that the experience gained, the work in that branch will be valued. The first proposal was 15 years, this is 10, I think it's a good step, and that's the positive side of this law. I am a bit of a double opinion regarding the condition of the completion of three years of education, or these programmes with the obligation of adjudicating exams, not because I don't think they are necessary, but in fact, now these students will also have to join the assistant or scientific exam with the necessary construction and defence of the final work. Yeah, I don't know. I figured it out that way. I don't know how it's gonna work out with the dynamics at the end of the school year. Maybe I can't see well enough how it's going to work in practice so that in doing so, we're doing a little reserve. I hope that the real intensity of legislation in this part was only motivated by the fact that 42% of students have access to the finality of the auxiliary exam because so far he has not been obliged, I hope that the motive does not lie in some financial aspect where this obligation would be ensured, I will not say any financial benefit, but certainly what I hope, so in short I hope that this is positively motivated in the interest of... Now let's warn the other part of the law, or the items of the law, of certain things. The fact is that in the Republic of Croatia 70% of students are actually in the system of vocational education. It is the public's guilt that all students go to high school or that most students go to high school. No, that's incorrect, so almost 70% of our students are in the system of vocational education and one small part of the craftsmanship is precisely these three-year programs. The CEDEFOP report has recently been published, which is the main top European professional agency where it was implemented from 2016 to 2018, and they have, as an objective mechanism or instrument, carried out research, among other things, provided key findings and proposals for improving and further developing apprenticeships. And that's exactly what you're saying is that since 2013 when we actually took our government out of this extracurricular exam, in a way we've only put a little bit of a chamber aside from not meeting certain obligations that I'm going to say a little bit more about, and so it turns out that the government's decision is now blaming itself, that the proportion of students in JMO programs have been reduced from 2013 to today from 21 thousand to 10,670 students. However, I must warn, so we can't link this to some of the decisions because parallel to this, so these kids didn't go into four-year professional programs because of the inability to find a trade where, inability to make a contract, they're going to find a place where they're going to conduct their training because we see that from 2013 to today, the number of students enrolled in professional programmes has fallen just as rapidly. So there's no reason for child enrolment in JMO's key, perhaps in a smaller part, it's related to some government decisions. So the fact is that we have a smaller number of students, the fact is that we may have made an appointment in popularization and in a campaign to create attractiveness for these professions, and that's where we have to focus all our actual energy. It is a false perception in society when we talk about this promotion of craft programs, it is a false perception that students who have no other choice and who have poor grades are actually enrolled in craft programs, because this research shows that many of the students interviewed have said that they have exclusively defined themselves for these programs and occupations, on the one hand because of family tradition, and on the other hand because of their personal interest. So there's an interest, but there's an interest to be awakened. What we still have to face, I hope we will deal with some key problems, which is a lack of support. So behind this research, it turns out that many schools, but not only schools, but also trades that are expected to be involved in these processes, believe that chambers and trade unions do not put enough effort into supporting and promoting JMO programmes, because, let's say, trade unions are not involved in any way in the unique education models at all, which is one negativity that we need to correct, and in this law that platform, I don't see. Next thing you know, it means quality assurance. In order for the crafts to teach our students, they must be licensed. The license is issued by the HOK. However, what the craftsmen agree to is that after the authorisation and licence is issued there is no further supervision and no subsequent monitoring is practiced. So we're not taking enough care of quality assurances. When we let our students into the system, continuous surveillance is the one that is missing after getting a license, that is what comes out of this and it is important for our students because licensing at this point is the only tool that we can provide and control, further supervision is the only tool that we can ensure the quality of the place where students spend their share of schooling during their education. The majority of respondents, too, were master craftsmen, however, the respondents mainly said they had not passed the training to develop their pedagogical and didactic competences. That's why I'm not sure if you've done well when you've put off the kind of rigorous rule of the ministry that asked teachers in vocational schools, but also the mentors, who are craftsmen, licensed craftsmen, who carry out apprenticeships, to demand fairly high standards in pedagogical and doactic competences. We have to work on it, and we can't ignore it. Their expertise is important in their work, craftsmanship, but we must not forget to work with children and that we must ask them for a high level of competence in this part as well. And I'll be done. What I told you in the replica. Let's not ever let children happen again, we know that when children go to school they have the right to so-called. A reward or compensation during teaching. Let us not allow craftsmen to pay children and by law prescribed minimum and no compensation. This must not allow our children to be abused as a free workforce. That doesn't. It's not the intensity of connecting the labour market and the education system, and it doesn't go into favor, but it goes to the HOK and the Ministry and all of us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178074	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178075	Thank you. Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Voice. Just a brief update, I think you've listed one thing, an older data and that this new one is telling us why vocational schools are important and what's going on. Namely, the 70% data in high school students to go to vocational is from 2015. Today, when we look at a four-year vocational school, it's 42%, 42.05% for this year that's enrolled, and for a three-year period, another 15%, so that's a total of 57%. So since 2015, we've come from 70% today to 57% of professional ones, and I think it's extremely important that we do this dual education system to raise that average, at least to the old ones, which I'm not saying might have been good. And by the way, almost 24% of high school students this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178076	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178077	I couldn't agree more with you. And we must not interfere with the mind that we need to find mechanisms to create more effectively registration policies of human potential management at the level of counties that are the founders of secondary schools. I have regard to social peace and the need to keep jobs, not to send people to the streets. But the purpose of this society and the education system is to protect students. So I don't sign them up, create registration policies that, meaning profiles that need the labour market, not children knowingly send to the labour market in some programs, some interests that there's no need for us to, I'm going to say, keep the peace in the chambers, so that someone doesn't run out of full or part of the captain. It's something that's a big challenge standing in front of us and we're gonna have to decide sooner or later on that step, no matter how painful I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178078	Honorable representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178079	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. I'm from a craftsman's family, so I grew up in a craftsman's family when my father was a craftsman in another system at another time, and I think the tradition of craftsmanship is something that is extremely important. That she's been kind of lost lately and that the message we're sending and when kids are enrolling in high school is actually the wrong message. There are some traditional occupations that are needed and that will be lost. So, I'm absolutely sure, except for one systematic, systematic story that goes through this law, it takes two more things. One thing is the promotion of certain occupations and you come to any craftsman, the question is, is he retired or is he on his way to retirement? So, that young people commit to it, but I think there's another system that we need to act on right now, and these are different requalifications from some countries, from some occupations to craftsmanship. occupations. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178080	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178081	Better horizontal but also vertical passing in this part of vocational education. This was predicted by a full curricula reform, even in one part that two years go as some kind of general and then change over the last year or two, to make it easier to requalify. Unfortunately, we gave up a little bit in one part, the other part we accepted, and we continued with it, and what you mentioned about the traditional us in Croatia worth of crafts, I think there is space in the EU funds, right in that part of the Visibility that the Republic of Croatia and the individual ministries of common forces are going into a strong campaign of promotion precisely this about preservation, the need to preserve traditional crafts and what is actually related to us as a country. It's haters, it's carpenters, it's Croatian umbrellas, and now, I'm not getting into the details, somebody do the analysis, but there's space.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178082	The next individual debate will be that respected representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178083	Thank you, dear Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. I'm going to be a little bit more than the one in front of the club here in my individual debate based on the problems of craftsmen or in the general law and everything that meets today's craftsmen. What is important is that these changes, of course, I will begin with just as I have cited the data in which we have practically lost a third of our children in crafts or vocational schools for just four years that we have to do something about it. We have to do something, not only is the market talking today, as soon as there's some economic growth and an increase in economic activity and everything that follows from the civil sector and all other related ones, you can't find a master for the cure and it costs as dry gold. Of course, this is exactly the way that we are supposed to follow it, to prevent it, or, so let's do it one way, and let's do it, and this system of dual education where we involve employers as partners, it's something that is absolutely important because it guarantees us that when people, when our children usually, when they come out of these educational institutions, or schools, are as ready as possible for their inclusion in the labour market. And not only as auxiliary workers, but just as individuals who can form such craftsmen who can already start with a certain experience that guarantees me during education that wasn't what we just had those student practices where they come in, they're standing by, they're half a target, they're preparing and they're least learning what they're supposed to do there. We must have an education that, in which we will get a man who can absolutely go straight to the labour market. Well maltene and independently through the establishment and crafts, and also what I mentioned or d.o.o., which is really for thinking in that difference, that one j.d.o.o. does not have to have any pre-conditions for activities, and the craft must have all. If we're talking about related activities, and that's what this is about most. What I can praise is an absolute change as far as seasonal crafts are concerned, the liberalisation of the one who can all be seasonal crafts, so more or less, it opens up for all activities, from 6 to 9 months. Surely this part of the story about informing everything and eliminating that physical craftsmanship in nylon as driving or traffic, now we have paper that is absolutely available to all administrative bodies and you don't have to carry it with you which is also, nonsense was. Of course, and all the costs that it costs, this is what we end. Also, certain and administrative redundancies, but also the financial ones our craftsmen absolutely pay for. I think that the data that is the genealogy of this and these changes that only 42% of those who have completed a three-year vocational school have access to take-up, so somewhere they work with an employer and never actually do, will also increase this to get as many quality people as possible, masters on the labour market who can then start their own crafts. Of course, the valorization of the experience itself. What's really important and what's the problem when we look at why someone would go to the trade, why not in the capital societies, is certainly the ease of doing business, the less administration, the less paperwork, but not less responsibility. That's what's being underlined here, my colleagues said, in the craftsmanship corresponds to their own property, and even to that level that if you're a craftsman, not owned by crafts, but owned by your own private property, and you're a craftsman, you're a certain property you rent, so let's say you're in the VAT system, you have to rent an account with VAT. That property isn't in the craft, it's yours. But tax treatment is such that you have to issue an account, even if it's for a service that has nothing to do with the activities of the crafts. It's so tax-based now. Is your income accounted for at the annual level and you can't pay any percentages of rent but you have to issue a invoice. If you're a cobbler, then it goes without VAT, of course, but it comes into your annual receipt of those 300,000 kunas, so it might happen to someone that it comes out of the flat tax method just because he had some real estate that he rented or inherited, that they rented, etc., etc., that we're not talking about any other option that could be. Furthermore, I think the cobwebs themselves were absolutely and were a full hit for a lot of interests where we absolutely relieved our citizens of all those administrations. They only have to keep their exit accounts, submit a quarterly report and at the end of the year make a reckoning to see which category they belong to in view of the revenues they had during the year, whether 80 000 etc., 230 to 300 and pay accordingly a tax that goes from 1200 to 2, 3000 kuna per year in excess of those giving 1200 per month and no one asks them what they spend that money on. Not a single entry account has to grow old or run a book of entry accounts or anything. So that's something that's absolutely important and why am I saying it? We have now had these tax changes that I have warned that in only one segment they can understand and that someone wants to use these benefits and Malta by not avoiding tax obligations, so either opening different companies, related companies or working with a single employer, sitting and receiving orders, all the same is no longer an employee but a person who has a self-employed activity and can understand it, but all the rest, it should absolutely be valorised that these people have decided not to have any benefits with the employer in terms of sick, annual, severance, cancelled deadlines, days off, anything that comes to them from the Labour Act and the Dadaco, their pensions, the future which is much less since the contributions are very, very minimal, almost no but their choice, and they must be aware of it. What is also important in the way of the annual accounting, you now have a situation where a craftsman whose other income is therefore already employed somewhere, when he makes an annual account, he pays taxes or pays contributions to health even though his employer already pays for it. They're admitted in some relief 50%, they go into the cost of that year but de facto, he pays them. He pays double health care. I don't know why, I don't know why, I tried at the Ministry of Finance's level to turn it aside like that, okay, when he's got income from an independent activity, then he pays all the contributions in the flat that he's determined himself to be, and that's probably about 2,000 kuna a month at the lowest if he's in the VAT system, or as an income, and then the tax pays according to the result. But once a man is a craftsman, he has another interest in being all right, and then at the end of the year we hit him again with health care contributions and there's never any better service. Now for me, I don't know how fair it is or not, he does not need it to establish a flat-rate craft, then everyone will go into the sphere of the cobweb, of course we need to make it easier for our citizens, or for our craftsmen, and for those who are actually dealing with the economy, which is easier business, as simple as possible and as less burdensome as possible. I think it's the point of everything because it's proven that the more we dissipated the economy and the more citizens, that they actually grew the same income from the tax because the more money was fired and the more the economy breathed and the more the economy needed only to get to that level when it was good. I think it's absolutely clear to everyone that it's a specific form that connects to the OIB, that it's a response to its own property, that it's practically carrying that craft name and last name, so there's a name and a particular legal person but that everything is connected here to the person, and that's why we should and what I've mentioned, see when we've included the possibility that family members can help the craftsman without being formally employed at the moment when they're not in the same household, it's not possible anymore, and maybe the same thing should be considered to allow parents from craftsmen or craftsmen to help and to be helpful in that craft, whether they live under the same roof or not or the same household. In this way, we would make it even more easier to make this formal story of our craftsmen who really don't happen in that sense that they're spinning, and I don't know what millions are going on, and I don't know, God forbid, some tax ejaculations because I think they're just people who make a living with their hands or fill their budgets, and that's how it should be encouraged and stay. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178084	Thank you very much, the next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178085	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Just to start by taking the opportunity to thank my fellow Micic for perhaps giving me the opportunity to explain exactly what I was thinking in his debate on behalf of the club. Namely, I will now speak about this topic from another point of view, the views of the crafts and craftsmen themselves, and in the debate on behalf of the club I spoke from the point of view of the education system and what this law adopts, so in this context I said that today, given that the technology is progressing, that the plumber might install the tie, of course I did not mean that after fellow Misic said that these are not valuable people, however, they are very valuable people because of course someone should also prepare the gill for the pipe to be placed. I remember, my father was a long-time craftsman, they used to be greasy as fuses, so to speak, there are still diagnostics today, there are many devices that make it easier to work and easier to carry out all those tasks they have ahead of them. But when we talk about craftsmanship and craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia, we must bear in mind, first, that many craftsmen have become emergency craftsmen, so there is an emergency entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. It's not like in developed countries that people went to entrepreneurship because they had good ideas so they wanted to improve those ideas. And here, of course, people had ideas, but it wasn't an exclusive motive, it was simply the most common motive that they were left without a job, that they had to survive and then they tried to make it on the market, make a profit and pay, and then it was either that they founded businesses or crafts, and in particular, someone here said those craftsmen who were traditionally, so from parents to children, where those turns are being passed on. When we talk about tied crafts, then we have a few things important, here we are today talking about the very conditions of education, so the scientific exam that precedes, which is actually coming to the end of school, is preceding the future master's exam which after 2 years of working in the profession will certainly want and be able to take. So it's something that now's students, future craftsmen must be able to do, and in this sense I welcome that the unification of this scientific exam, that it replaces the auxiliary exam and the final work, that it is one scientific exam that will then mark the end of schooling and start to have competences so that the student can work. As for mentors in the economy who need to lead these scientists, I welcome the same easier exams, so the competences they must have as mentors, the same thing to be welcomed because the assumption is that in practice people are doing tens of years, that they certainly have a lot of knowledge and skills that are enough to help students learn these skills, along with a course of education system that enables them and other knowledge that we must not ignore and hence fear and fear, that I said last time in the debate, one can decide from the Ministry of Economy that a member of a professional school does not have to learn Croatian because it is unnecessary or mathematics, of course we are talking about sustainability but certainly the Ministry of Science and Education there should have a role. I'll tell you one thing, it really happened, so it's not made up, in Germany one traditional company, I don't know what properties they have in turn, but the company that was involved in the sale of cars, the car house is when it's when it's like lying, the old boss went and retired, he left his son's business, and he assumed the following that in contact with clients he shouldn't be an employee because it's a cost for the company so he'll hire students and they'll answer the phone. It happened that after that intervention, 30% of the companies themselves dropped traffic because the people, the clients who had been doing business with that house for ten years after 10 or 15, 20 years, the man regularly bought a car with them, when he called the company and asked for some benefits or services, then the young man who was there asked him where you lived. Look, after all these years of doing business together, this guy asks him where he lives. He was offended and there was no further cooperation. Why am I speaking that example? Because education only goes beyond the part that we need the technical competences themselves, the ones that matter to the ropes of the profession. It does, however, give a broader aspect, again, stressing pedagogy as science, methodics, didactics, everything that a future young man needs, an educated man, so that he can complete all those tasks that are ahead of him in the labour market. The craftsmanship is not easy, administration or red tape however you like to put pressure on the Republic of Croatia, in that sense, let's say that this law should make the part easier because when a craftsman moves into business itself, then comes across a series of obstacles in part and because we are prescribing EU directives, I will not say anything but a lot of things that sometimes make it difficult or complicated things, and gives significant costs so that, I don't know, for the potato warehouse, you need to change each one, and now I don't know what time period there is, as if they're going to wrap just for a year or two so old that they'll be unusable and these things, you need to make sure that when people enter entrepreneurship, that the case has to be so difficult for them to do so much work. It's easier to close it, to liquidate but when it comes to the craftsman then it's all about his OIB and then there are significant problems because he can't just avoid those debts he has. So this legal solution can be called good but in the work in which it excludes the Ministry of Science and Education, it is not the best solution because the Ministry of Science and Education has to worry about education, so here and let's say it's also an vocational education and that's what it has to do to cooperate with entrepreneurs because the Ministry of Economy has to cooperate with entrepreneurs, you have cooperation and that's in the scope of your work and let's say now and in a rougher way, you're actually taking over the work of the Ministry of Science and Education and it shouldn't because here is the message the Ministry of Science and Education is not doing its job and in that sense it's not a good message. I welcome all other solutions and once again, it is important that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, as someone here has said, be truly to the benefit of craftsmen because many craftsmen, that is true, they complain, actually do not know, and what can help us and how can we be helped at all. And it certainly can help in many ways, perhaps it is a problem for entrepreneurs who do not seek help, but it is necessary to establish this two - way communication between them. Of course, the Ministry of Economy can't do that, but you can make certain instructions, seminars or otherwise suggest it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178086	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Mark Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178087	Thank you. Dear colleague. I don't agree with you, but it's not weird at all for this club of our independent representatives in the part that you're saying exists as some kind of defined antagonism between the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Economy. I don't think that antagonism has anything but to do with an integrated view of whether we can't require the Ministry of Science and Education to edit and determine professional curricula as we can't expect the Ministry of Economy to determine, conditionally speaking, those general curricula. This is exclusively about the fact that the student of the vocational school is not seen as a single labour market server but as one belonging to the labour market, professions and educational institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178088	Dear Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178089	Thank you, colleague Vuketic. Allow me, although it is not popular to quote a philosopher, “It does not determine a man’s consciousness his position in society, but its position in society determines his consciousness. ” So when we try to explain in this context or show. Why am I saying that they're in conflict with these two ministries? Because I believe that the current state of society, therefore all that marks Croatian entrepreneurship, Croatian craftsmanship cannot be the basis for building the future of an educational picture of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why I believe that the Ministry of Science and Education must set guidelines in which education of future generations will go. If this is done by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, then there may be a situation where we meet in a vicious circle and we won't or won't get out of that circle very long.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178090	The next replica of Đujic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178091	Thank you very much. Comrade Žagar, you mentioned how it is easier for the company to close than a craftsman and we talked a lot about it here today how the craftsman basically guarantees all his assets for the business he does and basically when you type in his OIB then these debts remain even when he quits his activities they are there, while with entrepreneurs who have d.o.o. and J.D.O. It's practically only for the company. Now I'm in a dilemma, and I'm thinking that maybe even d.o.o. It was necessary to introduce that the owner or founder corresponds to his personal property because in the last 30 years we have witnessed many so - called so - called so - called property. large entrepreneurs in Croatia who are when you look at them there in the register of connected persons have 20, 30 companies with accumulated debts and debts to the Tax Administration. And you don't have a craftsman, the craftsman's only one, and he's working while he can and he's trying, if he's in trouble, then the water's over his head. While these are coming out of these problems, there may be another way to think about them as well as craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178092	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178093	Thank you. Coli Đujic, here is a very picturesque example in Slavonia compared to OPG and also d.o.o. Companies had the opportunity to take the country to a concession, after several times it happened that businesses simply liquidate themselves, due to the debt to leave, these people would later start the OPG and then they just came out as if nothing had happened before. And those who had an OPG couldn't find themselves in such a situation because they're just similar to the twists corresponding to what they have. And that's the fundamental difference, you should think about how someone can send 3, 4 companies into bankruptcy or liquidation, and then still operate only in other ways, and even he can eventually open the craftsmanship and then work as a craftsman at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178094	The next individual debate is the respected representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178095	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I welcome the representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. Since this is my individual debate that came to an end, then I am in front of a false doubt to repeat everything others have said, and since I do not like to repeat what I said, let alone what others say, then I will only highlight a few points from this debate that I consider necessary to say. First of all, this law is a good law and I support it. It's a law if we're going to time-determin the needs that we should have met since 2003, so let's say for the next 5 to 10 years. We don't know, nobody knows or theorists who are trying to guess in which direction the market is going to develop in which direction the labour needs will develop, which interests will survive no one dares to predict because unlike the previous revolutions in which we were found, there was no expression of what is today expressed, and that is the unnecessary labour force. We in crafty occupations if we observe what is happening now in Scandinavian countries, Scandinavian countries come with a parole that wants to take care of workers, not jobs. And that parole is aimed at developing artificial intelligence, information technology, biotechnology to finance its requalification over 2 to 3 years with every worker whose job is no longer needed on the market. With this problem, we will face, these problems that are highlighted today, I am afraid that the problems that do not take into account enough practical distinctions and colleagues have repeatedly highlighted this dispute between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Education. I don't see it at all, I don't see it because I see it in this document and this law. Cooperation consists of the integration of content arising from the profession and teaching itself, which is 70% and the general educational programme, which is 30%. I think that if this ratio is implemented truly in quality and if all institutions are involved in its implementation that it will enable current students, future scientists and masters to master basic knowledge, skills, to manage the labour market, but to be open to the adoption of new skills, new skills and opportunities and almost certainness that transformation will take place, the need to transform current knowledge because it will not survive on the labour market, simply because there will be no need and no more, it is almost out of the concept of what we call a safe job or a job that will follow someone 40 years that corresponds to an average working age. So we have to leave a lot of illusions, we've almost discussed here that, in some discussions, I've noticed something called a class enemy in Marxist literature. It's gone. A fellow quoted Marx, a philosopher, Marx had class enemies, we now have no class enemies, we have the need to cooperate, to adapt, to get evolution to affect both our view and our working abilities and the market and that we have public policies that are able to Anticipe everything that brings us the future. The future will not appear suddenly because fortunately we are not in a world that is created by the evil forces of the returnees, but we are in a world that is in one temporal continuity, we are in time. Nothing will overcome us so quickly except our own illusions that can break us. Their own illusions stem from these class enemies, their own illusions stem from what we are unable to fully introduce these concepts. Since the exam and the quality of the scientific and final exam under the National Centre for External Evaluation should not be afraid at all that secondary vocational schools are not schools, that secondary vocational schools have become branches of the Ministry of Trade, and that students in those schools have become only one of the unprotected products between human and some tool, it is not. And what Sabina Glasovac's colleague said would really have to make sure that students are not exploited in their practice and the adoption of knowledge because they are not here to demonstrate a reducing humanity or that they become one form of farmers in those who should teach them the profession, which is why this is not happening, because there are no more class enemies, let's forget these concepts. Class enemies are gone, we have a friendly or capable ministry in this case two ministries because these ministries are gone, if these ministries don't have only the market will show not that there was no need for labour, but that there was no need for political reflection and definition of this important area. Finally, I promised not to take advantage of this all the time, so I have to stick to this promise, see this law as a good law, see as a law that shows the cooperation of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Science and Education and see a law which is aware of the value of professional professions and which is of value that also the fact that vocational education is achieved at school and in collaboration with the profession itself, not by reducing the profession of school and school on the profession. And for this reason, I can only commend at this stage, one of those short-term ones, and I think that this law corresponds to the need and anti-cipulation of the future where we go from the level of vocational education and from the level of the very need for expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178096	Your exposure caused more replicas, so let's take it in a row. He is the first respected representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178097	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Marko, being a craftsman is a responsible business, every craftsman who starts to be a craftsman must invest his assets, must answer his own assets, and who risks it know that he has big, big obligations in relation to companies we know as functioning. You were talking about the labour force on Scandinavia, we don't have the workforce, you can't find any more electricians, locksmiths, carpenters, masons, no more. Who's to blame? Well, politics so far and how it's done in this country. Why the Scandinavian countries, you mentioned them, as they function, you know it's unnatural to steal, unnatural, raised not to steal. And where are we? How do we grow up? You can't pay me as little as I can to work, steal anything won't happen, and that's the question. All questions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178098	Dear Representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178099	Thank you. Dear fellow, it is in this particular case that the replica shows the need to introduce conceptual distinctions because the concepts of dysstances correspond to different levels of reality. What you're talking about falls under the work ethic and values that exist in society, and the values that exist in society are not directly related to this law, but in an indirect sense it concerns whether if you accept the value of having to work, that it is not necessary and that it is not necessary to deceive the state and thus spread because of your own egotism and greed social injustice then it is a mature society, but a mature society that realizes that craftsmen are not only craftsmen but that they have other needs, cultural needs, that they have human social needs, and that man must not be reduced to a craftsman alone, I think that this law He sees it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178100	The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178101	Thank you. Col. Vučetić, the belief you spoke to has convinced me now that this is even in the perseverance of the conflict, but I am still afraid that when I try to think about why I am afraid that it is not anxiety but quite fear, then I rationally come to the conclusion of the next, the Republic of Croatia is not a homogeneous whole, it is heterogeneous, 4 Slavonian County, except Osijek-Baranja which is something small from, it is still below the average in the Republic of Slovenia, 4 Slavonian counties have the smallest number of entrepreneurs per 1,000 inhabitants or 1,000, an even smaller number of 1,000 workers. That entrepreneurship can't take the role of training future, future craftsmen to get us out of this bad situation, that's my position and I think it's, I don't think I'm wrong here. The one who can get us out is the Ministry of Science and Education with active policies, strategies that will then lead to Slavonia being a region that still has a different picture than today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178102	Dear Representative Vučetic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178103	I thank you, it really is about fear, not anxiety, because by definition, fear is when we fear something familiar, and anxiety is when we fear something, and we do not know what it is and what attracts us and rejects us at the same time. I wish that in this case you were concerned about anxiety, not fear, but because it is about fear and can be defined, then what is really bothering you is that the Republic of Croatia is not divided into regions and that you do not think that craftsmanship does not work and vocational education, but that there is a developmental one destruction of different areas in the Republic because the Republic of Croatia is not territorially reorganised as it should be guaranteed development, but the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia will never be defined by these or similar laws, so that your fear is aimed at another ministry and other areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178104	The next replica of the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178105	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Vučetić, you said that we cannot predict what the labour market will look like in the future and that what is called a safe workplace no longer exists, and all in the spirit of new technologies and advancements. I'm not so skeptical when it comes to twists, so every day when I talk to people, people say that today is hard to find exactly the people who have these skills and good and who are good electricians, carpenters and, and, and who do this job well. Therefore, I think that with all the new technologies and skills for such people who do their job in quality, and usually do it through turns, there will always be needs in 10 years. And for 20 and 30. Why are they getting less and less about talking about it, so that's what business conditions, market, environment affect, but that's why we're here to change these things and to preserve these jobs and to protect such crafts simply for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178106	The next replica, the response of the respected representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178107	Thanks to a respected colleague, we agreed that I was saying that not that it is not possible to fully find ourselves at the level of ignorance that the market will look like because only the labour market needs are in time, but our time, the time that develops is time of artificial intelligence, robotics, automation. All these realities will necessarily enter both entrepreneurship and professional occupations and only those entrepreneurs, those craftsmen and workers who work in professional professions, who will adopt new titles, new knowledge, will be able and in the future to be electricians, plumbers and what is needed. Those who do not adapt, which means adapting to the adoption of knowledge, will not be able to survive on the market because the need for their knowledge will be docked in the next 5, 10, 15 years old. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178108	The next replicas of the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178109	Thank you. As a country, you have rightly recognized this pace of change in the market and the need to make the same and jump, I think that as a country, we must strive to be as quick as possible and exactly the intensity of full curricula reform in part of vocational education as well as to assume that the enrolment of students is regardless of the professional 4-year or craftsmanship, the entry into the sector, so in the first two years of professional education, he would learn a general something related to the sector, under the sector, also in the first year of craftsmanship, and then he would have to re-start with a 3-year or 4-year-old education to acquire a new, new qualification. With competence centers, which are foreseen from these regional competence centers, I think we can successfully build temples and vocational education, but along with economic operators, if I've figured you out in which direction you've been going. I'm giving myself the right not to. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178110	The answer of the respected representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178111	So since my colleague Sabina just asked to verify the truth about what she said, I'm verifying her testimony as true, that's really what I meant, here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178112	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178113	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow crafts are essentially the key to development and this is the fact that since education and market needs have not been harmonised today we have here and recently decided that we have 78,000 new licenses for hiring foreigners have our people gone away so we can talk about the crafts that are listed here by carpenters, the builder is simply not our education was in line with the needs of the market. And there was a big problem. The problem is what when we look at here, let's say Switzerland, which is a democratic state, which has an economic, developed state where people live, have the quality of life far ahead of us is simply the turn of the main driver of that state and that society. In the Republic of Croatia, we have a problem that because of the inconsistencies, because of import lobbies, because of the destruction of agriculture, we have no butchers, we have some craftsmen, we have butchers in Kaufland or in other shops with very low wages, but we no longer have as a former example in my Sinj that was, they were known as butchers because there were a lot of cattle, so it just means a whole of a bunch of destroyers in political structures, of the pests that they were good at importing lobbys, they destroyed a lot of twists, so here I thought of butchers. Before, there was a large number of butchers in Sinj, when the square of Split received a salary all came to Sinj to take quality, domestic meat into the butcher’s craftsmen. And today it's trade chains, import lobbys that import harmful pork, who knows how to feed, means one broad, wide-ranging leprosy of problems. And the craftsman was brought here to be able to deal with some other activity, if he has some kind of capital to deal with tourism or I don't know what to do or go out with. That's why we have today in the RH 2/3 of Croatia empty, which is why today we have 5% of the GDP of the foreign sign, because we destroyed the craftsman, the man who created it. It's a question and in construction, we're building the Peljeski bridge today, no more of our people who could be, there could be our companies involved, but our craftsmen and who are engaged in the craftsmanship, but no more now the Chinese. So I think that education in line with the market is the final moment because what I said in this year is a total of 103,000 work permits was given to foreign workers at the same time that our workers were going outside that were quite high-quality, but here are import lobbys, non-recognition, meaning politics didn't recognize the moment how the triba develops this society, that the drivers of creating new values and masons and carpenters and electricians and roofers and all those, plumbers, all those who are engaged in this activity, carpenters, so here we have cleavers, for example. It was also a poor activity that was appreciated. However, today it has been brought to the edge, on the edge we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, unfortunately importing people who are schooling outside, where our craftsmen this where ours, which means lower will be paid, our craftsmen simply won't be able to and this few left by the carpenters, very few. I repeat again I can only say on the example of my Son, we do not have very little butcher school, for example. And it's not humiliation, it's because if we have a lot of butchers, it means that we have developed agriculture, but domestic agriculture, before that, we have no cattle, we don't have, I repeat, because the import lobbys of the vermin of this society, but it's located in the ministries, it didn't come from space projects of these digital robotic projects dealing with space projects and space budgets of star tracking as they move and whether the comet might hit our country, but living people in reality here on earth who robbed this country have destroyed all the craftsmen, people who created on their hands new values, and all to create a few The rich who received in their pocket the greasy money as a smuggling lobby. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178114	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Economy Minister Darko Horvat will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178115	Thank you, Vice President. So here in these few minutes of closing words, first let all of you who have taken the word and participated in the debate, which you have constructively proposed and between the first and second readings have influenced that law and nomotechnically but also structurally, thanks to clubs and individual parliamentary representatives that I consider to be their constructive contribution, which we have shown and by adopting a large part of the remarks that we have received, we have contributed to Croatia in 2019 to obtaining a quality Law on crafts as one we can freely call a transitional solution in its space and transforming the single model of education into something that Croatia wants, in what Western Europe has, and this is a quality system of dual education. I can't help thinking that we've been listening here today in the assembly to those I've been looking at through them like this might consider to be imaginary creations because, by chance today, they're parliamentary representatives in 2013. were Ministers and in 2013 In the law they introduced mandatory membership and chamber contributions up to a maximum of 2%, and today they lost their memory, so in '13. They're somewhere far, far from today. The same claim was made in 2015. They cut the craftsmanship, and they did what with the legal proposal? The format of the crafts from A3 reduced to A4 and until these changes were adopted and the addition of the crafts was a living document, and now we will abolish it because we believe that at a time or year so-called. digital transformation paper form of document in the Republic of Croatia is simply not needed anymore. I had a few debates today that we would say were very few, and we would agree completely with them. So we had a Croatian history in which the Ministry of Science decided everything and links to the economy and the real sector were not. What we would like one day, which is a German model in which all the conditions and links between the economy and secondary vocational education are exclusively and exclusively in the Ministry of Economy. We are today in this law in a transition phase within which, for those who may not understand me until the end, the Ministry of Science and Education prescribes standards of interest, and the Ministry of Economy defines the curricula in a way that the real business sector is the basis for the definition of curricula adequate to knowledge and skills as today, not only craftsmen, but also companies need. The fear that we left the system uncontrollable goes in favor of this and one very specific article where we said no and those who get a licence cannot have it for life, every 7 years. the story will have to be prescribed and the license renewed. What we have ruled out is that the final exam or completion of secondary vocational education only and exclusively in the section of vocational education related to crafts has a scientific exam as an integral part of the final work and in communication with the directors of secondary vocational schools we will create a model where we will define the finality in a maximum of two days, in one examination of theoretical general and theoretical expertise and in the other, regardless of whether it happened in a secondary vocational school or in entrepreneurs and craftsmen, a verification of the practical work of knowledge which the skills are taught in the learning system. Who's supposed to check out that professional section? We believe that a child who is educated in a system of tied crafts has a mentor in a school that monitors it through 3 years, at the time when he or she goes to a practical part or to a teaching company or a company has a mentor who monitors what the child does in a craft or a company and then has a verifier or system that has to round up this external evaluation and such a commission today or tomorrow will give the child the legitimacy to appear on the labour market. There is another moment that we want not only with this law, but also with the money that we have provided to finance such a system of education, that this company and this craftsman are not training a child for the labour market but only for their own needs and when the mentor prepares 3.g. a child who will tomorrow become an employee of that craft or of a company then that child will not in practice clean the plates, will not place the floor, but will create or learn the competences he needs to have before those two days of verification while he was a student, after that two days of verification become a worker and employee of that company or crafts. Another important thing for us, by promoting craftsmanship or those interests that we will take in the medium vocational education system for tied crafts, entrepreneurs who want to be part of this education, we want to disburse not only administratively but also financially, so all those who want to participate in the process of creating a quality worker for their needs, all those financial expenditures, and at least 80% of such expenditure, we want to pay the entrepreneur back in a way that already in this school year we have 5500 scholarship applications that will be 100% higher than in the last school year, 1.500,00 kn per month or 18.000,00 kn per year. We will enable the entrepreneur to return up to 500,000,00 kn 80% of what he gives the student as a reward and 80% of what he pays the mentor for such education to the entrepreneur and not from the state budget, but from the EU Structural Fund. And third thing, I accept the suggestion and thank you for it. Promotion, promotion, promotion and our wing “Where there are arms and professions” is spinning and presenting the creation of a product with a large share of handiwork and craft skills or the interest of tied crafts through several segments of promotion, but not only because of that but also other things that open in 2019 here on the labour market in Croatia we have almost a thousand students enrolled more in secondary vocational schools than it was in 2018. The chamber and the chamber system, so I'm going to skip politicizing and all the effects behind it. Here it was well said, when you take the right to be aware that you are also taking a commitment. So we want the chamber system and the craftsman and the Chamber of Commerce with a certain part of the public authority, which is a certain authority, but a very large obligation because tomorrow when that child comes to the company or crafts, and the one who will take him to work realizes that this child does not know the difference between a simple or cross-scraper, a combination or a spicang will not be their fault, but those who have worked quality or not quality with that child for three years, and the entrepreneurs themselves who are given the opportunity both directly and through the chamber system to be part of such a process. I've read it in my opening statement and I've got a chance to repeat it and I'll finish it. So, the transformation of something that is 30 years west of Croatia into an orderly dual education that I believe Croatia is ready and prepared, which I believe is necessary in Croatia and which I believe is needed in Croatia, a consensus, a real entrepreneurship sector, a Croatian academic community and those who, at local or central level, create frameworks within which we define the rules of conduct. The integrity of today's Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Science and Education is not only necessary, it is necessary, but with clearly defined fences, with clearly defined powers, and then with the right to criticise if such a system is not being implemented here in Croatia. So this law defines the need to create a commission, defines the modality to which this commission will be built, defines its role throughout the system. It therefore prescribes the quality assurance of the performance of the scientific examination and the external evaluation of this process by the competent external evaluation agency of education. It prescribes ensuring the quality of the teaching exercise through the formation of an independent body composed of key stakeholders, the Ministry of Defence, the HOK, the HGK and the agencies responsible for vocational education. Well, I'd like to see that when such a body comes out for a moment and finds that the child who was on the teaching system has not been paid a fee, that the child is working under conditions that are not adequate or compatible for him when that commission decides to lift a license for such a company, then I'd like to know who the craftsman or such owner of a company will be able to recover that license one day. And what is important, at this time, by creating a system for payment of scholarships, for the payment of fees to children or mentors, we create an obligation to pay first and initially by entrepreneurs and the compensation to children or mentors, and as a verifier of such payments, to provide a valid document based on the basis of which we will pay the entrepreneur in the 80% amount at that time and return it. And just another brief, brief clarification. So the legitimacy that in these three years we know what we're doing in the craftsman's segment shows figures. In 2017, the final year in which 1486 crafts opened more than closed in 2018 was 4195, with today's day in 2019, that figure was 7735. So, if we have had a crisis, these are the verifiers that we come out of this crisis, these are the verifiers that we return craftsmanship and craftsmen to that place in society and in the economy that they deserve, and the mechanism of responsibility in legal and physical persons very well know those who are legal professionals and thus deal with it, so the integrity of craftsmen as a physical person and the integrity and integrity and ownership structures, unlike legal personality, where in legal personality there are those who have legal personality and who have legal personality activities or control or manage it from a legal aspect very, very different, very different and therefore one vertical in the Law on Commercial Society, and the other vertical in the Law on crafts. I will thank you once again to all of you who, in any way, are just another, another, another, another, short sentence about today's debate, so we are taxing the entrepreneurs for the fourth year in a row, with the third year in a row redundancy of entrepreneurs, while at this point we are working on the liberalisation of services, while we are in the final phase of the preparation of the first action plan for the abolition of the part and the reduction of part of non-taxable giving, I must make it clear to the Croatian public that 2019. A functioning integrated single state inspectorate, the legal activity of the inspector who is the subject of today's debate was very taxing in Articles 70 to 72 where we said, and there were a lot of those who opposed it, taxed which are or which is the category of offences that the inspector on the spot can identify, but should not punish the entrepreneur for it. So anything that can be removed on the spot cannot be punishable, anything that can be removed within the legal time limit of 8 days until the time when certain indictments are launched can not be punishable. Anything that can be removed within the legal time limit of the prescribed solution cannot be punished, but if errors are repeated, if they are conflicting and intentional then the words of some MPs here and I agree with them to create the same rules for all, such entrepreneurs must also be punished. Dear Vice President, thank you all for a constructive day, four-and-a-half hours of constructive debate, I said at the very beginning of my presentation, we had one amendment of nomotechnical nature, we agree with it and we accept it, and I also ask the clubs to support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178116	Thank you very much, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178117	Thank you, Vice President HS. Col. Horvat, the respected Ministers of Col. Horvat, all of what you've said can be agreed, the craftsman is an honor and should know, continue with the team you've been taking, return the trust of the citizens we've lost so far, I personally think we don't have to be afraid of rich craftsmen or wealthy entrepreneurs if we're legally performing in the country and if we're legally watching it, continue the same way you've been so far, and I think that this country can have trust and that our citizens need to trust and return if we continue on that path, if we continue something else, then everything remains the same as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178118	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178119	Thank you very much. We agree that the craftsmanship is very, very important and we agree that the craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia has been destroyed and the question of whether these laws will be able to implement, as they will be, we believe that craftsmanship will return. However, I raised a line to this when you said it was good, the only good thing that was one of the good ones in 2019 was the state inspectorate of what is under one cap now all inspectors. Yes, you did very well, you provided the opportunity for Andrija Mikulić to be the campaign manager in Zagreb and to oversee the entrepreneurs, so obviously you assured that there will be no pressure or punishment at all, but you also provided the possibility if you lack the funds in the campaign to ensure that through this pressure you are aware of the Minister that we have discussed here for 3 months the unification of Lex Mikulić,... Andrija Mikulić and the control of entrepreneurs and craftsmen who will pay obviously in the campaign is connected here to conflict of interest [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Man runs a campaign of presidents who [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178120	We will conclude this debate, and we will vote on it when the terms of this bill are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178121	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.06 HOURS]] First, the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on crafts, second reading, P.Z. No. 749. Comrade Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178122	I'd like to just ask for a break. We have an extensive voting plan here. Please, colleagues, dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178123	Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's hear why my colleague Glasovic is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178124	Just for a little while, there's law, that's a comprehensive plan. I'm looking for a club consult to take a closer look at two laws to see how we vote. And at the end of what Mr. Zekanovic said, you all got this... voter's note and you got the Lady on the fridge for militant atheists to remember what Christmas is, not that Santa Claus. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178125	I didn't understand what you wanted. What's the reason for the break?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178126	Stanka, yes, I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178127	And why are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178128	For a consultation on three laws. We don't know how we're gonna vote yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178129	What laws?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178130	Well, one is the Armed Forces Act, the other is GMO food and third is related to climate change.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178131	But that's what you'll ask when we get to those laws. So break, well, you can look for now, okay. Is he looking for another break about something? Okay. When we get to the first law of fellow Glasovic you mentioned, it's the Law on Armed Forces then we'll give a break because it's a practice. So, first is the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on crafts, second reading, P.Z. No. 749. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, during the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Committee and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on crafts. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 81 for, 15 abstentions and 31 against the Law on Amendments to the Law on Trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178132	Now we will move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Executive Law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 676 fellow Bulls, can we? You don't yell from the bench, do you? The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Justice. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Honorable Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178133	Mr. Vice-President, the honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs, here we are, therefore, facing the final proposal of the Executive Act and what I want right away in the beginning of the word, this final proposal we have not greatly deviated from what we already represent for more than a year and at public debates and round tables and what is most crucial perhaps the purpose of this law is to return that part of the exercise to the jurisdiction of municipal courts on the basis of a credible document. Clearly, this was preceded by a decision by the Court of Justice of the EU which said that public notaries who have been authorised in the process so far and who are making decisions on the basis of a credible document, that decision of the Court of Justice of the EU has prescribed that they cannot make decisions in this case. Another important decision that speaks, and it concerns actually the right of the debtor to know that he is obliged and that an executive procedure is being initiated against him. These two things we solved primarily in this law in a way that we still kept public notebooks as commissioners of the court, we kept FINA as the one who does the technical part of the collection and transfer of funds from one account to another. So the public notary he will remain in office of the Commissioner of the Court and best in one practical way describe how the procedure will go. The procedure will be fully digitised, forms will be prescribed for all the actions taken in the exercise, so the proposal will be filled in, the proposal for implementation comes by electronic means to the court, the court delivers it to the public notary, the notary then undertakes that important action he must inform the debtor that a proposal for an action has been submitted against him and in this procedure the debtor has several options if he agrees with it, will settle the account and will not actually be able to implement it. If he objects, if he objects that it does not stand, then the process is turned and we are going to the litigation phase where we are going to carry out all those necessary evidence actions to determine whether someone is obliged or not. If none of these two options, if they are completely ignored and the debtors do not answer, then in that case we will proceed. And after that, when the decision is made, the debtor can object, and then we're in a lawsuit again. What's important is to say, I think we've made big steps here and kept some of the standards of protection that we have today, which is the protection of the only real estate where the principle of law is that there is no enforcement in the only real estate. It is clear that it is the right of the owner of the property to have that property and to mortgage it, then it comes to enforcement. However, if there is even the worst thing that the execution knows to be sold and there is no place to be, then this provision is in force today, with the state for 18 months, taking care and paying the rent for someone who has lost their property, and that deadline, of course, he can manage. There is also an entire spectrum of income that we have excluded from the exercise. We also have a provision today to protect a certain part of the salary, which is three quarters if it is up to the average salary, and if it is higher than that then that amount cannot exceed two-thirds of the average wage, that is what we protect. Also, on top of this, we can't go goddesses, resurrections, field supplement, now in the second reading we add even a warm meal, we think that these are all incomes that shouldn't be completed, but that these are incomes, I don't know a diary about some way that it's wrong that a man from that journal can't settle some needs. To return again, it is a very important provision that we raise the protection of debtors in a timely manner because in the current system where we have over 300,000 blocked there have been very large objections that the performances were carried out, and that no one knew anything, that no one knew that the execution was being initiated, that it was at all due and that we are now introducing that the public notary in that pre-phase must inform the debtor by the conclusion. For the first time if he succeeds in office, if not then we prescribe that a second time is required. Only for the third time if he does not want to go to the post office to take over, for the third time we publish this on the e-pages and still put it in the mailbox notice that a proposal has been submitted against him. We also accept nomotechnical improvements from our Legislative Committee in relation to our first reading, and we nomotechnically regulate this law. We also introduce that obligation regarding the conduct of the procedure when someone has initiated a procedure to determine the integrity of the act of a contract, for example on the basis of which the application is conducted. If the procedure has already been initiated, the action is then an obligation for us to put an end to it within the exercise and to postpone the exercise until the dispute has been settled. In the case of consumer contracts, we also add to this if the procedure is not initiated, then the court is obliged to decide where a 30-day period is given for such proceedings to be initiated and after that a decision is also taken to postpone the implementation until the finalisation of this dispute is finalised. So the law remained the same in its concept compared to the first reading. I think it's very important that the performance is digitized, it's something we have to introduce, we introduce it into many segments of court proceedings. In commercial courts, it will become a soon-to-be provision for municipal courts, which will have to be respected, which is e-communication. That's where we'll get the speed, the efficiency. It is also important to lower the costs of handling, for example today is one of the costs for a lawyer to draw up a proposal for a performance and this depends on the value of the dispute the amount of the fee. Now it will no longer be a composition of the proposal for the performance, but we have a pattern that will simply be filled out and that no longer has that kind of cost. And today the confirmation of power is also being charged because such actions will be digitized no longer be necessary and on that side we will cut costs and we will so intend to unify them in a way that one kind of cost is fixed for those executions up to 5.00 kn and the other for those over 5.00 kn. So I think that this is one of these sustainable systems that we first aligned with the decision, with the decisions of the EU court, I think that we have taken a big step in digitising, simplifying and lagging, the instruments of protection of debtors I think are extremely large, the real estate we protect in several ways, so we also have a provision that we can't run the application for those claims up to 40.000,00 kn capital when we add the cost and interest to that, that's even more, for such claims can't go to the real estate, the whole series of receipts of debtors we protect and exempt from the exercise, so I think that this bill has managed to balance the system and manage to satisfy everything that was actually, which was a problem with the EU court ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178134	Thank you very much, we have a whole series of replicas, but my colleague Grumo is raising his hand, he's probably looking for a break, isn't he?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178135	Thank you, dear Minister, and you're aware that with these changes, you're not going to achieve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178136	A fellow Grmo?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178137	I'm looking for a break...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178138	You're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178139	...on behalf of the MOST Club in order to consult these legal changes that are not going to be achieved, we have a huge number of blocked people, we have a situation that unfortunately all laws go to the hands of public notebooks and lawyers to whom this is a luxuriant job. What needs to be done is to exclude them from the procedure of enforcement, to consider also the abolition of the FINA as such, as well as a series of amendments that we had two years ago. I think that, that the law was passed on to the executive law, you now accept some of these amendments. Then we suggested an amount of 50,000,00 kn, then you refused, now you're proposing 40.000,00 kn capital when you can't complete the property. So, that's, I'd say, the tiny adjustments you're making now in the election year, which nothing will change. We also have procedures that last too long, if the demand can't be charged within 10 years, we've had an amendment like that, we need to suspend this procedure, we can't keep people in debt slavery for years because what are we doing? We're driving them out of the Republic of Croatia, we're not going to achieve anything, nor are those who want to be charged, we're going to charge them, we're going to ruin these people, and that's the law. Let's remember the Law on HRT that was adopted on the MOST initiative, we've thrown out public notebooks and lawyers and what you're doing after we leave the government, the Constitutional Court is breaking the law, and everything in the dictatorship of HRT and these law firms with which HRT is connected, and we know who they are and the media are very powerful. Time to start working in Croatian interest People, not powerful lobbys. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178140	The next break was requested, I assume, by the SDP, by the honourable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178141	So, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I would like to ask a 10-minute recess to consult again on this item of the agenda, so on the Executive Act. What seems to us when we read this law is as if a political decision had been made to change something in the law, and those who were in charge of it did not know what to do and then took the law, they began to list it and mess it up and so they messed up what's right in front of us. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a system that has so far had one participant, public notebooks, and now, instead of one participant, there will be two, a court and public notebooks who will have to communicate and exchange data and decisions, cannot be faster than the system so far, cannot be more efficient, can not be cheaper, the only thing that can be more complicated and expensive. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the system you have proposed is bad for everyone who participates in it, it is bad for the debtors because due to the length of the procedure, the interest they will have to pay will have to be increased, it is bad for the believers because they will have to pay for their claims, it is bad for the state because it will add to the courts and ultimately it is bad for the citizens because they will eventually have to pay everything. And therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, don't do this, the only good that we have in the bill is a delay until July next year of its entry into force, so there's still hope that in the meantime we'll be able to change the power of this harmful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178142	The hand is raised and respected representative Alexic, I presume on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, etc. Is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178143	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, on behalf of the HSU Club of the SNAGA, the Independent Representatives and the New Policy, for asking for a break to reconsider the harmfulness of the final proposal of the Executive Law. None of the proposals I have made and which we have referred from the opposition to the additions of this final proposal have been accepted, unfortunately this continues to be favourable to the executive business because unfortunately, the right direction of the executive business is created in which billions of kunas are earned, the lawyers earning, and not all of them, but especially the lawyers who have been monopolized in some way by large legal persons, this is where FINA earns, this is where the public notes earn, there and the believer earns on tight interest, because the procedure is long-term, no proposals have been accepted to stop the growth of tight interest, no proposal is accepted to reverse the order of payment of debt, even what the minister says has to be accepted for the ruling of the EU Court of Justice C-407/18, he is wrongly saying that I do not know that I am simply saying that the word that it is not possible for me to write that the word that the law that That's where the sea is missing. And in that sense, the law is harmful, and we as a club will not support it. I will personally support this final proposal only in case these amendments are accepted which I will propose during the debate. I'm looking for a break to reconsider the harmfulness of the final proposal of the Executive Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178144	Thank you. And the respected representative Zekanovic raised his hand, probably on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178145	I'm also looking for a break for additional consultations at the Croatian Sovereigns Club. I would like to point out once again that it is one of the key problems for the Croatian state and the Croatian people. And I don't see the Croatian government on this issue doing those radical moves that should be made. I'll repeat just a few figures to stay in the media space. 300,000 Croatian citizens have been completed in one way or another, 300,000, so we are talking about 10% of the adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia, our country of Croatia, who are affected by this problem. And we as a sovereign state must be able to solve this problem, and we do not solve it. We're taping in place. It's about 30 billion kunas of money that's been made, it's more than 5 million tons, and there's no solution. So if Croatian society today, Croatian builds, Croats and Croats have a problem, then they have a problem with the performance. And I, with neither this bill nor the previous measures, see that it is the Croatian government, will be specific to our Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, who cares about solving this problem. And I will point out, to every sovereign country that cares about its people, key problems are being solved, and this problem is not being solved. So I call on you, in this mandate, if possible, to a little bit encourage the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, to repeat the problem 300,000 times, the people who have found themselves in this problem to finally get rid of it because this is simply not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178146	Thank you very much. Of course I'll take a break, and I'll see you again at 3:00. MEETING IN 14.48 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178147	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.05 HOURS]] We have several replicas, first Mrs. Snow White Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178148	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Bošnjakovic, the other day I spoke to you as a representative and representative of the citizens to try to solve Mr. Hatman's problem that was supposed to be and was delegated. I have warned you of a series of irregularities in the procedure itself and asked you to try to delay the eviction until all circumstances are established, so until all doubts of any irregularities in the procedure are removed. You promised yourself you'd stand up for this case. So you promised to help. After that, you never answered our phone again. Because of you and your policy, man ended up on the road and you're proposing to us today a new executive law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178149	Mr. Minister's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178150	It wasn't him who ended up working for me, it was because he needed to settle the debt. And this way you want, if I could call in every case court and say judge one way or another, it would be completely outside the Constitution that knows the trio of power. So as sorry as I am for everything that's been there, I don't have that authority, I don't have that jurisdiction to enter a specific object said here do it one way or another. And if we lived in a country like that, I don't think that would be right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178151	Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178152	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers Bošnjakovic, you said in your opening statement that you had corrected the bill in accordance with the EU Court's ruling C407/18 and that you suggested that the obligation to postpone the application should the procedure be conducted for unfair consumer credit. However, I have read in the law that the delay can be carried out, so that the court may postpone the order, not have to postpone it. According to the Court of Justice of the EU C407/18, it should in fact be prescribed that in the event of an unfair consumer contract proceedings, whether it is provisions or all of the contract that the delay of the property must be carried out. So please explain it a little bit better now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178153	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178154	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, we believe that our courts are qualified from case to case to case to decide when it is good to delay the implementation until dispute resolution, and when it represents in a certain way some kind of abuse. That decision otherwise provides for provisions in the EU court that the court should assess whether a contract is invalid or not. This is contrary to our system, and we think that these tools that we have given where we say if the procedure is initiated earlier, the court will evaluate and evaluate it and see if there is a delay in that case. But where it isn't, and it complains we're giving 30 days, start the procedure, file a lawsuit, and then a decision can be made to postpone the case until the dispute is over. It's usually an instrument that can actually lead to frequent abuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178155	Thank you very much. Mr. Scibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178156	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. Article 19 of these amendments and in addition paragraph 7 states that penalties cannot be replaced by work for the common good. I'm interested in why the fines can't be replaced by the work for the common good. On the contrary, I think it would be good and positive if the fines could be replaced with the work for the general good, especially when we take into account simply that people were often executed because they would get fired or there would be a breakdown of a particular firm, bankruptcy of the firm, etc. So I don't know why you didn't allow it to be replaced by work for the common good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178157	Mr. Minister's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178158	Thank you very much. The executive law has its specifics. The aim of the executive law is that all that has come to be fulfilled, whether a cash compensation, or any other act. The aim of the Executive Law is to lead to a mandatory legal relationship being realised. It should therefore be observed in a completely isolated context from some penalty provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178159	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178160	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers. So when the law is done, when some new processes are done, then the assumption is that these processes agree and see how many days are overlooked for a particular procedure. So I'm guessing that you did it in the ministry and I'm wondering how many days are scheduled for the procedure when everything goes its course, and how many days is it when someone who's going to be prosecuted and everything else is going to be held against? I'm guessing that you guys have this hodogram, today everyone who works, works in certain homes, so I'm wondering what the number of days is? Let's just say that no one complains that everything goes on during the moment when it starts until the court until the final solution is reached and then that solution has the possibility of everything else? So I'm interested at least in that part of whether you know the number of days or when the one who's done has the possibility of certain complaints and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178161	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178162	Thank you very much. This process rests on digitisation, so no more paper, no more composing of the proposal, no more mailing, no more mailing, no more mailing, no more acceptances, no more digital forms here, so you will fill the application form as a believer, it will be digitally sent to the court, digitally by the court will go to the public notary and that action that has to be fulfilled in accordance with the EU court's decision, it must be notified to the debtor that an application for enforcement has been filed against him, and then, depending on his indication, we will have to give him twice as much as possible, or once or twice, so + for the second time if he does not receive the second time, to publish on the advertisement board, only then we actually enter into the adoption of the solution itself of the operation, it must be faster than it is today and are different situations in variants a) to take the second time in version b) to accept the second time and to make the difference of c. I'm gonna have to go to the ad board. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178163	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178164	Thank you very much. The executive law in the Republic of Croatia is one of the key culprits of what the Republic of Croatia is and what we have a problem with 300,000 blocked citizens, people who have made this legislation possible because this HS even these laws that we adopt, and that is the law on the integrity of the credit agreements with international features concluded in the Republic of Croatia with unauthorized creditors that we even brought here unanimously, do not want to respect. The savings-credit cooperatives that have executed our people are still unfairly and unjustly today and the real estate is simply impossible to repay, so the law in the Republic of these savings-credit cooperatives has been violated, and our people have been brought into slavery in the interest of foreign unauthorized means of the believer. What kind of law are we talking about, what state? Are we talking? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178165	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178166	Once again, I will send a message from this place, every time you enter into a mandatory legal relationship you must enter with certainty that you will fulfill your commitment to power and you must foresee that situation risky that can lead to you personally not being able to fulfill it, but you must have a solution either through the guarantee, either through the insurance of some property that will lead to the non-damaging of the believer because if someone received the money then you must find a way to get that money back neatly and neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178167	Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178168	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I've already asked some questions in my apartment, so I'm curious as to why it didn't go into the roots, more concrete changes to the executive law, it's quite clear that no one has to argue that debts should be paid, but also these are the kind of procedures that we have that don't lead to payment debts, and people are long-term in one debt slavery, and no one has to benefit in the end, and I think that you should consider that the public notebooks should be removed, so you've now introduced another side in the process, made it difficult and extended the procedure itself, and I think that public notebooks and lawyers should be removed from the procedure and that this is the right way, here's the Slovenian model is a good example, why you don't prescribe something that works and that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178169	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178170	Your Honor, we've been listening to a lot of objections, and it's just been going to that variant of whether, remove the notebooks, put everyone in court, that all the court is working, and on the other hand we said when it comes to court, we're going to burden the court and we're going to make new pending cases, so we left the notebooks behind so we don't bury the courts and we don't suffocating their work on other cases. We now have a notary who is an assistant, assistant court and who will carry out those administrative technical tasks with which we do not want to burden the court, the court will make solutions based on all those tasks done on the other side, he will do a check and will take one electronic solution and that is one balance that we had to post, if I did not have a notary in this whole procedure of the case, then we would bury the court with new cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178171	At the end of the day, Mr. Chury.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178172	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, a few questions only, I wonder if there is at all a deadline for issuing an enforcement certificate by the court, I am interested in how the future application or automatic communication will react to cases of settlement during the executive procedure, so we also have situations within the procedure when the current perpetrators are currently resulting in the current state of debt, and not that there has been a payment of part or some amount of demand in the meantime, who will recognize it and in which system will it, in fact I am automatically able to be visible, is it a court or notary or who in this whole new procedure? Here, so the first confirmation of the executive is whether there is a deadline one and the second is regarding the settlement during the executive procedure how will this be settled?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178173	Mr. Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178174	Thank you very much. As for issuing a certificate of power, it goes by electronic means, so it goes very quickly within the e-record system we will issue and indicate that the decision is legal. As regards the recognition of whether someone paid the part or paid something it will actually be in this procedure after the conclusion where it is said that the procedure for the execution has been initiated, the debtor himself will indicate it if it is not visible elsewhere and of course it will be taken into account when issuing the decision on the performance, and if the proof is contributed that the debt is paid, then there is actually no commission, if some relevant proof is contributed that a part of the debt is paid then it will also be taken into account and a solution will be issued in accordance with the fact that the part paid is rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178175	Thank you very much. We will now take the opportunity to welcome the students and students of the First High School from Varazdin and, on the other hand, students of International Relations and Diplomacy, I suppose, from Zagreb. Thank you for being with us... There's a lot of you, there's a lot more of you than we are down here, but we're lucky you're here with us today, so there's more of us together and now I'm inviting club representatives if they want to talk. [[Applause]] The board, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Aggression: not clubs, committees]] No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, and now the clubs are really coming, and the first is Mr. Marin Schibola in front of the Independent Youth List Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178176	Thank you, Vice-President HS, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs, here is today the second reading of amendments and additions to the Executive Act, the Executive Law has been a really current topic in recent years. Why was it an actual topic? It was an ongoing topic because on the Croatian political scene and in general in civil society initiatives have started to emerge which are problematic in the public, the public's responsibilities, which are problematic to the public by this unfair enforcement system. What's important to say is also until these associations and individual political parties showed up, Croatian citizens didn't even know there was this huge problem, so the raids would happen every day, but the public wouldn't be informed about it. Why? Because Croatian media, Croatian media are dealing with peripheral things and means crucially what they are clouding the public are these ideological conflicts, ideological conflicts, ideological divisions, weights, meaning banal things, and these crucial things that are important to the economic state of the state and society, that is what is being put aside and that is what the media will not put into the public's focus. But in order for us to speak at all today about the executive law, we need to touch the debt doctrine because the executions are just a consequence of so-called "the." debt doctrine that has reached a certain escalation in the Republic of Croatia. This debt doctrine, it works on macro-region and micro-raise, on macro-region, it works in a way that the state works in order to subdue the public sector, must be in debt, means the finance minister issues state bonds on the financial market and then certain banking institutions buy these government bonds and thus be in debt to the state. What's the consequence of what's going on? The macroracial debt doctrine? The consequence is that these debts taken by the state cannot be recovered because they are huge debts and then what happens is that there is a privatisation of public property, there is privatisation of major strategic firms and thus compensation is made for the cash mass which should be returned to the banking institutions. The root of the debt doctrine lies in the intermediation, meaning in the intermediation of banks between, between state and citizens themselves, and the key problem is that the CNB does not have the possibility of creating money without borrowing. Since the CNB has no money creation without borrowing and thus covering deficits, but solely debt, we have a situation that the state is enormously in charge and I have already explained in the beginning how it is compensated. As for the micro-levels and responsibilities of Croatian citizens, these things work in a similar way, but, but, but slightly modified, means most citizens have low wages, salaries that are not enough for a decent life in the Republic of Croatia, and then they are in order to serve their needs forced to enter credit relations, so it is not the case that people are greedy, so they get into credit relations because they want more money, there are cases like that, but they are in minority, people are forced to enter credit relations, and then when they are not still financially written, they often happen to be deceived by so-called. the authority in the departments sitting in banks that are back in 95% foreign ownership and that's why we had the problem of the Swiss franc, so the problem of the Swiss franc is clear that it was going to mean targeted manipulation to push society into debt slavery and to usurp, usurp their, their assets, so these bankers, even before broadcasting these loans, knew what they would be, which will be the consequences and for all these reasons today we are talking about an executive law that should only be the means to collect these, to collect these debts. In this new Executive Act, you have made certain criticisms to Mr. Bosnakovic and said that nothing has changed since the first reading, it saddens me, because there have been a lot of proposals here in HS and the MPs have been putting out certain criticisms, then the question of our purpose and our roles here for what reason we are discussing here today, why we are giving certain ideas, amendments here, if you are ultimately not interested in anything but have an agenda of your own, but you have approximately come up with all the frameworks and you know what this Executive Act will be, means such a broad document as the Executive Law, and you will not accept anything within the meaning of this period between the first and the second reading and you come to a second reading with the same law as it was in the first reading. I don't think that's good, I don't think it's democratic, especially when it comes to one of the crucial problems facing the Republic of Croatia, which is, and these are debts, these are interest rates, and there's a lot of injustice and dishonesty, and precisely because of these debts, the performance, people are leaving the country and people don't trust the institutions at all. I've been in the replica asking you this one for an article. The 19th century 7 means why you don't allow penalties to be replaced by work for the common good, you said debts must be paid, but how these people will pay debts if they don't have from where, means why they don't offer an opportunity to work for the general good, I think it's useful for society, I think it's good, but you've limited that segment, so it's simply not in your interest that if people are already blocked, if people are in debt to somehow get a new chance, not to keep them in that oil, in the living mud, and that they can't possibly get out of this living mud and that society and the state have it. I can agree with that that there are individuals who have been irresponsiblely running their finances, but regardless of their irresponsible financial management and they deserve a second chance, a second chance as humans. The new Implementing Law increases the number of actions in the very executive procedure with undefined deadlines, which could lead to an increase in debt due to tight interest rates if the process slows down. So tight interest, you don't even mention the problem of tight interest, it's clear that the tight interest rates in the Republic of Croatia are too high and that they're one of the generators of debt slavery, they're suitable for the executive mafia, and the fact is that they should be drastically replaced. to reduce and better regulate. I'm interested in Mr. Bošnjakovic if you see this problem, if you see what you're doing in this problem, the problem, and if you don't see it on the other side, then I don't know if we live in the same country. Even claim-raising agencies believe that the procedure in which we have both public notebooks and courts is not good, but I quote, if the courts are already in place, then let the proceedings be conducted entirely by the courts. We are in a ping-pong situation between courts and public notebooks, making it difficult and delaying the whole process, and eventually we could suffer debtors again. It is good that the number of receipts that are excluded from the performance is increased, but these are just some of the things that you have improved, and these key things, you simply run away from them and the purpose of the current Implementing Law is not the actual collection of the existing debt of citizens, but it is the duty of a citizen to make it impossible to pay off a real debt because his income through numerous and fees are taken away by the FINA, public notebooks, law offices and debt collection agencies. So we have these intermediaries, we have intermediaries between courts and citizens, and what's the point of those intermediaries I'm asking you if it's not her to settle all those stakeholders. And what would be the point of including public notebooks and lawyers when it only increases costs if, as I said, it's not the point of calming down all these stakeholders and giving them some purpose that I believe is soundly non-existent, so they're like some of those priests of the executive law, intermediaries between courts and people like priests in the past charged this forgiveness of sin, so public notebooks, law offices and debt collection agencies are charging their interventions in the executive procedure. The big problem is that in this process, as I said, they accumulate various costs such as those that are the direct consequence of the debt collection agency that buys out debts continue to be charged. So it's not clear to me if the agencies are able to buy debts for which reason you don't give the debtors the right to buy these debts, it's also not clear to me, and often these debt paying agencies are in one gray zone, so we have these RBA cooperatives that brought the law into the Republic of Croatia, so they have developed one structure where public auctions appear exactly, means their informal branches that buy these properties, meaning one branched network of those structures that have broken even into state institutions, means they have infiltrated public bodies to achieve their own benefit and to garner, they're gnawing wealth, and all over the back of those weak ones, those who are loathing in debt and those who can't get, who can't get a new chance. According to our proposal, it is the courts that are responsible for the adoption of a solution on the performance and implementation of the mandate, and in order for the courts to discharge the entire system should be fully digitised. So you're going in this direction to digitize, but it's still not enough, so if that system were fully digitized, we'd be discharging the courts and removing the meaning of FINU, the public notebooks from the executive procedure, and in that way, you'd get rid of the danger of generating the judicial backlogs. This, too, digitisation is important because it meets the efficiency of mass processing requirements. Modern information technologies would remove the long-term data collection necessary to decide on an executive procedure as they would be linked by court registers with their necessary registers of proceedings. So I think there's still a lot of room to improve this executive law that you're going to vote with on Friday, but you've made some cosmetic changes that move things, but they move them a little bit, and we from the Club of Independent Youth Lists can't support those changes because they simply don't solve key problems, and the key problems are much deeper than you're offering them in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178177	Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn, in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178178	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about a key problem in the Republic of Croatia, meaning a burning problem for decades, which is essentially 300,000 blocked citizens, executive laws that have suits the most law enforcement offices, public notaries and, of course, debt seekers called a little nicer Agency for the collection of claims, which are legalized in the Republic of Croatia, which are very well organised and this is one of the consequences that today we have a huge emigration from the Republic of Croatia is simply people being brought into debt slavery. Even certain laws passed by this assembly outside the Official Law, which is the law as I said about the integrity of the loan agreement with international features concluded in the Republic of Croatia with unauthorized verifyers, the minister is familiar with the law. This law was passed unanimously here, neither was the Constitution literally passed so unanimously, not 2/3 by the majority, but by all present representatives, it seems to me that 134 MPs accepted it. However, certain structures boycott this law and through, mostly, it goes from the Croatian body to the judges, i.e. Judges who, simply according to the European Court of Justice, all seem to be the agency, i.e. the RBA savings credit cooperatives by Austrians who are banned in their countries, who cannot get close to our people easily and who persist and continue to do so in Hungary. So, I don't think it's clear to the ministers here, but if the court is.../incomprehensible/, and that's okay, in order to disburse the court, public notebooks are back on, which means that at this point we haven't done anything new because the public notebooks remain essentially as we have so far, and the court is involved. According to me in court, we have the opportunity to do this job, if I can make public notes, I don't see any reason why people inside the court can't. The judiciary, you know it better structure, that I can't do it without public notebooks because I think it increases both the costs and interest in us is literally this interest, as my colleague said in front of me, tighten interest that is before this, it's by me legalised interest, interesting our citizens and the executive law that were so far were they essentially the most endangered individuals who were simply left behind, here we see daily that people remain without their home. People of certain cosmetic changes that you've introduced, which even we suggested two years ago, the tribal is already going to be, but for a strong step here, the triba means a lot more to us. So to throw out public notebooks, so we have a mediator and a FINU, so we have lawyers and law offices that are extremely strong and influential and in public administration bodies, indirectly and directly, who are influential and in media space, so I know that you have a very hard time resisting it because you still have to keep your image from such possible or possible attacks or waiting. And that's a fact. These if we're talking about the common good, then generally good that people, you say people are obliged, no one argues that someone is obliged, but what it's like when we legalize something called a debt shaker. When we have the Agency to collect claims, which harasses the debtor, his neighbors, his family members, are harassing literally with calls because they bought out debts and the question is well asked why the first ransom in that amount, the reduced amount, because the one who was this believer would simply give this one the benefit of who paid him the debt, which is why it could not be done with the one who was in debt, the debtor. Therefore, I believe that this current bill of yours has nothing significant new, I repeat again, cosmetic changes will not lead to a reduction in the number of blocked citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Because of the executive law so far we have the only result is the executive law, the emigration of young people who are simply forced, young and old who are forced to take away their property or are being taken away from them, or are being blocked into debt slavery and are forced to leave, go outside. I'd ask you ministers to answer this question I gave in the replica, you didn't answer me on the matter of the court. The problem of RBA cooperatives and their loans where interest is here is known that on the island of Rab and many other areas, mainly coastal areas have been so impoverished by people that they simply return their wars simply return interest, and the principals remain and it is a savings-credit cooperatives that are simply in Austria where their activities are banned and do not behave there, in Hungary they are piled with interest, without any question being allowed to rob this people on this, on the basis of such concluded contracts by the people, and we are brought into it simply by citizens, but even, here you were then, you have accepted that law and because of any change that the European Court asks for or whatever they ask for, and because of what within the system of judges, I can't believe that Rodin, which has objected to a court which is at the time was in the house of interest, which is in the so much. Either on a mortgage or I don't know. Therefore, in my view, we must respect what HS comes to, we are a sovereign state, we must not allow our people from the systems that lead the processes to what it has brought HS to do to us, and we have not today put that law into practice, that is. We put it in, he gave it out of the field, it's selectively applied, mostly the people of this property are being kicked out, they're being executed by these savings-credited cooperatives, which means that this HS simply, this decision that was unanimous, I repeat the unanimous decision is not respected, and I was just walking here today, I was at the protest of the nurse and their own, looking for their rights, and there I came across a cab driver who tells me the man took the house because of the unpaid bill, okay, so much interest came in there, and those who robbed the country, they've been peeling the kumpirs for a couple of days, they bought the kumpires for a couple of days, and that's one, two, peeling the kumpires. So, they can't work for the common good, so they're done who are in their throats, to their throats simply for the rest of their lives, and their generations are this one, they'll be in charge, their future children and all, they can't work for the common good, and those who robbed the state, they've betrayed national interests, they've sold it to Judas's paupers, for some change. The huge money, but their value, they can work for the common good, and these people who simply have no way to pay, there's no way to get rid of it, that in this way people like you were told a second chance before and that by their work for the general good, there's no way to get rid of these debts and noose around their necks, noose around their necks. Here again, I'd say for certain cosmetics of these cosmetic changes, it won't make any big impact, throw out public notebooks, they're unnecessary, numerous law offices, we've got legal courts, it can be done through the trainers whatever it takes for the court, it can be done if we know how these executions are going to go, it's a synthetic, it's just changing the name and name, everything else is the same, therefore, certain things you have to change, and I expect that the laws this HS has passed, and it's about the integrity of the credit, to say in short, which are foreign savings and credit unions, and that they'll finally start to reduce the performances, i.e. the reduction of the blocked and that people will be able to live normally in the Republic of Croatia, not that they will leave this country disappointed, from their home country to other countries looking for a future for themselves and their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178179	Thank you, too. It is now Mr. Goran Aleksic's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives of the new policy, please. Those names change all the time, so I have to read this one and teach them by heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178180	Thank you, Vice President HS. Pante rei, everything changes, it's so you know, especially in HS, only power is eternal. So what do you say about this executive law? Dear Minister Bošnjaković and his associates, I know that you are aware that the Executive Law has enabled one executive business, which is now in force, the executive law has enabled the executive business in which billions of kuna is made, and not at the return of debts, but at the very extra costs that come from debts, so the believer makes on tight interest, individual law offices that are, as I must say, monopolized, earn huge money because they represent large legal persons, agencies buy out debts of 20-30% value, so they sell them, so they are naturally charged at full value, which is according to the Law on Mandatory Relations, right, but I would say that it is not moral, someone pays something 100, and because of that another 200 or 300, it is a huge margin and on someone's debts, in fact. Those agencies, I call them vulture agencies, should be further regulated. I don't know if you know the Ministers how these agencies work? Citizens are left to the mercy of these agencies because of what's going on? The bank, when it sells its debt, sells its dues and sells tight interest and takes over the entire debt to the company agency. And then what does the agency do in a large number of cases? It sums up the tight interest and the principal and charges the tight interest on that total debt, the new debt. And we know you can't charge a tight interest on a tight interest. And now there are debtors who know what to do, who check their debt status, who know how to verify it, and then they dispute such a debt and such a debt agency always gives up such a debt and has to run the business again on real debt. But a large number of people don't know that, and they're paying tight interest rates that run both on tight interest and on the capital. We need to regulate the work of these vulture agencies, first of all it is possible to regulate it in such a way that, first of all, if the agency buys some debt from the bank then the regulator for this debt must be the CNB. You can't let someone else regulate the work of the agency that's taken over all the bank's obligations now, but it's not the CNB regulator anymore, it's someone else's regulator. It's so not good, and it's probably thousands and thousands of cases of anatocysm happening, we know it's forbidden. However, if the perpetrator does not dispute such a debt, he is charged with it. Therefore, I have proposed between the two readings of some important changes, important additions to the final proposal of the Implementing Law, unfortunately they are not accepted. In the opening statement, you said that you accepted a suggestion concerning the EU Court's ruling C407/18 and you said, as you said in the opening statement, that the court's obligation to postpone the exercise is prescribed if the consumer initiates a lawsuit against an unfair believer from an unfair contract, or the contract is unfair in the set or unfair contractual provisions, and even that it must delay that exercise within 30 days until such court proceedings are initiated. You said the prescribed obligation to postpone is, however, in the draft law that will be at the vote there is no obligation but only a possibility. There's a possibility without writing it. The court can write that, not write it. The law must prescribe an obligation to do so. Well, in that sense, I'm going to propose an amendment to prescribe such an obligation. The other thing that is very important is the fact that large legal entities are allowed to hire lawyers and that these lawyers are doing the job even before the lawsuit started and then such legal offices as I have already said are earning huge money in the simple process of starting the case. It's no complicated procedure, it can teach each and every one of us if you try a little hard, it's a job that can teach anyone who's on average educated, it's not a problem to run an executive procedure at all. And that's why I suggested that legal persons who have an annual income of more than 3 million kuna, which fall under the 18% profit tax, I think that this will increase to 7.5 million kuna a year, I suggested that such legal persons be banned from charging the costs of lawyers from the perpetrators. Why did I suggest that? For the simple reason that such legal persons must have the opportunity to hire someone in their jobs on something like that. Well, here's a little while ago, and I got a proposal to run a public notebook, and that proposal wasn't launched by a lawyer, but it started a reference to a company that wanted to collect the 2016 debt from me. I was fortunately informed enough so I knew that this performance was obsolete because it was launched in 2019, and in 2016 there was a debt. It's a one-year-old debt I simply answered to the public notary that I won't pay that debt because I'm out of date because the claim is out of date. However, the public notary initiated a court case, sent it to court, but the executive, when he saw that the statute of limitations had taken place, decided to suspend the proceedings so that I was not completed. A lot of people don't know when it's getting old. For the first time in my life, it was actually that someone tried to do me for the first time in my life that I really didn't even pay a debt. It was my oversight, but on the other hand, the oversight of that legal person who wanted to charge me now and the debt and the expense of the public notebook and the tightened interest, it was that the person had not sent me a reminder the year the debt came. If that legal person had sent me a warning, I would have paid for it, there are no problems. But now that they wanted to charge me more and the public records' expenses for my oversight, and above all because of their oversight, I didn't want to pay for it because I didn't have to pay. I also invite all the people who listen to this debate at the moment to check their debts well. First they need to check whether they are out of date, the second they need to check whether the debt status is as it says in the motion to launch the application. Because like I said, there's often a problem because someone's charging a tight interest on a tight interest rate. It's a loan, it can't be done, and a man if he doesn't know it's a problem. But to return to these legal costs, I will propose by amendment that large legal entities with incomes of more than 3 million kunas per year should not charge the costs of running an exercise if they have hired a lawyer. Let's get that lawyer's salary alone, if they're not able to run a very simple procedure by themselves. The next thing I'm going to do is suggest a non-acceptable one is a question of how to collect tight interest. I suggested two important things to change in terms of tight interest. I first suggested that we limit the tight interest to the height of the principal. So if we have some dues, the tight interest flows, flows, flows, and when it reaches the height of the principal stops flowing. And now I would have even retroactively prescribed that provision, if one had reached the capital ten years ago and if a tight interest was charged, it is very likely that already a tight interest had crossed the height of the principal. If the tight interest has exceeded the principal's height, then the part that has crossed the principal's height should be deducted from the remaining principal and not charged further tight interest. That would be allowed. The Constitution allows for an extremely justified provision in the law to be retroactive. So the whole law must not be retroactive, but individual provisions of the law must also be retroactive in order to limit it to consumers. I note that such provisions regarding tight interest on consumers have one Germany, there is one France. So when someone says, it is not so prescribed anywhere by mandatory legal regulations, it is true, but it is prescribed by specific consumer protection laws, and this Implementing Law can contain specific provisions concerning only consumers, so I will propose by amendment to limit the tightening interest at the height of the consumer's principal and that if in the past this tight interest has already gone to some extent over the head's height, then that this amount is deducted from the principal and that only the principal is charged below. I think it would be perfectly fine and I think that such a provision would help many people eventually get out of debt completely, in a year, two, three. The next provision I propose also has something to do with the tight interest and the order in which to collect the tight interest and the principal. Costs we don't touch, expenses are to go first, that's fine. However, the order of charge of the principal and the tight interest can be reversed in such a way as to charge the principal first and then squeeze the interest. And again, I would limit that provision to consumers so that someone wouldn't say, let's now change something about the Law on Mandatory Relations. We are not going to change what the Law on Mandatory Relations does, let us not favor those who might want to use the law for some dirty work but rather go to help consumers who are the most vulnerable group. So for consumers, I suggest that they turn the order to charge in a way that the principal is charged before the tight interest. I must say that such payment is not contrary to Croatian law, is not contrary to EU law, and the Croatian Bar of Law has given the green light for such a proposal and have themselves suggested that this be prescribed in the Official Law, either in the Law on Mandatory Relations. However, I would not touch the Law on Mandatory Relations, let it be prescribed by Implementing Law and only for consumer contracts. The next thing I'd suggest, I've already said it, but it concerns exactly this delay in real estate. So what's proposed as a possibility, I suggest that it be prescribed as an obligation. So if someone has an unfair loan agreement or an unfair contractual provision in that loan or in another consumer nature contract, and it is a consumer, if he has initiated a court procedure to determine dishonesty and to obtain a restitution because of this dishonesty, the court would necessarily have to postpone the exercise of property until the judicial dispute has been brought to an end. We have a collective Franak case where banks have been found to have negotiated an unfair change in interest rate and an unfair currency clause of CHF and this refers to 125,000 loans. If the injured party in such a loan contract has initiated a court case against the bank, it can be seen by the time the contract is agreed and by the bank that it is such a credit, the court should not have a dilemma, it should delay such action until the judicial verdict is in force and this is based on EU law, it is based on the EU Court of Justice of the EU C407/18. I must finally say club HSU-SNAGA-Independent MPs and the New Politics will not support the final proposal of the Executive Law, and I will see in line with the adoption of my amendments whether I will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178181	Thank you, too. Mrs. Anka Dark Tarritash will speak for the GLASs Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178182	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Again, we can name names, so not much interest in the second reading of the executive law, although there is a lot of great media space, it has won in the media. I'm going to be a little bit in this law with one other maybe aspect, from one technical point of view, that's my profession and I'm looking at the laws that way and I'm looking at how it's possible to implement them. It's already here, the clubs that discussed before me pointed to the fact of the problem we have today, especially the problem of tight interest and the problems of agencies that have a new professional job. So allow me before I refer to this law, otherwise we at the GLAS Club won't support this law, so I don't forget to say, tell a story in real life. A good friend of mine who has a registered firm that has been designing for many years, came back from vacation year, and in the 9th month came to raise one recommended, one recommended in writing, and she as a conscientious person went and picked up. He's got his own company where no one's ever worked except her. And in getting it, she gets from one agency to choose to suspend some of the employees' wages, the name and last name that means nothing to her, the employee who's never worked with her, the person she's never met or met in her life, and she's in one big trouble and she doesn't want to miss it because something else doesn't happen to her. She's trying to get to that agency, first she's sending some email, and it's answering that that email address that was in the header was unknown. Behind that, he's trying to get somebody on the phone, just to say someone got confused and sent it wrong, so it's about a man who never, never even knows him, doesn't even live, I don't know where he lives. Meanwhile, the two of us meet, and she tells me, I say, look, I guess it's some kind of confusion, that someone sent something wrong, says yes, but I don't think I'm in any kind of trouble. After that, she goes one day to the address listed, at that address no one has ever heard of the agency being there. And I ended it when this law came and when I saw it was gonna be I called her and I asked if you had your hard way finished, she said I didn't, I couldn't get to that agency at all and I didn't make it at all, and I don't have any commitment that man never worked with me, I don't have any pay when I never paid that man. But it's life. So, it's something that people, so she was responsible and conscious and tried to track her down, and by finding her lost, it would be convenient to see how much of the Captain she lost, but that's some real life for you. And now that we've seen this executive law, let's see, the first law was passed on June 28, '96. A year. So, during that period, several times, it tried to build a new law of law. It's about a sensitive situation. Why did someone even get into a situation that was complete? Why did anyone ever get into a debt situation? You have different human fates and you can't put them in the same denominator because there are different, different stories. And now every time I read any law I try to see what the law's intensity was, what models are designed to solve it and how much improvement you have in relation to the existing situation. Because it's obvious that with the current situation, everyone is unhappy. Those who are believers are dissatisfied, those who are debtors are dissatisfied, those who are in the process and let's see what happened to be a pleasure can never be satisfied, but that this amount of dissatisfaction is reduced. I often say, no law is carved into stone, every law should have the possibility of change. When through law enforcement you see that there are some problems, detect these problems, put them on paper, go solve them. When you read a little bit about this law, she reads the following. That, therefore, it was intended to achieve horizontal harmonisation in relation to other regulations. Whether it was done or not, it's hard for me to judge, I assume that all those who participated in this work and thought about it took care of it. The aim was to achieve the efficiency of the executive process, to achieve the dignity of the perpetrators, to achieve lower costs of the process. And now let's discuss it a little bit and see if it's really done, if we're going the right way, because if there's a good way, there's already something we can do. The subject of efficiency of the executive procedure, we come to the fact that different letters have come to all of us, different human proposals have come to pass. What kind of rang me is that everyone's talking about the fact that the courts aren't ready to do that job. In other words, this means that the Ministry of Implementation of this Law should have made some advances, whether it's done very quickly, but if everyone's saying the courts aren't ready, they'll be buried, and we all have somehow in the memory of the fact that when we talk about the courts the first thought when we talk about the courts is these long procedures. Procedures that are long, procedures that are complicated, in the procedures in which we somehow win, we come to a final act that takes a long time. The question I asked, or rather the replica that was the minister, was let's see how this process goes. I usually do something, that's why I said in the introduction that I would talk a little bit about technical professions, even when I'm doing any law or debate or anything, then I kind of draw it in the house. So, I'm the technical profession, and I'm thinking through the pictures and I'm drawing into the homes and then I kind of draw myself in those homes what is what is the procedure and I was interested in asking the question of the minister, what are the homes, how long the process in that house is going on, today when anyone evaluates, any work, any, whenever, when the Republic of Croatia is placed on the list, then it's always being classified by these processes, how long the processes are going on, really one exception and one exit from all of this when it was that drop on the Doing Business scale and when that fall was connected to the building permits, so it was only processes for how long it takes, and when you introduce a new process, it automatically reads that you are in that you are in that sense that the minister answered me less effectively, so that he hasn't answered me how many days for the most normal procedure in which you don't have to know, but he said we't. An e-process that we all swear is ideal. I recently watched a report that came from the EU level on this, and I was interested in how many people at this point in their working life, so now they're changing jobs, so it turns out they're changing about 10 jobs as early as 20 years ago. It was not so, and then in that report I came to the conclusion that 25% of the EU's working population is informationally illiterate, I would be interested in how much is it in the Republic of Croatia? It would be good to know how many in Croatia informationally illiterate people because when you introduce a new procedure he will have to take someone to advise him about it all together at all, and you must know that it is so, so you have answered me and it is okay for me, that the motion goes to the court, so the proposal that goes immediately in that e-proceeds, then goes to the public notary in an alphabetical order the first one that is in order, and then he gives it 15 days, gives it to the debtor to say so or to whom it is being conducted that he argues whether he is in full or in part, so when he shows then the motion of the court's objection, then the court does it, so that's the simples when no one has anything against, and everyone agrees. It would be interesting to see really how long it takes, it would be interesting to see how many people in the Republic of Croatia, so the working population, or those who are informationally illiterate, and that I tie up with this story about my friend who's still been trying to get to the agency that sent her a recommended letter that she has to take some of the pay from someone who's never worked with her, which eventually ends up having to do it on foot, so I'm afraid that in this great desire to digitize, and we all work on it and we have to work, the question is how it's going to be here. The dignity of the perpetrators, I must say that there has been a shift, especially a shift in the part where they are entitled to a home, the right to emigration is only in a certain period, that certain incomes have been released from it and there has been one shift in all together, and then we come to a lower cost of the process. So when you do this kind of law, when you want to make a certain step, you just have to do some simulations. It would be good if we had seen and heard these simulations on some committees, so your simulation is about the process I'm talking about, but your simulations are about some examples, so that it can be compared to what the costs are today, and what the costs of the procedure will be in line with the provisions of this law because these are some comparisons that we can have. There's one saying that the way to hell in the main cases is filled with good intentions, I'm always somehow trying to think positively and try to think for the purpose or purpose of this. We've had since '96. The different executive laws agree, we had this one attempt that never came into effect, we're trying, we see that this problem is trying to solve this problem, and the answer that, if those problems that we recognize today, we know that with this law, I hardly have any magic wand, so that with the magic wand you solved to the end, but whether some pre-work and created conditions have been made to solve it. The theme is tight interest, there is still no answer or obvious issue with tight interest goes on, but what everyone points out and what might be in the final word well that the minister is once again manifested, this is the process which is because if the process takes long time then, of course, the issue of tight interest related to the process, the procedure must be quick, it must be effective and must be available to all. If he is not available to everyone, and then there is always a problem that, in the desire that you will really put everything into place by e-citizens, e-process and everything else, that for those 25% of people, I assume that in the Republic situation can only be worse than at EU level, you will introduce someone else where someone will have to, of course, no one is doing anything beautiful, someone has to lead him through this process at all. So by this executive law, I do, an absolute man must be correct and correct in saying, you tried to make a step. It seems to us at the GLAS Club that in a way that you have both courts and public notebooks still in the process that this has not been resolved until the end, there are some good practices of some countries, it's never good to rewrite it all to the end, once it's me, someone told me something and told me that the Swedishs can do it, and we can't because they're Swedish, and we're not, so they can't, and they're not, that we're doing it who would then be Swedish because they're different, they have a different tradition, you can't expect someone who's solved something for 300 years to solve for 30 years. So it seems to us that the examples we have from the neighbouring country, and I mean Slovenia, that these are quite good examples and that one way to adapt these examples to our legislation and somehow put it in frames that suit us would be much better. I'm so afraid it's going to be a great effort again, and we'll be very soon aware that what was wanted has not been achieved and that then we'll be halfway back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178183	It is now up to Mrs. Maria Jelkovac to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178184	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Here, I'm going to try to recapture everything on this final draft of the executive law. First of all, I would like to remind you that in the Croatian state, the first Implementing Law was passed in '96. the year, after 2010, was adopted together with the Law on Public Executors, and these two laws should have been the basis of a new executive system in which public perpetrators were to play a fundamental role. In most cases, the 2010 executive law did not come into force and never came into force, primarily with regard to public perpetrators. The third Implementing Act was adopted in 2012 and was governed by the procedure for the forced pursuit of the search and procedure of voluntary judicial and public records of the search and, together with the Implementing Act on Monetary Funds, constitutes the legal framework for the implementation of the extrajudicial exercise carried out by FINA to the greatest extent possible. In view of the difficulties in applying the existing law and its alignment with other laws, and in order to simplify the effectiveness of the implementation of the whole executive procedure, and with the protection of the dignity of the perpetrators, this new proposal for the Executive Act is proposed. Already the latest amendments to the Implementing Law improve the status of debtors, thus showing that the government is truly socially sensitive and that it wants to resolve as much as possible the issue of blocked and executed which has reached a certain worrying level in Croatian society. These amendments make four significant improvements to the debt status and the following, the only real estate is excluded from the performance, there is no implementation of the property for a debt where the principal is less than 20,000 kuna, and the court is given tools that although the principal is greater than 20,000 kuna by its decision do not allow the exercise if the assessment that this would be unfair. Then, if in the process of selling real estate and a person has no place to be, the state guarantees a person the possibility of paying a rent for 18 months maximum of 2,500 kuna so that no one is left unsettled on the road. Then increases the inexhaustible part of the salary or pension to three quarters of that income, but no more than two thirds of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, which was slightly less than 4,000 kuna. The exemption from that rule was the sole enforcement of the forced payment of the child support amount when one quarter of the net salary of the perpetrators was excluded from the application. As regards this proposal, it is important to point out that all those involved in the executive procedure and, of course, the profession itself were engaged in the task force for the draft law. This proposal for an Executive Act shall initiate the enforcement procedure on the basis of a credible document by submitting the proposal to the competent court. Therefore, the court will be a general and regular competent authority, but due to the discharging of courts, so as not to put them back in a situation where they have great backlogs and to be overbooked with cases, public notebooks as court commissioners are detained. The court would automatically assign the file, assign the file to a public notary in alphabetical order. When a request or an orderly proposal is received, the public notaries shall invite the performer, within 15 days, to fulfil his obligation to the authorising officer or to be manifest within that period of time to contest the demand or part of the demand. It actually strengthens the protection of the perpetrators. The public notary will, if the perpetrator does not challenge the proposal for enforcement, draw up a draft decision and submit the same court by electronic means. The decision to carry out the decision shall also contain a notice concerning the receipt and compensation which is exempt from the application or to which it is limited. The perpetrator has the right to appeal for a solution to the execution. The Court shall, further in the procedure, put in place a confirmation of the power to exercise and deliver a solution to the FINA for implementation. For the sake of a more efficient procedure, electronic communication is introduced, as well as forms which should, in any case, lead to a reduction in the costs of the process. The delivery provisions have also been improved since, after other unsuccessful delivery, they are carried out through the Advertising Panel to send the debtor notices to the mailbox and the personal mailbox of e-Citizens. Then it remains in force, a safeguard provision that protects the only real estate, i.e. This ban is prohibited in the winter months from 1 November to 1 April, which continues to show that we are socially sensitive to the extent possible. The law also increases the number of incomes that are excluded from the performance, so they are primarily Christmases, regressions, jubilee rewards, union loans, fees for official travel and the like. Employers and HZMOs shall be released from the business of carrying out the work on salary and pension. FINA shall carry out the exercise under the supervision of the court. The law increases the amount of the principal demand for whose settlement does not allow the real estate to be carried out at an amount of HRK 40,000. The process of selling real estate through public commissioners is also regulated, and the sale of real estate is facilitated. In any case, a major step has been made in reducing costs. Provisions on the determination of the foreseeable costs of the procedure shall be deleted, the certificate of enforcement shall be issued by automation, so that there is no longer any cost of issuing that certificate. The law also fixes the costs of the body in the process, and so does the courts and public notaries and FINA, and for the determination and implementation of the decision on the cash performance, this amount will be one for those executions up to 5.00 kn and one for all other purposes greater than that amount. Furthermore, in order to simplify the efficiency of the executive procedure, electronic communication is introduced, complaint reasons are arranged and decisions against which it is possible to declare an audit are defined, electronic forms are introduced to make the procedure more accessible to all, more clearly and to reduce the costs for themselves, for only assembling these submissions. With the proposed solution, all decisions of the court will be taken in a contradictory procedure, which has been an objection to the EU court so far, thus making all decisions taken in the Republic of Croatia possible to be implemented in EU member states. Finally, it should be said that this law is a continuation of the government's measures aimed at addressing the problems of blocked citizens through a package of measures through the Law on the discharge of debts to natural persons, the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the budget and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Bank Act adopted in 2018. It is also important to point out that the aim of the exercise is to ensure the fulfillment of the demand and that it is in fact a rule of law, it must not be allowed to favour either the position of debtors or the position of creditors. At the HDZ Club, we believe that this proposal of the Executive Law successfully balances this position between debtors and creditors and that they were made moves and effects that we wanted to make in relation to the existing state of law, according to a cheaper procedure, according to a faster, more transparent and more efficient procedure. To all those who prejudge this bill as one that is not good and who will not get the results that I have just stated, I suggest that we should first let the law live, and after a time, a certain time of its implementation, evaluate its effects, and we should not be unfaithful to Tom in advance. I hereby state that the HDZ Club will support this Final Proposal for the Executive Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178185	It is now Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Mr. Željko Glasnović and Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic, he is not, he is losing his right, Mrs. is Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj, in front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178186	The Honored Vice-President HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with co-workers, would also refer to the Executive Act and state a few objections, would first refer to the General Court in the case being conducted on the basis of a credible document submitted by the Court of Justice of the EU requesting the initiation of a preliminary procedure in view of the preliminary question as to whether the provision of a domestic executive law giving public notaries the power to make decisions on enforcement and lead to enforcement proceedings in accordance with EU law, in the light of the judgment of the EU Court and whether or not the interpretation can be applied in these judgments of the Court of Justice in particular. In those questions, the EU Court of Justice ruled on 11 April 2019, which found that the EU court was not in charge of answering the questions raised by the Municipal Court in New Zagreb because the situation was described in an important way. the exercise on the basis of a credible document between domestic legal and natural persons does not contain a single link to EU law. So in other words, the EU court confirms that it is not competent to decide on matters of national law such as enforcement on the basis of a credible document carried out by public notebooks, where the judgments of the court do not concern matters of national law. It should also be stressed that for the needs of several hundred cases of European executive titles annually when the exercise is to be carried out in another EU country, there is already a solution in domestic law in such a way that each believer is able to comply with the provisions of the Law on a judicial procedure relating to the issue of a payment order, a judicial decision can be made in other EU countries, when it means provisions of the laws in which the payment order is detailed. As regards the return of enforcement on the basis of a credible document in the jurisdiction of the courts, there is a concern that it will block the work of the courts because we believe that the courts are neither logistic nor technologically prepared, nor humane for such a reform with the concept that the concept, the concept of carrying out on the basis of credible documents, return to jurisdiction and the work of the courts as we had before 2000, will effectively block the work of the courts on all other existing active cases which are already too much in the courts. The significant involvement of public notebooks is also a poor solution and a step backwards for business security, stable and balanced reduction of goods in the economy, as well as a primary threat and already significantly overloaded courts. Therefore, the bill offers neither faster, nor simpler, nor a cheaper system of enforcement procedures on the basis of a credible document, but will be the result of a multiple extension of the time needed to come up with a valid solution to the performance. As an example, we can take the above 30 days, and we believe that this will be at least 6 months in the future. It will also be a overload of courts and a more complicated procedure. As far as the solution is concerned, it often means digitization. We are also considering this and we are going to submit an amendment because there is no knowledge of whether any activities are started on the design of a digital platform on which such a system of performance could work, and if you start, it is necessary to work on such a system for years and to adapt it to the requirements and needs of the legal model and to test its functionality, which, for example, shows very simple activities in commercial courts, shows problems which, as I have announced, are too quick and reckless to implement, and on the other hand, even citizens are not sufficiently digitally educated in order for such a concept to be able to live on and on already, as I have announced on this will be submitted for the amendment. As far as the move towards a solution is concerned, the proposal for an executive proposal to this solution is a new executive procedure will have more steps than before and will become longer and slower. The steps in the implementation on the basis of a credible document represent a particular hybrid of litigation procedures and uncontested enforcement procedures. Such a hybrid does not exist in practice, nor is it sufficiently thought out, nor is it tested on some volume of the case or minor meaning of the procedure, so it will create multi-judicial and party activities with its own structure. There we can only take one example where the believer will need more or much longer to even try to collect his claim, and on the other hand, the time course in the case means much more tighter interest which ultimately will have to be paid by the debtor. For the end, I would only say that the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club will support the law in principle with an amendment that I have already announced will be submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178187	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Peja Grbin's turn to speak for the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have no other way of saying what I intend to say, so I'm going to have to say it in a simpler way, which is that this law is bad. That can't be said differently because it's simply a fact. I'm not going to be long, first and foremost, and I've already talked about it. The process in which the number of participants increases cannot be faster, cannot be more efficient and cannot be cheaper than the procedure in which we have fewer participants. The process in which the number of operations is increased cannot be faster, cannot be more efficient and cannot be cheaper than the process which has a smaller number of actions. It's elemental logic. If you've had one shop so far, and now you're going to have two that's more work, if you've had one shop so far, and now you're going to have two that's more time. You don't have to graduate from law school to understand this. In this procedure proposed instead of going to the public notary so far, you submit a proposal to the party, if there is an objection to a solution, the case shall be referred to the court, if no objection is given to the final clause and the procedure shall go further into forced payment, shall be replaced by the procedure where you are going to the court, the court shall communicate with the notary, the notary shall send the notice to the site for the first time, if the party does not respond the notary sends the latter a second time, if the party does not react there to the court that is ultimately implementing it, the procedure to be complicated and extended. The more the problem remains, the more I point out to you, we don't have deadlines for courts. We have notary deadlines, we don't have court deadlines, so we don't know how long it's gonna take. This isn't well-respected colleagues and colleagues. Now that we look at all this in my opinion, when you entered into the adoption of this law, you had a few options. First, you could have decided to return the execution to the courts. You didn't do it for a very simple reason, you know, to choke the courts that way. That's a fact. If we had all the work we have now returned to the courts, the 700 to 800,000 cases we have each year would be inconclusive for the courts. We'd have asphyxiation from which everyone else would suffer. That's a fact. You could have decided to keep the executive proceedings only with the public notebooks, without mixing the courts. Of course, you couldn't decide either because the political pressure is too high to leave public notebooks alone, plus the fact that the European Court of Justice has made it clear that the notebooks are not in the Brussels regulation and that those decisions taken by public notebooks cannot be implemented before the courts of EU Member States and we had to find a way to solve this, so it couldn't be done in the notebooks either. I was expecting to, and I'm not the only one who's going to say, we expected you to decide then to apply the entire electronic system of performance. One information I received is that in neighbouring Slovenia, I think 6 judges cover their entire e-Execution system. Slovenia is twice as small as Croatia, Slovenia has less liquidity problems, so it is to assume that we have taken over their model so that 20 to 30 people can do it in Croatia. And look what we get, we get a system that allows everyone without an intermediary, and I come from a legal profession and I emphasize without an intermediary, without my colleagues, can run a procedure, without a notebook by electronic means, through a protected system, but even more importantly than what the system is protected, through a fully controlled system where all of us at any moment have full access to information as to how many procedures are being conducted, in which phase, in which way they are being solved. In such a system where control is very simple in just a few clicks of the computer, malversions are avoided. We'd get a procedure that's cheaper, we'd get a procedure that's faster, we'd get a procedure that's more effective and we'd get a procedure that avoids malfeasance, but we didn't decide. And that's why we in the SDP can't support this law. But that's not the only problem. In our first reading, we pointed out the problem of order of collection. Mr. Minister, you said you'd see what you could do about it, and then we open up the final bill and in it one easy answer, the order of payment is not a question that should be arranged by Implementing Law. I can agree with that, but as you are the minister in charge of the executive law, so are the minister in charge of the Mandatory Relations Act. As you proposed this law so you could propose amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, but you did not do so. And the fact that you didn't do it shows that it's simply not your priority, not your plan, not yours. So, honestly, go outside and say, we don't want to change the order of payments, we want to continue to charge the costs and interest first, and then the principal. And the fact that for some people such a order of payments means that debt will never be paid back, even though it will be paid all its life, to no one. However, the law has one problem, and the problem appeared in Croatia several months ago. But it's not really a problem, it's progress. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, I have to use the name of a bank to make it perfectly clear what it is, and that's Revolut. The revolution is a bank registered in one EU Member State, well there may not be a long-term state yet, but it will still be able to continue operating, which has its own IBAN through which we can receive pay. How will you charge someone's income through a Revolut that is not within the reach of the FINA if you delete from the law a provision on payment and pension? Is it clear to you that if this stays the way you suggested how maliciously you would go on that platform just to avoid receiving because we don't send employers any more work? Dear colleagues and colleagues, this bill is bad, this bill will not solve the problems Croatia has to deal with. The changes you're talking about, which should be in favor of the perpetrators, are only cosmetic because no one can tell me that the debtor is more difficult when he gets kicked out of his apartment on 15.3. than it is in 15.7. when temperatures in my area reach 37, 38 or more degrees Celsius. What makes 15.3. less human to disabling someone from the estate of 15.7., would you please explain it to me? Neither date is human. I just don't know, that hypocrisis that stems from this proposal is not worthy of you respected colleagues and colleagues. All in all, as I've already said, I have a feeling that there was a will here to change something, but not knowledge. And the result is that because of him, we're all going to have problems, and if God doesn't let him live in practice, probably over a year, we're going to stand here again and talk about how we're going to change this law. Once again, the SDP counseling club can't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178189	Now it's Mr. Stephen Curaj who will speak for the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178190	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. It's short by recapitulating what we're actually trying to achieve here. We are returning the court-supervised executive procedure, or we are introducing some form of assistance to the court by public notebooks. But what is most important is that the process is initiated and guided by the use of electronic communication means of the prescribed forms, which should lead to simplification of the procedure, thereby creating a prerequisite for reducing the same costs. And that's something that I think everyone here should and may welcome, that any effort that goes towards reducing costs are with justified reasons are... It also increases the level of security of the delivery of letters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the level of protection of officials is increased by introducing a pre-process, i.e. prior to the adoption of a decision on the implementation on the basis of a credible document, the debtor is previously reminded. So it's extremely important because we had a lot of situations where people didn't even know there was a certain contractual relationship because they were day parking tickets or some participations where they weren't aware of their friend and then, they were welcomed by the proposal and the solution to the performance they might have ignored, they didn't raise or anything else and they sat down to do something they didn't even know about. However, already with that proposal, some generated costs are already being reduced to the least possible. And I welcome that, too. I also welcome all cost cuts for those who are conscious, forgot, willing to pay, and immediately in the beginning say okay, I will settle my expenses and it is also absolutely justified to me. However, we have another situation, and I am now opening it up not to repeat everything that has been said and to strengthen the protection of the perpetrators and to reduce costs, dignity over non-money, real estate only of what has already been said, as it has been brought. We come to the third solution in which the perpetrator contests and proceeds to trial. Its costs are the same as those of the procedure as the one which admitted that he had a debt, that he would pay it, that he might not have been able to, etc. And even the ones who confessed to it and don't have the money to admit it and say all right, I just don't have the money right now, okay, you can sit on my accounts. But there's also a third group that may even have money, but it's deliberately going to delay the procedure, and we need to know about the legal tightening interest is something above 6%, 6.3 and so it can generate in a series of certain creditors the debts of 10, at 3, 4 thousand kuna, 40, 50 and thus actually have one hidden funding on interest that he couldn't get some cash credit or especially when we're talking about legal persons. How do you detimize it, and what can it do? Today we have a charge and here you can correct me from 95% of the demand, or the bills issued, 5% goes to the top, of those 5% I think even through the executive process, you charge three more than half. When it falls now and probably will, I'm saying that in some way we have to jump there, what's going to happen? Those creditors will simply transfer the burden to whom? So to the other citizens who pay, they will collect the price of the service, they will calculate it because they will realize that, let's say 10%, they are going into the process, they are waiting for two, one, two years, three, the court procedure is being conducted because it is now more opportunistic to initiate a court procedure and pay, especially for smaller amounts, because there are costs at least for tariffs, less amounts, more fixed, I think that as much as 500 kuna or something, so they are more, in the case of counter-insults, so to dispute, so to depose me, until the previous question is resolved, especially if we are talking about some financial claims etc., etc. So a lawsuit for something, a lawsuit for another, a lawsuit for this and a stretch of the whole process. And what happens, then these same creditors collect their services. And all of us who regularly pay our obligations actually pay and that, that's one problem that could happen if it did, and how could it happen? Because, and forgive me if I don't have a lot of confidence in our courts, it's just because statistics say so and it's such an impression that they're not the poorest. Indeed, some courts will be able to handle this, but I am very interested in this municipal court in Zagreb with hundreds of thousands of cases when it comes to how it will solve it both in what way and in what time and what it will come. So we can't go in favor of certain groups of people who may have been inexcusable and paying, it's absolutely clear to everyone that a debt of 200, 300 kuna can't pay 1100 kuna of expenses and such things, that it doesn't make sense. But we must not question the very discipline of charging, that is, paying that someone realizes that they can play nice with other people's money and finance and at the end when the creditors see it, simply for that percentage of the default or the extension of the payment deadline they will not transfer but... They'll transfer it to all of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what worries me. What I also care about is the system itself and making apps that will work because there are a lot of things that will be found. Accordingly, I would like us to leave ourselves another possibility that only the competent ministry and, in order to do so, I will submit to some amendment that up to 30, 60 days before this 1.7 next year may even postpone it. Because I say once again to the courts when the Swiss case comes, and I don't know how many tens and hundreds of thousands of cases, so when possible consumer bankruptcy starts, how much and how it will be handled. What I have asked is also an article if I am not mistaken 49 as regards the implementation of an application or a deadline for issuing a certificate... It says that without delay, the court will issue no matter what, it shouldn't, he'll betray. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What if he doesn't? It's an instructional deadline, nothing to anyone. The court didn't give up, so it wouldn't be the first time the court has done anything. There may need to be more attention, and I will also mention some amendment to that. As for the distribution and selection of the notary who will be assistants of the court in the process, it now goes in alphabetical order by jurisdiction from the beginning to the end of A-Z or you G. What if some notary does not want, has never worked, has never been equipped in information, there are no people and that at all enters these procedures simply determined... Something else. We have to give him a choice whether he wants to or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to what's written in the law here, they'll all get, whether or not they want to. Although that level makes more sense to me than to give in to some competition because someone invested in the system, in equipment, in people, but given that the court is setting it up now, then we can't go and run some public procurement or I don't know what because then it wouldn't lead us anywhere but at least it gives him the possibility that those who say it consciously see I don't want to be at that level, that I can plead or log out of court and say I don't want to participate in the division of the subject-matter. Just as their choice to legally state it because it's not legally envisaged here, it just says it's going to be shared, so we're going to make them do something, whether they want it or not. Okay, they're doing that public legal service or the general public, they can't refuse some things like when you come to do some things, they can't, but I don't see any reason why they're pushing back into the protection of all parties in the process because some of them are always and some of them aren't and there's going to be a problem in the functioning itself. It is also an Article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 40th paragraph of paragraph 7 of the MMF does not, in my opinion, require those legal entities that are blocked. If the registration of legal entities is blocked, there's no need to ask for new costs, I'll commit to money first, if it isn't. For the citizens he would leave it, he would not put it there but eventually with legal entities not, I say, again, so that he would not be covered by the protection of citizens because it applies to legal entities, it would be used by state firms that would be secretly funded, debtd, and do everything, do as our Croatian reality actually tells us. Furthermore, as far as communication is concerned, that's what I put in the replica, I think that there should be an extremely good regulation on how to regulate certain changes during the procedure. In the event of a settlement, in the event of partial debt settlement, how will the party in the procedure as a performer and how, by which means, report and by which credible correction guarantee that something has been paid? For the believer will not have insight, or anyone of the believers will. So far, before obtaining an executive solution, we have always had the opportunity to actually see if someone in the meantime paid something not to double-exploit it for something he paid for and we know that there are people who are most irritated. And here, it can happen to us. Yeah, he's got a right to come back, you can't think. Yeah, he paid for something, he called somewhere, he didn't call, and now we have to ask him to still do legal work as an executive to someone else he's reporting to in the system, I don't know. So that's one part of the di can happen to me that really someone in that entire pay is partially, what amount is being completed, who's changing it, how does it work when we have a system that's automated, whether a public notary or someone has to hire someone to run it and who's going to pay that cost. Well, I don't think the archduke and the believer will. I'm sure he won't hire someone to lead what he has to pay for, let him go twice and say to the court. I filed, you, if you paid, prove it to the court. Now they're very careful and they're taking care of it and it can really happen to us that something double goes, so that communication is actually how it's going to work. I also mentioned the unequal burden of courts, which is an impact on times that will need to be resolved by disputes, which will likely be more and more the procedure itself, which should as well be automated in order not to actually lead to counter-effects, even greater costs and blockades of citizens. So in principle, it's good that we go into this process to lower the costs, you can't have the expense of those who pay for it so that by chance the executive or the creditors don't transfer it to other citizens who pay because you're careful, if it's 95% of the bill right now and then another 3% through the procedure, so it falls to 85, 80, so how long do you think it'll be until the prices start to rise? It needs to be ensured that it doesn't happen. That can't be the point of this law. We mustn't, based on a few of us to please them, damage the vast majority. Because probably these executives will agree with their assistants, give them some water, take care of it, and transfer that level to others and have it again, surely they won't do anything to themselves in, in the far line or not, that's not their job, but they're not too eager to do something like that if they could, I mean. So I'm going to try some things personally with an amendment that would deal with this, but most importantly, to install a part of the transitional provisions that must work and that the competent ministry is responsible and that it can, if necessary and extend the application just to do so properly. From these few examples, because there must be no burden on the citizens or on those who pay, and especially on the burden of the parties in the process, and thus on the executives and the perpetrators, that we understand each other. We can't fall under collective hysteria that all those looking for their money are bad guys, they're not. However, before the one who doesn't pay something is the bad guy, now, as it happens, about that later. Here's a thank you, on behalf of the HNS Club we will accept in principle, but I hope the amendments will be adopted, too, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178191	Thank you. Now we're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178192	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here's what I said on behalf of the club, the Honorable Minister, I think it's here that the rest of the public notebooks, I'm sorry it's not the minister, here's the public notebooks... Associates, public notebooks remain here, in fact we have no change except that it is good that it went to the courts, but the question is why the public notebooks, which is why FINA, which is why the Agency for the collection of claims. the debtors of the debts that have been imposed, who are repressive, pressures varying from one citizen to another, which is why you, these agencies, are buying out debts and thus creating enormous pressure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I again ask the question of who has strengthened and how has the Agency for the collection of claims and who has given them that they can use the data of our citizens, so that they can put pressure on them, that they can call their family members, their neighbours, and thus bring people into one position that is not intended by the Constitution or by law. If we're talking, we're calling for data protection on anyone then that's why we're leaving our people, which is why we have 300,000 of these blocked. Here it is mentioned in the debate why not the debtors who have been executed, who are simply, have a noose around their necks, which are blocked i.e. who are blocked, have a noose around their necks, why can't their problem be solved through the work for the general good, it's not possible, it's long, it's understandable, it's long, and how can those who have robbed the country goulets and it's one of the two so far goulets of corn for 10 million kuna, a couple of months of goubles if they've peeled them, probably not even peeled them, but it's a picture of them that they've squandered the potatoes, they've handed them over to INA in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, these other hands, these bodies, these bodies, the calf, the body they handed over to the Prime Minister of Plenkovic, that today we have the Prime Minister, our Prime Minister, our Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister of the Orban said that he was with Orban and the Prime Minister of Slavicovina, was the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of He swallows the dumpling, he shuts up, he can throw himself around here, he knows how to attack the parliamentary MPs, when he's got the coming Defense shakes like a rod, when he's got the Secrets shaking to the rod, when he's got the Wolf shaking to the brush, shaking to the rail, there's no power to protect our finished, there's no protection for our companies that have been robbed, absolutely nothing, all of what they've robbed of the INA absolutely doesn't respond to, and our accomplished, they say we can't work for the general good that's blocked. They'll be blocked for life. And Orban is literally mocking our country. with the prime minister, so he's not ashamed not to answer Orban when he's told him that the RH is a ruin, he can tell him and he can be when he says it. Here's what my colleague Bačić said, what would he say to Orban if he were Prime Minister, if he had been in the position of Plenkovic and said Orban that the Republic of Croatia was a ruins, and Prime Minister Plenkovic of the First Minister was silent, if one of the parliamentary representatives had told him what to say here, it would be an insult, it would be an insult, I, Junker, Tusk, Merkel, Orban, we are solving it bilaterally,... , whatever, what he, what he solves, so counterpart Bacic does not make sense, the Prime Minister of Hungary tells the prime minister in the face of the Republic of Croatia is a wreck and he shuts it down, while at the same time he took our INA over those same ones as Andrej Plenkovic who was then in the system and you are not responsible for anything but someone has swallowed it maybe the potatoes are not for that case, for some Cobankovic, for some other case, so this is amazing, this is amazing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Republic of silos are gone full of grains, stock reserves, no one has responded, and 300,000 completed they can't work for the general good, we can't protect the meaning of our blocked, we can't declare IGP, we can't protect our fishermen, we won't protect our farmers because in Hungary Orban's Croats can't buy agricultural land, and since 2020, he'll be able to buy a whole of Slavonia if he wants you to do it with a immigration policy like this law, and what have we done in fact today? That we have a prime minister standing in front of Orban, the Hungarian prime minister who insults the Republic of Croatia, who insults us for being a ruin, so it's not weird of Orban, and the prime minister is silent. Here's the minister to make you behave in such a situation, how our blocked feel, how the farmers who had to move out, go to Ireland, how the fishermen who didn't let this government declare your IGP, how they felt the people who couldn't get rid of it, who didn't have that library, how the library department for this di was not solved, the development of the grantine, the chaos, cannot be invested, so that you would feel when a prime minister told the Croatian prime minister i.e. Orban Prime Minister of Hungary, you are the ruins of the Republic of Croatia, so it really comes to us to drink up the Bane, once I've released, the Republic of Croatia calls you, so does anyone in this country have the courage to slap a fist on the table, but it's important that we have a European Commissioner in the EU and for demography and, and this, and this democracy, and democracy, that we have a president, that we have the secretary of the European Council, the Council of Europe, that we have these persons, it's important that we have come up with all that we have come up with and absolutely no one cares about the citizens, and this proves by this law that cosmetic changes will absolutely do nothing in the continuation of the emigration of our citizens because we have not protected this law nor blocked, nor implemented it. So we don't respect the law that this assembly passed unanimously, unanimously with 130 and some votes of the law on the integrity of credit agreements with international features concluded in the Republic of Croatia with unauthorized creditors or RBA cooperatives. Still these people who are one of these unauthorized believers that the CNB has guessed, still being carried out, will forever be debtors. And when they take away their property, they're left with the principals, so he's whole, said only islands as whole. on Rab. Our judges are writing objections to this law, no one dares, Ministers of Justice, that you have taken measures that this law which is unanimous, unanimity not 2/3 of the majority but unanimously in this assembly and opposition and most, that you are not able to fight for this law. So what kind of behavior is that? Agricultural land we can't buy, and ours will buy, of course, because ours will have to move, our farmers don't invest in agriculture, and now we have empty Croatia because of all these laws. 300,000 blocked and they can't at least solve for the general good, working for the general good to get out to give them a second chance, but these INUs, now that's no problem, that's all right and really Prime Minister Plenovic's statement, i.e. silence he is a sin of silence that is a sin of obedience, he has it is a sin which is not written, but sin is called obedience, which the Croatian society after the Homeland War brought to these lowest branches, listening. He obediently stood next to Orban, as the dog near Orban stopped when he said that Croatia was a ruin, because he took over the INU by your colleagues who kept quiet, clapped to Sanader, Kosorica, Karamark, Plenkovic, all of you clapping, and Andrej Plenkovic did not say a word on Orbanovo Croatia is a ruin. What kind of message is that? It is the equality of the Croatian people in the EU. It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178193	Mr. Grmoya, you asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178194	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bulj, I just saw that statement by Hungarian Prime Minister Orban, I couldn't see it in the media. So, in front of the Croatian prime minister in our Osijek, he says that they are successful and if their property is top-of-the-line, he means the country of Hungary, and the neighbor has a ruin to ruin the value of their property. It is completely inappropriate to talk about countries as real estate, I don't know if Orban plans to sell Hungary, but in the way he fights for Hungarian national interests I doubt it. But it is also, I agree with you completely inappropriately, although part of it means it may be right because of the situation in which Croatia is located is not up to it to say so in front of the Croatian prime minister. That statement was to be reacted, but unfortunately so-called. patriots, sovereigns and others remain silent when it comes to Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178195	And he'll answer Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178196	Imagine the situation that Andrej Plenkovic told Orban. Orban protects his national interests and probably he sees them in Slavonia fields when it is now 2020 where our and the blocked and completed farmers where they moved and remained empty fields, where he will buy them as a property until Croatian citizens in Hungary can buy agricultural land. Whether it is an equal EU to Andrej Plenkovic to a man who is simply everything you can tell only the EU cannot be criticised. You Croatian people, you can block, you can humiliate fishermen, you can humiliate farmers, you won't declare an exclusive economic belt, there won't be a restriction in law that there are no sales to foreign legal and natural persons of agricultural land, they won't protect Croatian people, but they will stand in peace when Orban tells him that Croatia The ruins. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178197	Time. Let's move on. Mr. Sasa Djujic is next, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178198	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with Associates, I have said everything I think about the Executive Law in the name of the club in one free speech, I have said everything that should be changed, and now I will read specifically the amendments that I will propose, which I have already proposed, and which I expect it is possible to accept. The club I belong to won't support the final proposal of the Executive Act, but if you accept my amendments, I will support it. Here, so now I'm going to read you my amendments with explanations, I think they're reasonable, I think it's possible to accept them, and I think by accepting these amendments, it would help largely people who have already been done in blockades, help them get out of the problems they are in, and you wouldn't harm the believers, you wouldn't damage the lawyers, you wouldn't damage the public notebooks, you'd just give them less profit on the performance than they have in their current state. So, in Article 18, I propose to add an article 7 which reads: “Law costs in the procedure of enforcement prior to the initiation of a court case shall be borne by the authorising officer if he has hired a lawyer to launch an exercise in the capacity of the authority and only if the executive is a legal person with an annual income of more than 3 million kuna.” Since the launch of the exercise is a very simple procedure job for which creative energy is not needed, and not even any special knowledge should therefore be prohibited from paying that expense to the perpetrator if the executive is a legal person who has a turnover of more than 3 million kuna, which means that such legal person should be able to carry out the executive procedure on his own. This, of course, does not refer to a possible court case that someone later initiates because the litigation procedure has its own rules in which the Implementing Law must not be affected. Second proposal, second amendment refers to Article. 31st and in Art. 31. I propose adding items 6 and 7 which reads, item 6: Tight interest in the executive procedure to which the consumer is a consumer, ceases to run when it reaches the height of the principal. This provision applies to ongoing procedures in such a way as to tighten the interest already charged above the principal's height and that part of the tight interest which has been charged and which has already exceeded the principal's height, shall be rejected from the remaining principal on the day of entry into force of this law and the remaining principal shall continue to be charged without charge of the tight interest. And the new paragraph 7: Exceptionally from the provisions on the order of payment of the due debt prescribed by the Mandatory Relations Act, tighten interest on consumer debt, are charged only after the principal has been charged and after each charge the principal, the tightening interest begins to be charged on the new reduced capital from the date on which it is reduced to the paid part of the principal. Explanation, such a way of collecting tight interest on consumers, would allow the consumer's debt to be gradually reduced in a faster and more efficient way. Consumer debt is the main part of the debt in the Republic of Croatia and consumer protection in such a way would achieve the necessary level of consumer protection that is fully in line with EU law. I note that in the proposed paragraph 6 of the EU court, it has already given its opinion in such a way as to account for tight interest rates that such a way of calculating tight interest is not the opposite of EU law. Item 7 has already been supported by the Croatian Bar Association, so I have the support of the professional lawyer organisation and it is obvious that such a way of determining the debt also corresponds to the legal profession. And finally the last amendment, Amendment 3 to Article 3. 80th, Art. In the 80th, paragraph 2 is added, which reads: On the basis of the proposal of the perpetrators, the court must postpone the performance of the property if the executive public-booked document comes from a contract concluded by the consumer and, depending on the evidence available, the likely integrity of one or more contractual provisions and the consumer has already initiated a judicial procedure for the determination of integrity and restitution, or intends to initiate a judicial procedure for the determination of integrity and restitution within 30 days of the submission of the proposal for a delay in the execution of the property to the court and the delay in that case must take place at least a valid finding on the basis of the court procedure which was initiated. Such a provision shall, above all, be based on the judgment of the EU Court of Justice C-407/18 prohibiting the execution of the property if it is the basis for the performance of the contract with unfair contractual provisions, thereby preventing irreparable damage. Proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia paragraph 11 is not fully in line with the judgment of the EU Court of Justice C-407/18 which unequivocally refers to a binding delay in the implementation of the property if the contract is unfair, I quote paragraph 62 of judgment C-407/18. Therefore, since the court which decides on the proposal for implementation does not have the opportunity to postpone the enforcement because the mortgage agreement contains an unfair provision, it is likely that the confiscation of the property secured by the mortgage will be completed before the court deciding on the criterion is taken up by a decision which may potentially determine the integrity of that provision in the light of its unfairness and hence the final procedure. In these conditions, even if such a decision on the measure was made for the benefit of the consumer concerned, it would thus achieve only protection of the aposteurs in the form of cash compensation, so that such protection would be incomplete and insufficient more so if the seizing of the property concerned the housing of the consumer and his family, which would then finally be lost. Such ex post protection is therefore neither an appropriate nor an effective means to suspend the application of an unfair provision contrary to the objective set out in Article. Paragraph 1 shall apply. See, in this respect, Case C-537/12 and C-116/13 and EU-2013/759, paragraphs 56 and 57 and Case C-116/13 [2013] ECR I to 93/13. So, your proposal from Art. In 70, it refers only to the possibility and my amendment extends this to the obligation to postpone the property if someone has initiated a judicial procedure for the establishment of unfair contractual provisions or an unfair contract with a request for restitution until a judicial finding under such a court procedure. Here, I repeat once again, if you accept my amendments that will surely be reduced by many consumers within 2 to 3 years and may be completely removed, if you accept my amendments, I will support your final proposal for the Executive Law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178199	There's no replica. Now it's Mr. Vlaho Orepic's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Justice. Today we are discussing no less than the 26th Framework Law proposal, which means the 29th year of the establishment of the Croatian state, the 26th was amended by the Executive Law. Dear citizens, to whom I address and whom I greet, if you change something 26 times, it no longer looks like anything. On the other hand, this means that all the political elites that so far ruled Croatia played with the citizens, primarily with the debtors and that they did nothing special, but wanted to get the impression that they were making some effort, a great effort, and we see that from year to year the number of blocked, more than 300,000 citizens completed, several million executions has been carried out so far in the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, I should say, in front of the Party, we change Croatia to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a regulation that will cancel all unfair debts, so we change Croatia from the Party, we think that each must repay its debt, but a fair debt, which is a fair debt? It's the head of the regular interest rate, but which is not just determined by the bank, we already have a verdict, but what is an unfair debt? It's an unfair debt when they charge you with the costs of the performance, the kind they want, when they load you with heavy interest that no one can pay back, etc. So, in the total debt to the unsettled, at least 60% are costs, especially prior to the costs of the tight interest. Why do we change Croatia in the foreign country, we believe that heavy interest is death, the biggest poison that makes people unhappy and creates an army of blocked and completed citizens. So let's remember back there from '94. This base for calculating the tight interest rate was the excess rate of the CNB that was at the time, the tight interest rates were 30%, then 25, 15, now at 9, around 9.5%, so please live already 10.g. in the period of lowest interest rates in history, no one can win if they hold a deposit per year in the bank more than 0.1%. On the other hand, the bank average approves loans in the Republic of Croatia between 4 and 5% means 40-50 times higher. This is a mechanism for sucking up the battery and for slowly, but it certainly means destroying the economy and thus a good part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This executive law, so there was a big event about it, these were called together, these means participants, they, etc., the shaking hills were born niche, not mouse, but niche, this is a cosmetic variant. What is done here, you see, from these stories of the execution should exclude public notebooks, their credible documents, but you have now made one rotten compromise that courts judge, but also public notebooks can still work. You see, dear citizens who, which is a mess in the Croatian judiciary and therefore here, I am already the fourth year of office in this HS, so I haven't heard any important changes here, too, too consistent, which is why this needs to be all over and this sort of thing, this kind of order needs to be brought down in the elections both this government and this way of work, so we take them down in the elections that come democratically, that's what the Constitution, democracy and tradition of democratic freedoms gives us. This executive law is all but a civilizational shame and insults man's dignity, it is certainly the worst executive law in Europe and beyond, it has enabled a rapid, abnormal increase in additional costs to the principal and since we change Croatia, so you know that we are not critics, these are serious people, and we no longer want to engage in trivialities that simply amount to themselves in this HS, often and embarrassing and below each level. Mr. Minister's first proposal, I suggested it 2 years ago, year and time 26, every party in the process has to pay their own expenses, you put it in, and 60% of the executive procedures won't exist, and not that the cost of the execution creates that poor guy who eventually has to pay, the debtor, doesn't matter if he doesn't have a job, is he seriously ill, etc. Our second proposal, to undo all unfair debts, I just explained this one. The third proposal of the Party is to change Croatia, our experts, the reference base for tight interest rates must form and publish the CNB, not banks, the CNB today only publishes, and banks form, banks do not form a basic interest rate anywhere in Europe, so those interest rates and still determine a tight, tight interest rate basis, which is too much. What we're suggesting is that public records can't be the basis for this, you can throw the public notebooks out of these jobs, you promised, you didn't do it. What is humane in the 21st century, what we are proposing to you, and that is the content of the amendments that I have submitted on behalf of the Party, we change Croatia with a good intention of doing something for the benefit of our citizens and that many people, tens of thousands, return to freedom from debt slavery because don't forget many people, especially young people, had to go abroad to earn money to pay off these abnormal debts here. What's the fifth proposal? Listen to this, if a natural person, a debtor, loses his job for a long time or gets sick suddenly, the current calculation of tight interest at that time, they mean they don't exist, is done by Scandinavian countries, Finland, Sweden. I was in Iceland two weeks ago, three or two weeks ago, so they made people my revolution, while here a circus is being made, I went upstairs for four days to talk to people who were in 2008. He's revolutionized his people, there's about 350,000 of them, it's a small country, but she's made big moves first for the world. In this context, I have made concrete 5 proposals and I am asking you on behalf of the citizens and calling on the citizens to support me in this to enter these proposals into this executive law. Otherwise without these, these proposals, this executive law, I'm sorry, but it's not worth anything, it's not worth anything, it's the worst compromises because it doesn't solve anything. He would ask both the legal profession and those who have the right to deal with it every day, how almost all EU countries are determined by the central bank, but based on the rate they form and on the basis and at which they approve loans. And that's what banks do here, how did you put it into the Mandatory Relations Act? You see, therefore, here a lot, a lot of things still remain irresponsible. That's the so-called. The national reference rate, which is the basis for determining tight interest rates, is therefore a bad solution and is added to another 5% for legal persons and 3% for natural persons. In the EU whose member we are, there is no concept of a blocked citizen. You can't be blocked. In 2006 before our era, Solomon, a well-known thinker and statesman, he abolished debt slavery, banned interest, interest, because if the lender could not pay them back due to a bad year, they would have fallen into slavery. He was breaking up, canceling these debts and returning people to the land, and we're living in the 21st century and we're saying that we're on a civilization level. So, on the proposals, on the amendments I've submitted, I hope tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. I repeat a few things. Please don't make us any bad suggestions. We are fed up with it, especially Croatian citizens who cannot sleep because of debts. This financial system in Croatia is privatised by Italian and Austrian banks. They look at their interests and it's natural and it's legitimate, it's legal. But we haven't, you haven't thought, the previous structures that will suck up the accumulation and slowly destroy the economy, we see that industry and citizens fail. So I invite you fellow citizens, let's go out to the elections to finally change this unbearable situation and change Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178201	Now it's Mr. Stjepan's Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178202	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, first of all, I'm going to explain a few or four amendments that I've submitted. What I want to mention again. Absolutely what this law changes, that deep injustice, actually introduces a kind of principle of proportionality. So so far, we have had situations where a major is paid a much higher cost, a much greater fee than that amount is the principal, which is, of course, disproportionate and disproportionate to the amount of the debt, and probably also the procedure itself. Therefore, what needs to be introduced is the principle of absolute proportionality, although according to the announcements of some fees and expenses that the Government will adopt by a regulation, so they are not, they are only foreseen by law and the delegated government is in fact also delegated to adopt this instead of the Parliament or not to be prescribed by law but by a regulation. Currently, for up to 990 kuna, even the old ones would be paid less than the new ones, so 262.50 according to the current law, if the believer or performer made peace after receiving the proposal, and according to some proposals 292, that is not... the objective but only indicates that this level should be taken into account to ensure that fees or costs are in proportion to the amount of the debt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to avoid, what I have pointed out, there are malpractice, intentional attempts to avoid payment or prolonging and delay the proceedings itself by introducing a court in the story, i.e. court proceedings, court proceedings and litigation proceedings. And that's why it's very important that this system in which I just want to draw attention to how this system will react to certain settlements, to the settlement of partly debt, so that it doesn't stop, so that it doesn't lead to even longer procedures, and that it's actually caused a chain reaction that would pay all citizens according to the model as I already said, if the price is 10, to charge 100, 95%, and three percent more of the implementation process, tomorrow if we give these to some mechanisms to the perpetrators that stalled so that this billability falls to 80% be assured that this price of 10 will be 12. And that's the simple reason why all the believers will just cover their expenses and write this off, so if it comes, whenever it comes. And that's what we need to be careful not to let it happen to us with the goal of protecting a particular segment of society, we need to be careful that not everyone else suffers, especially those who pay their own bills, and here the most applies to those who don't pay, and they can and should be particularly highlighted. Also, it means an amendment to the article. The 40th century 7th di is actually behind the word "executors" adds a point and a word unless it is a legal person who is in a blockade, namely that it is not immediately, or even if it is known in the beginning to say a proposal for implementation on the basis of a credible document necessarily contains a proposal to determine the conduct of monetary demand, means only for legal persons, if it is known that the entity is blocked not to seek or provide additional costs because we think that it is uneconomically and dysfunctional to force the executive that its proposal must contain precisely money, if he already knows that the legal person is in the blockade. Why am I saying that? Because everything we want to do here to protect our citizens first of all from disproportionate costs, we would not find certain legal persons who would use it and actually transfer their funding to certain believers and thus stretch the procedure etc., etc. Therefore, I deliberately put only that it applies to legal persons because there is actually an executive who knows that it cannot be settled and in addition to the costs of running the procedure, will have the cost of delivering such an application to the FINA and then is obliged to subscribe to the FINA's application fee and actually knows that it is going to something that is in vain and cannot be charged automatically immediately. Furthermore, what I mentioned in Article 41 for public notebooks that will be determined in order, alphabetical order by jurisdiction of the court, what is important to leave the possibility of actually setting out a statement itself in the prescribed form... whether or not they wish to participate in the procedures of the exercise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just their choice, and whoever wants to deliver that statement, certified, who doesn't want to, can also withdraw it tomorrow and simply can't, can't say we're burdening but not to carry out the performance of those who may not have any interest or financial and no resources to deal with it because so far they've also not been determined for this kind of business even though they should all be able to know... So something pure little, but if we can't liberalize that we can put in a choice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, Article 49, what I asked, means procurement, actually a certificate of power. It is said in the law that without delay Article 49(2) and under official duty, the court will issue a confirmation that the decision on enforcement on the basis of a credible document has acquired the property of power and enforcement. That sounds very nice, but what if it doesn't happen for some reason? So what do we do? And the executive needs that solution. I then envisioned the amendment that if the court fails to issue a certificate in the due time provided for, the superintendent has the right to compensation for the cost of obtaining a certificate of completion by the perpetrators. That means the same as before. They will charge the perpetrator, but the perpetrator has the right to claim that amount from the court according to the rules so far because the court has damaged him because he has not done his job. Let's turn things around a little bit to do, according to the acoustic principle, let's force the court to, to know what's wrong with him, to know that the perpetrator will be able to ask for it. Furthermore, as regards the transitional and final provisions here in the amendment, I foresee that the competent ministry is up to 60 days from the entry into force, so 1.7 can assess whether all the conditions are met, whether it will work because this application is an automatic communication that should go on, it is not known in which way it will work if we have 500 thousand implementations per year that the entry and how if someone pays a certain amount that it will then be reduced, will not be reduced, who will do so, how the perpetrator will deliver that proposal, who will deliver it. So that he doesn't catch one kuna, and then he stops the procedure, and then something's going on and it's counting again, so he's putting it off, etc. So then there's a new procedure, he pays the kuna again, delivers the proposal, and again, the system recognizes that there's been some change. So there's a lot of things that need to be solved, all possible abuses, root out to work. Because the purpose of this system is actually, and because of it we go to lower costs because we throw out those fees that lawyers and public notebooks had, we reduce them precisely because everything is digitized and put into the system of information, forms and monitoring of the whole process and that it goes through automation. And that's why it has to be impeccable, it can't happen to us that we have some vagueness, which in the event of a settlement, who should report, how, in what way, what in the case of partial debt settlement? We're particularly sensitive when someone pays the debt and still gets to him because he may have missed it, hasn't missed the tip, practically no one to turn to in the process. So we don't have anyone here who runs this process anymore, now the perpetrators have called lawyers, negotiated, proposed, settled, delivered payment certificates, then they've withdrawn, etc. Now we don't actually have a party in the process, is it a court, in which way the court will address and I, let me have a certain skepticism when we talk about the court and the efficiency and the economy of the work of the courts, especially efficiency, it's very skeptical to me and all with the aim of not making the proceedings deliberately delayed and that the cost is transferred to the burden of all citizens and those who pay. Here's hoping that something, the Proposer, will be able to amend these amendments freely if necessary with the same goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178203	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178204	Comrade Curaj, executive laws are essentially the biggest problem of eviction, they created a problem and they are essentially the result of the eviction. So now I see this law, I observe, and when I see Dubravko Shuica as Commissioner for Demography, he announces that he will work for the return of people to Croatia. And she and her party have evicted our people. It's like the devil offering to share the honor of the church. How do you comment on this comparison? Those who have evicted the citizens...... Croatia now, now essentially wants them back and that's impossible. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I made a nice comparison for you, what Dubravka Shuica offers to return the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia is just as if the devil were offering to share the honor in the church.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178205	Thank you. Replicant response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178206	Dear fellow Bull, so vivid as ever. First of all, I can't quite agree with you that people are going because of the executive law. That's the consequence, not the cause. The cause is something else, it's obviously indifference, insolvencies, inability to do business for itself, for the family, to make money, to pay those bills, etc. But we have to be aware that one is certain, I think that there and most people are responsible for some executive proposals, they've been in debt, they've been doing costs that they obviously couldn't pay, and they weren't necessary costs, and we need to separate them from those who are not responsible for their own guilt, by raising interest, by raising currency or exchange rates, by losing jobs, by losing their economy, by getting in trouble, there are those who are responsible for it themselves, so as far as the executive law is concerned, we need to make him fair and proportionate to the debt that he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178207	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Snowy Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178208	Thank you, Vice-President HS, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, in recent years the Executive Law has been referred to as a regulation that serves to make it easier and more oscillating to a poor person who has no control over or real estates that are interesting at very low prices. Will the changes announced in this law refer to the most socially endangered citizens? How do you explain that you, Mr. Minister, have not obeyed anyone in the case of the Executive Law compared to the fundamental remarks? Why, sir, if it's in your best interest to please all the damaged parties, why didn't you obey the bill of the Living Wall, the people of the field who've been through countless painful acts? Are you aware that during the performance there are often real estate manipulations, so we have had opportunities countless times, and also at the last operation in Poreč, which has been notified and contacted all, I have personally contacted you and warned you of possible irregularities, in this case I am free to say that there is also doubt about the manipulation of real estate which is very valuable and narrow center Rovinj sold at a very low price, almost 4 times less than the real value. I have addressed you, Mr. Minister, as Parliament's representative and representative of the citizens, to try to solve together the problem of Mr. Hatman, who addressed the Living Wall for help. In fact, Mr. Ivan Hatman was delegated because he was a hostage in such a way as to guarantee his property. But in the process itself, we have seen a series of irregularities that are inadmissible and that your laws that you have already changed many times are good and you are doing it again, it should not have happened, it is actually unacceptable for such failures to occur to which no one reacts. The real estate enforcement was initiated before the object of the lease was taken away and the actual debt situation was established. In fact, the debt card is nowhere to be seen that the amount of debt is reduced for the value of the object leasing machine that has been taken away from the main debtor. You didn't do anything even though you were informed about it all, it was promised that you would personally be interested in the case, you didn't care that the man who built his house with his own hands is dying to know that in such an ugly way you were taking away the only real estate, obviously in an illegal way, you lied to me as a representative, you lied to the gentleman who ended up in the ambulance that day with a bag of your medicines, you promised to help and after that you didn't answer the phone, because of you and your policy, the man ended up on the road, and you're proposing to us today a new Executive Act. In fact, it is incomprehensible that until today no one by the court has responded to a number of complaints from Mr. Hatman's lawyers who really point to a series of irregularities, no one was interested in a series of irregularities that occurred in the process, no one was interested in who and why, how and how much money he bought the house or was interested in, but it must have been. I prayed for all of the above to do something, everything in their capacity to delay this act until all circumstances were determined and to remove any doubt about the irregularity of the procedure, it was the least you could do to save the home and the life of someone and remove doubts about any corrupt actions. Now we're no longer asking you, now we're asking from this High House to examine any irregularities in this procedure. Because of all this, we know that this proposal of yours is not a good one, either. So long as you try to eradicate any suspicion of any corrupt acts for the purpose of someone's wealth, it's not good and it won't be good. This is why our society loses confidence in the institutions of the state and the general legal apparatus, the modified mind is usually not up to the task of introducing order into legislative institutions, lawlessness and anarchy, human rights are threatened and human freedom. But there is still hope if we try to understand all of this, we can still prevent the humiliation and terror of every citizen of this still beautiful one of ours. Disbursement of earnings made to workers and non-payment of wages is a criminal offense for which to go to prison by 3.g. How many large employers are behind bars because of this, and how many people are expelled from their homes and what is very interesting, how many employees in employers do not receive earned salaries at this time, or are paid social, pension, taxes, taxes, taxes, and nothing, times another 2-3 members of their family, how many people are on a forced and income diet that no one is responsible for? Law by road, court practice and state, state will, forest. I ask you, if all those you have done arrive at Mark’s square, all those who do not receive wages with all those who protest every day, will not only Mark’s square, but all the streets of Zagreb be sufficient to show dissatisfaction with your terror that you daily exercise over the citizens of this beautiful one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178209	Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178210	Thank you. Dear colleague Sabolek, I noticed that in this version of the 26th edition of the Executive Law, there was a provision on the so-called 26th order. Secret actions that take place in the late hours of the night or at 1 p.m., at 2 p.m. at 4 p.m. Your party Live Wall, or Activists, are best known to prevent such ruses where you go on human beings inhumanely. Has this provision remained perhaps inspired by your activists that you can't come after half the night, be in an object with those people or someone else's, and are secret actions, the achievement of civilization in the 21st century in Croatia, and what do you think of the shame of why it remains in the proposal of the Executive Law?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178211	Answer, ma'am. Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178212	Thank you. Dear Mr. Lovrinović, therefore, each of the amendments to the law went to the detriment of those who should take care of social responsibility have also proved to be extremely irresponsible in this case. Imagine the horror of the night awakening of already frightened people, so who would agree with that, it's horrifying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178213	- Mrs. Crescent. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178214	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, most of your exposure was to an individual case. I don't think it's a good idea that what we're discussing here is based on certain cases that we don't have enough facts about first. As legislators, we should first of all appreciate that Croatia should be the rule of law and we should respect the principle of government tridivision. So, as we would not like any executive or judicial authority to interfere with the legislation, it is likely and certainly not good for us to interfere with the judiciary in such a way as to comment without sufficient facts. I know there are all kinds of situations and very difficult at personal level, but I think we need to be aware that law enforcement is not social law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178215	Thank you, too. The answer to the replica of Mrs. Crescent. Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178216	Thank you, dear colleague. So as I mentioned in my speech, so long as it doesn't try to eradicate any doubt about any corrupt acts for the purpose of someone's wealth, it's not a good law and it's not going to be good. We're men from the field, we know the situation, and we're transferring it here to you in the Parliament, if you're willing to listen to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178217	Now it's Mr Boris Milosevic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Goran Aleksic, in front of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA and Independent Representatives and New Politics, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178218	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates. I'm going to sum up what I've been saying today, the executive law that we have made possible the enormous profit of individual law offices, people often tell lawyers, not lawyers, but individual law offices that work for large legal entities. He made it possible for public notaries to earn money, he made it possible to earn FINA, he made it possible for creditors to earn money on tight interest particularly from the previous period when the tight interest rates were huge, he brought people into an unexplainable situation, in health problems, there are also marital shipwrecks, there are suicides, there's everything and everything. And that is why the new Implementing Law should be exactly the opposite of that Implementing Law, which allowed the general misfortune of a large part of Croatian citizens. I have proposed amendments that would help people to come, to stand on their feet, to settle their debts and at the same time not to damage the believers because the believers would get their debts. So I repeat what I have suggested, in short, I suggest that the legal costs in case a large legal person with an income of more than 3 million kunas hires a lawyer are not charged by the perpetrators. I suggest changing the order of charge that is now going in a way that first collects a tight interest and then the principal, I suggest that it turn around, first charge the principal, then tighten the interest and that it applies only to consumers as the most vulnerable group of perpetrators. I suggest that the tightening interest be limited to the height of the principal and that it be applied retroactively. As I said, if the Constitution is justified, it allows certain legal provisions to be applied retroactively. And I finally propose that a binding provision be prescribed that, in the case of the execution of proceedings against the credentials on grounds of an unfair contract or an unfair contractual provision be prescribed to suspend the exercise in such a case until the end of a court dispute which is in accordance with EU law, first and foremost, with the ruling of the EU Court of Justice C407/18, because what is currently proposed in the final draft of the law as on the basis of that judgment is not what is intended to achieve that verdict. The EU court wants to reach that verdict that the delay in the exercise must be carried out, not that it is the possibility itself. And I finally propose to the Ministry of Economy that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice should consider a way to help hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens execute banks together with the Ministry of Economy. The banks also negotiated unfair contractual provisions on a variable interest rate and on the CHF currency clause. They negotiated unfair provisions on a variable interest rate in all currencies of credit not only in Swiss francs but also in kunas and in euro, agreed on an interest rate which was changed by a decision of the bank and which was subsequently raised. In this way, banks have damaged consumers with the CHF currency clause by 20 billion kuna and other consumers by around 5 billion kuna. So I suggest that the Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Economy, draw up a specific plan to allow such consumers easier access to the courts in a way that frees them from paying all court costs, until the end of a court dispute where in the end all these costs would be paid by the one who loses the court dispute and in any case, in 100% of the cases, the bank. I would also suggest that a certain committee be formed at the Ministry of Economy in the cooperation of the Ministry of Justice and the Franak Association and that this one committee assists the debtors with legal advice in bringing their claims on the basis of a collective ruling in the Franak case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178219	We don't have a replica. On behalf of the promoter, the final minister, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, will speak, please welcome the justice ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, I thank everyone for the debate. The executive law is indeed an important law and topic that touches many of our people in that negative context and that is why we have also conducted a whole series of public debates, round tables where we are discussing which best solutions we can take here. I mean that, what we're proposing in this law, and that's digitization, that's an electronic process within the entire performance, that's something that's waiting for us either today or tomorrow or any time in the future but that's something we can't get around anymore. What we must respect through the exercise is the decision of the Court of Justice of the EU is that we must indeed have one function in which we must give the performer the opportunity to declare whether or not the debt he is charged with is recognised. The EU Court also said that public notaries are not a body that can make decisions on the performance, and as we can see they do not accept when they are made in relation to foreign citizens and legal persons, they do not actually accept the system and those other countries. And dualism in the system has one for our citizens and the other for the sides, I don't think it's acceptable. And that's why we're going back to court, which is extremely important. Again here, the same thing was the objection to throw out public notebooks, let's not burden the court, which is also a question relevant to who needs to be discussed. Just because we don't burden the court and don't go back to when we had a million and 600 thousand unsolved cases in the courts, we left public notebooks doing those administrative jobs this time for the court. And the final decision is based on that. There was also talk as long as it would take, it would take me to try to say it on one example, it really has to go quickly because if for all of us we prescribed patterns, if everything goes in a circle by electronic means, then it must be quick. On the other hand, we're socially sensitive, we've protected one real estate in several ways, we've protected the very purpose of any real estate related to the amount of, that it can't go to the real estate of the execution when it's up to 40,000 kuna, so that's more than 40 when we're counting interest. We are also here if you come and if someone makes their only real estate as collateral, if it comes to the sale of such property, it already exists in the current law that the Republic of Croatia protects such a citizen, that it pays him accommodation for 18 months. We have expanded and increased the number of incomes that are excluded from the performance, from the resurrections, the Christmases, the diaries, the compensation for a warm meal, the compensation for a separate life, all this is no longer feasible. So we left a certain amount of resources that we think we shouldn't go on top of and that it would still make some kind of life possible. Some things, some things we can't accept, and some things we think that this relationship and the role of creditors and debtors must be even because the situation in practice can be like this, the believers are different, they are also underage children to whom someone has not paid child support, so they have nothing to live on, they are mothers together with them, and the enforcement is such a system where we have to allow our citizens and the believers to get their search done as soon as possible, but with as little damage as possible by the debtor. I think this is what we're guessing at, and I'd just say, the government of the Republic of Croatia in this past period has done a lot for our blocked citizens, there were about 330 thousand of them, today there are about 240 thousand of them with a tendency to keep that number going down. The total debt that was by block was over 40 billion, today it's about 15, 16 billion. So I think this proposal is, I think it's a good proposal, it's a step forward. We have more amendments here now, so we will discuss each amendment, and by the time we vote, we will set ourselves up against these amendments that you yourself have made here, which you yourselves have proposed. I thank everyone again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178221	I thank the Minister. We have three replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178222	Thank you. Dear Minister Bošnjaković, the fact that there is no direct transmission on public television debates on the Council's proposal of the Executive Law speaks in itself enough that the public, that you wanted to exclude the public from this, that you do not consider this an important problem. Furthermore, you have not reached a decision to suspend the conduct of what you have spoken of by the European Court of Justice, to rule on these unfair meanings of contracts and actions and on the subject of self-application before the European Court of Justice because you do not respect the European Court of Justice. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise this in particular, Pope Francis wrote a book called "This Economy Kills" a few years ago, and I would paraphrasise and say this is the executive law that kills. The Catholic Church in Croatia should have stood more in the defense of the poor, which it destitutes and throws the Executive Law into misery. It's not too late because it's just against everything, this screams to the sky. We can't do this. We will undo all unfair debts. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178223	Thank you, thank you. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178224	Thank you very much, but as far as the public's concerned, I've already been present in public for over a year and a half with this kind of executive law. If someone had a better law that would harmonize everything required by the EU court's verdict, I would be right behind it. For example, the provision that you are proposing, which you suggest that everyone should bear their own expense, so now imagine one child whom someone has not paid for, whose father has not paid child support, he has to go into action and bear the costs and the commission himself in order to get to what he owns under the law, is that justice, is that justice? Definitely not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178225	Thank you. Switched to the next replica, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178226	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I don't think these changes will speed up the execution processes in Croatia like you said in the final address, but on the contrary, I think they will extend them. Public notebooks, not a problem in public notebooks, the problem is in the expenses they charge and then that for 25 kuna, someone has to pay 1,000 and more kunas when they take these expenses. It's just not normal, I don't have any other words for it. So those fees should be in line with the debts, too. You said that a significant number of perpetrators have been reduced, that is true, but there are still too many, there are still 230,000 people in Croatia under wraps, and I am very interested in what number of those who have these small and minimal debts where the fees and costs of the execution are much higher than the original debt itself. And on that, I think we should end this practice of enormous wealth and public notebooks and certain law firms. Nothing was done there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178227	Thank you. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178228	Well, you're one of the few who claims we'll have slower treatment. Well, we've just prescribed all the forms, we've prescribed the digitization of all the participants. So you're filling out forms today, pressing the inside and sending out that document. So, no papers, no mail, no mail costs. What you're saying is we've cut costs, of course not. One lawyer will no longer be entitled to the cost of putting together a proposal for a performance, which are very often high, why, because it will fill out the form. Yesterday he went out and charged to obtain confirmation of the power of decision, and it is no longer because it is all in that system. We have limited the fees for public notebooks for items of up to 5,000 kuna and those of over 5,000 kuna. So we're working on it. And as for these blocked ones there's actually a tendency of further decline, there's a tendency of further decline due to those three government measures. Something the government fired, something that's unblocked and something about consumer bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178229	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178230	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I'd like to take your word for it, and believe that reality isn't any different, I should have changed my address recently. In the E-Citizens' system, I couldn't do it, it's about a government office, but I could go there myself because my system wouldn't let me change my address at all. I'm curious, but that's another topic, I'm interested in you talking about patterns, talking about e-business, is the platform over. Is the platform put on the test run and does it work and if it isn't? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178231	Thank you. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178232	We have foreseen this law so that the law enters into force on July 1st of the following year. One part of the platform is known and is given, but this part that depends on the concrete text of the law will be implemented very soon after the law is passed. We will conduct the full education of all participants, and we think that this is an appropriate time 1.7. We've heard here that we should go to 2, 3 years, but we'll be quick and we'll be ready in 1.7.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178233	I thank the Minister for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Minister of Justice, Mr Drazen Bosnjak and State Secretary Josip Salapic, for the reasons of the final bill and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178234	Final proposal of the Executive Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 676. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and due to a number of amendments submitted to the text of the final proposal of the Executive Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the third reading be carried out on this legislative proposal, so I am now voting on the following conclusion: "On the final proposal of the Executive Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 676 will be held third reading." Please vote. I find that most of the 90 votes for, 3 abstentions and 28 against the conclusion reached in line with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178235	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Fire Department, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 798. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I call on Secretary of State Mr. Zarko Katic to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178236	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam MPs, respected gentlemen, the initial basis for the creation of an overall normative framework that will regulate fire-fighting activities as an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia has been established by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Circularity of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, which was adopted last year, which prescribed that the special law will regulate the fire-fighting activity at the latest on 1 January 2020. At the same time as 1 January 2020, the abovementioned amendments to the law have been established by a central state office called the Croatian Fire Department for the conduct of administrative and professional activities relating to fire. The fire activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and needs to be regulated as a complete and effective system for citizens and the economy since it ensures the implementation of fire protection measures and technological explosions, the rescue of people and property as well as the provision of technical assistance in various accidents and dangerous conditions. All of the above obliges us to have the entire fire system operational since 1 January 2020. The proposal of the Fire Department with the final draft law aims to create normative, organisational, technical and financial assumptions that the Croatian Fire Community as a central state office for firefighting matters has all the necessary conditions for smooth work. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that the reasons set out in Article 204 have been obtained. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to discuss the draft Fire Department Act and to adopt an urgent procedure. The text of the law is therefore referred to as the final draft law. In the event that the law governing firefighting does not enter into force on 1 January 2020, it is primarily questionable to the safety of people and property, and then to the sustainability and integrity of the system, as it will question fire activity in the organisational, financial and implementation form which can have direct consequences for citizens, the economy, other stakeholders and the environment. Allow me, honourable MPs and MPs to give you only very briefly certain figures which I believe will show a blood count of Croatian fire department at this time. So, in the Republic of Croatia, there are a number of fire-fighting organisations that we are going to list voluntary fire-fighting units in economy 32, voluntary fire-fighting companies 1,757, public fire-fighting units are professional, so these are professional firefighters 70, professional fire-fighting units in economy 22, then fire-fighting communities of the city, cities 63, fire-fighting communities of the area 28, fire-fighting communities of 131, fire-fighting communities of the county and the City of Zagreb 21 and of course the Croatian Fire-fighting community. Overall, according to the latest data, 3,645 firefighters defend us, from that in the public fire departments 2,707 and 938 active firefighters in voluntary fire companies, as I said to the municipalities, cities and areas. Currently, the Fire Department Act was adopted in 1999 and has entered into force since 1 January 2000. The application of this law has shown that there are problems with the dual jurisdiction of firefighting, which has been an obstacle to the more detailed normative regulation of fire work and to the establishment of a single system of education. An insufficiently consistent command system or chain of command in some units of local self-government has resulted in problems during fire interventions. The selective financing of firefighting from the state budget has therefore contributed to the uneven development of the fire department in the area of the Republic of Croatia. This bill seeks to remove certain difficulties encountered in the application of the current law. As the most important intention is to remove the parallel jurisdiction of fire at national level, to establish a consistent system of command, to enable units of local self-government to have the same starting point for the establishment of an efficient fire department. Similarly, the aim is to level the conditions for carrying out fire work, to regulate the way in which fire and fire operations are carried out and to participate in fire intervention. Then carry out fire activities at national, regional and local level, as well as carrying out fire-fighting activities of fire-fighting communities, professional fire-fighting units and voluntary fire-fighting companies. The proposal for a law lays down the rights and obligations of the authorities, units of local and regional self-government and means of adopting strategic documents of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the bill include the establishment, jurisdiction and headquarters of the Croatian Fire Department, the fire departments of the county, the City of Zagreb, the municipalities, cities and areas responsible for all fire departments at a certain level and with relevant public powers. Furthermore, the responsibility and responsibility and the duration of the term of office of the president and fire-fighting commanders of the fire-fighting communities, so County, City of Zagreb, municipalities, cities and areas, as well as professional fire-fighting units and voluntary fire-fighting companies with precisely prescribed competencies, composition, method of choice, appointment and resolution, part-time work, decision-making and responsibility to members and also public powers shall be governed. The conditions for carrying out fireman's duties, conditions for the employment of professional firefighters and firemen with special powers and responsibilities, conditions for the performance of voluntary and seasonal fire departments, means of determining the physical and mental capacity of professional and voluntary firefighters, the production of firearms' certificates, computer application of the Croatian Fire department for the record of firefighters, techniques, equipment, interventions, the right of professional firemen to go to an increased duration, the organisation of the work of firemen, the participation of volunteer firemen who did not have a working relationship with firemen, the right of professional firemen to go to a disability pension due to injury or a professional illness, in an old age pension or temporary retirement pension, as well as the right of persons with disabilities and the right to exercise in a special manner, in which we would not be aware of the need of the law of the law of the law of the law of the persons, in which we would be aware of the law of the law of the law of law and of law in the law, of law, of law of law and of law and of law of law of law, of law, of law of law, of law and of law and of law and of law, of law, of law, of law in the persons in which in which in the law, in which, in the law, in the law, in which of law, in case in the law, in the law, in the law of law and of law of law of law of law of law and of law of law of law of law, of law, in the law of law, in case of law of law and of law, in respect of law and of law, in respect of law of law, in respect of law of law, in respect of law of law and of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law, in the persons of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law and of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law of law, in the persons of law of law, in the persons of law of law of law of law This law also introduces certain rights for the first time, such as the right to psychological assistance of a firefighter who participated in the intervention and attended greater traumatic stress, then the right to severance and health insurance of volunteer firefighters. Following what I have said, the adoption of this law will establish one competent institution for fire at national level, we believe that this will allow the smooth development of the fire system with regard to normative arrangements, then proposing state-level documents such as the national strategy for the development of fire or the fire plan of the Republic of Croatia that are regulated by Article. 48. The final bill, then more effective training and training of firefighters, a better quality inspection of fire departments, and a better withdrawal of funds from EU funds. A further more consistent system of command will be established on the basis of which the command verticals will be more closely connected and will enable and disable parallel command responsibilities at local level which will positively affect the efficiency of the fire system in interventions at extraordinary events such as large open-air fires that we witness practically every summer, floods and others, other major natural or technological accidents and accidents involving fire-fighting forces from several local or regional self-government units. The chief fire commander responsible for the training, organisation and equipment of firefighters will assume jurisdiction over fire inspection as it is in the best-organised European countries. The national fire school will be more closely linked to the fire organisation and will take over training, training and training of firefighters as well as in countries that can be our role model, a single system of education of professional and volunteer firefighters and fire commanders will be prescribed, which will affect the professional progress of overall fire departments. Better supervision of insurance premiums will improve the level of protection against fires in smaller towns and municipalities, which is particularly important for protecting against open-air fires on the coast, as less environments such as municipalities or cities, small islands in Dalmatia, will be able to organise a more efficient fire service. It is established by this law and a fire network that will regulate the financing of all firemen and fire departments. The fire network is regulated. 116th of this bill, it is proposed by the chief fire chief of the government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted the Fire Network Regulation within a year of the entry into force of this law. All of this we hold in mind that it will improve the overall fire system and allow for more efficient fire operations in the Republic of Croatia. Here are the honourable MPs and MPs, which is the shortest on the draft Fire Department bill with the final draft law, and in case of need, we will answer your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178237	I thank the Secretary of State. We have replicas, dear colleague Stephen Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178238	Thank you, Vice President HS. So I have some specific questions, what you've raised has a lot of inaccuracy, I'm sorry they haven't prepared you a little bit better, before you said that we're being defended by 900 volunteer firefighters, when you look at the number defending us 21912, it's from the Croatian Fire Department, so there's 1845 DVDs, so that's about 20,000, not 900, maybe you've read wrong. It is regrettable that this law means the Croatian Fire Department, which was founded in 1876, does you know, means by their Statute, Art. 58th, as this community is shut down and why it's not working on that principle, why isn't the assembly held when there's a president here on this side of the left side, so sit down, why didn't he call the assembly and together with his fellow firefighters solve it and how we're talking about education that the chief commander is enough to have short expert study, and the county and public must have high professional training. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178239	I thank my colleague Kovac. Secretary of State Katic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178240	I've spoken to the esteemed Mr. Representative about firemen who receive salaries, of course we have 22,000 operational firemen who can help put out fires at any time, and we believe that this bill will make them more educated, more qualified and have sufficient means to equip and operate and under the most difficult conditions. The Croatian Fire Department does not stop working, so it works, it will work in a different form and will be a central state body for, not only for voluntary fire like so far, but for overall fire in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178241	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, given the information you have provided on the number of operational, voluntary firefighters, it is no wonder that this entire law energises voluntary fire. And yet, my question is focused on the following. It is already humiliating enough that such an important law comes at this demoting time for discussion and is being discussed in these late hours. However, I am interested in why the procedure on 30 days of public debate is not respected, but she... for 15 days, and why were more than 600 remarks sent to this law by volunteer firefighters? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178243	Thank you. State Secretary Katic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178244	As laws were drawn up, municipalities and cities, social partners were consulted and a broad public debate was held, all counties and major cities were discussed among firemen. As for the observations, they were all considered and some of them were respected and included in the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178245	Thank you. The next replica of a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic, please welcome a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178246	Thank you very much. Mr. Katic, you've listed the number of firefighters, as many as there are in which, these firefighters have made the biggest remarks on this bill. And now my colleagues have said, the law of about 80 pages 150 pages of objections, mostly by firefighters. I can tell you responsibly, because I am also a firefighter and member of a voluntary fire department that the fire community of my county from which I come the Primorje-Gorski County and the coordination of fire communities, Istria, the Primorje-Gorski and Lika-Senj County did not have a chance to discuss this law until the moment of public debate, a reduction of these 15 days. He's a fellow Sanader, laugh, that's right. They gave you a bunch of objections none of them were accepted. The second you did not respond to your colleagues, according to the Croatian Fire Department statute, it can only be extinguished by a three-quarters decision by a non-invited assembly. And Article 125 of the Law states: “The Croatian Fire Department ceases to work in 1.1.2020, and that is the only truth. The Croatian Fire Department also exists today under the Law on Associations and not by what you say and cannot say that it works in any other form. Because the government agency, or office, is not a roof organization, thank you very much. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178247	Thank you very much. I'm glad you're passionate. Secretary of State Katic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178248	The Croatian Fire Community is currently acting as an association of citizens, this is true, as of 1 January 2020 it will become the Central State Office called the Croatian Fire Department, which will carry out the fire operation in total, both for professional and voluntary firefighters in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178249	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178250	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Katic, we've known for a year that this law should be passed. In this House, they passed a series of laws in the first and second readings for which we do not know why they go to the first and second readings. And this law you decided in the emergency procedure, you got 635 remarks and suggestions and about 90% of them you said you didn't accept, you didn't consider everything else. So on the one hand, you have an absolutely exasperated emergency procedure, and you've come into a situation where last week of the Parliament, we have this in debate, of course, with the hours that the President of the Parliament has decided. But through the provision of Article 116, it was very easy to pass. You said that the fire network would be proposed by the chief fire commander and that it would be financed from the dedicated rate of income tax and from the State budget. What means are we talking about? What amount are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178251	Thank you. Secretary of State Katic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178252	Your Honor, ma'am. I have already answered the MPs about these remarks, so the comments have all been considered and one part has been adopted, one law does not adopt all objections. As regards the funds to be provided in 2020, the word is about... millions of resources total, of which are resources from the state budget and the budget of units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178253	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178254	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, the Proposed Fire Law with the Final Bill of Law I think you should go to second reading because 700 objections to this bill tell everyone about this law that this is not the way this procedure should be adopted. But of course, we see that the Croatian Fire Department is getting a new role, to the role of whether it is, whether it will be the law, whether it will be installed legally but is the fact that we can call it after the chairman of the fire department and our colleague Anti Sanader, so I would call this Lex Ante Sanader. Because it's simply done exactly according to his standards. Of course we're opposed to going in one reading, 700 complaints are too much, just give, let's allow another reading, let's also have a public discussion. We see that there are a number of fire communities, societies, that they have been involved in their objections. I ask you to withdraw, i.e. That this law goes to another reading if you don't want to pull it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178255	Thank you. We're moving on to our next replica, dear colleague, Marco Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178256	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's what I'm going to say is that in this law, which, in formal terms, I've been listening to in some informal contacts for a year. And then I would expect at least respect for one legal procedure in public debate to expect a law that will go into normal procedure, in two readings, to discuss one complex matter together and see how we can improve it. But here we have a situation to do absolutely the opposite. And actually with this one relationship, even with this one, we're discussing in the late evenings, we're showing a sad attitude towards firemen. Dear Secretary of State, it is not true that you have held a debate with the units of local self-government, in particular I will say with the cities, we have recently had the Assembly of the Association of Cities, mayors from all options, even most of them from HDZ are highly opposed to such a bill because you have absolutely brought all the funding down to local self-government units. And please once again answer why the Croatian Fire Department was not held, the same question was asked by my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178257	Thank you. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178258	Thank you, dear Vice President. I just have one question... certain qualifications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, Article 51 states that a person who is admitted to the workplace of a professional fireman must have the following conditions, so he says that the acquired qualification at levels 4.1 or 4.2 is either a three-year or a four-year or acquired fire direction qualification. Now, the previous law said he had to have a high school fire department, if not within two years of his admission to complete requalification. And here it says acquired qualification, I don't know if it means fire school or basic school plus some qualification, and then when it comes to hiring a chief fire chief we're talking about pre-graduate, graduate, university, professional, and so on and so forth for 10 years of experience or pre-graduate professional study, or a short vocational study. I don't know what that means for three years and why not a pre-graduate university study.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178259	I thank my colleague Curai. We move on to the next line, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178260	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, you said, among other things, that this law will regulate and finance in the fire department, and there are really articles that refer to funding and that the funds for the financing of firefighting are obliged to provide cities and municipalities in their budgets depending on their size, which means 2, 3 5% and so on. The rest will be financed from the state budget. Furthermore, when it comes to criminal provisions, you punish the municipal mayor, mayor or mayor of Zagreb with 2 to 10 thousand kuna fines and we know that the budgets are brought by the city council, so I think it is unfair to punish the mayor or the mayor for something that the council is responsible for.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178261	Thank you. Would the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Opening... No, Mr. Grmoy, we don't have a record. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You did. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, I'll take your word for it. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178262	So I was curious, so this law we see that it's being brought in somehow in these late hours and in an emergency reading, fellow Bulj is talking about being behind it by Ante Sanader, we hear fellow mayors and mayors who say they're dissatisfied with HDZ mayors and mayors. So there's a certain dissatisfaction with this bill. I'm curious to know what the status of voluntary fire departments is under this law? It's our tradition. My grandfather was a member of a voluntary fire company. It is a tradition of fire in Croatia, in fact, it all came out of it. And in fact, people who are the most prominent, who have given their lives, and we have a case that is the most famous in the Croatian public where it is also about voluntary fire. I'm curious about their status under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178263	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178264	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So essentially in the law, the position of voluntary fire companies, therefore their establishment, does not change, but the position of volunteer firefighters is improved, it improves, therefore with regard to their training, health checks, equipment. In the event of a loss, so they have the right to health insurance, they have the right as I said to psychological assistance, the family has the right to compensation and assistance in the event of an accident. Thus, their overall position is improved as persons involved in very risky interventions and thus strengthens them and in some ways seems more ready to act in difficult situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178265	Thank you. Could the committee's rapporteurs possibly want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178266	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here we have a quick draft of the Fire Department bill, with a final proposal. And I was surprised when I saw how many complaints there were, meaning 700 complaints, and it was mostly fire companies, fire communities, county communities, municipal communities, meaning city societies, which says that this law did not come prepared, that this law meant it was constructed into an incubator of interest, in an incubator of control of the centralisation of firepower in the Republic of Croatia which would obviously do damage. So I once again said that because of all these things that my colleagues said in replicas, all these problems that it would be good for this law to either withdraw or be given in 2 readings. Because this law is really like this at this time to get through at the end of this session, at this time it's really beneath every level and dignity of firefighting in the Republic of Croatia, starting with voluntary firefighting from my Sinj where my members were 907. where even families participated in the establishment of this fire department 112 years ago, to professional firefighters, public fire departments and other firefighters who were in other units. I believe that this law is here and the Croatian Fire Department is moving from association to state to central state office into some body, and how much information do I have that 3/4 members' associations should be against, so against. We do not have any evidence here that this was ever done, whether a assembly of the Croatian Community's association for the Croatian Fire Department was conducted, and I believe that the Tribal would think about it and that it would not mean that the fire department would always bring for political purposes. And that's the worst thing for a fireman because firefighters don't deserve it, firemen don't deserve it the same way as the firemen in Vrgorec, from Vodice ev. Frana Lucić is a fireman who survived for years and years he had to fight for his rights because the bad messages were for the fire. We see here that the chain of command, say the chief fire commander may have a higher, and the county fire commander should have a high-level expert gear, can you explain why? Reading these laws is very important funding, of course we're talking about funding and institutional to this centralization. Funding is quite decentralised, it will pay for local self-government, while, of course, local self-government, while centralizing everything according to so-called. the new Croatian Fire Department, which will be the central body. This is a mess, because simply this many complaints from firefighters, people who are on fire, from the unions of state and local officials, there are a large number of signs of opposition and you are yourselves witnesses, I think a little less than 700 complaints, 600 and something. I think that this was a short time to go to one reading, so I would say once again that we should go to another reading. And it would be minimally polite to listen to all these things that MPs are going to tell you because we're simply going to pass a bad law and it's not good. As for volunteer fire, I think this voluntary fire department, here I see in these comments, I also see in stories, volunteer firefighters means the Nucleus Fire Department of the Republic. Voluntary fire department needs to cultivate and cultivate from it quality firefighters and I believe that and therefore there is another, another reason to bring this into two readings. To bring this into two readings it will repeat this all the time because lex Sanader this law is otherwise lex Sanader Ante because he shuts down this association himself as president. He made a decision without a congregation or a body, without respecting the law on associations where 3/4 members of the association are tribunes to be against the shut-down, means to shut down or against, but I don't see that decision here. I don't see that decision here, I know it wants to centralize firepower, but it's not good for a shortcut to work. And then the triba on this debate that the triba go to another reading. I think you've all seen your HDZ colleagues as much as there are objections here, look what this is. So, fire communities, voluntary societies, individuals, firefighters, unions, units of local self-government, numerous, numerous comments, and of course we're raising a new body of fire community that is essentially this central office, and we're shutting down the association and we don't have a decision to shut down the association. Has the decision to shut down the association been made, has it not? That is why it would be good if, between these two readings, I ask you that, because we simply do not have the legal conditions, that President Ante Sanader call the Croatian Fire Community and make that decision that shut down the Croatian Fire Community in the form of an association. So now we're discussing one body that's not shut down to talk to another, and members can't vote against the statutes of 3/4. I think it would be good, here are your colleagues from the opposition, and I believe your HDZ colleagues agree that this goes to another reading because there's no reason why this doesn't go through another reading, to get ready, to listen to these comments, and to look at this all together again, to hear the screams of both MPs and those who are even voluntary firefighters. When I was a professional soldier I was both a fireman and in various dedicated organized forces so I know how it all works, I know that the system stands to be arranged, who when and how. It's all a tribune to take care of. The system of operation is a command but must not be done on a shortcut, to the harm of the fire department of the Republic of Croatia, especially voluntary fire. Voluntary fire is tradition and nucleus. Here I am talking about my son, here's 907. In 1907, a voluntary fire company was established. So in other parts, other cities, they're a symbol, they're an icon of that area. Of course professional units are also very important and important and they are additional strength. I am sorry that this was not reciprocally made towards the county, so let's say the largest county of Split-Dalmatia has the least allocation of funds for a public fire unit. As long as I think three times, twice as many of the Istrian County. These are again the political circumstances in which the government is located, and then it opens up that way and this public fire force means I think it is, I ask you to withdraw on behalf of the MOST Club. either withdraw this law or because of the correctness and numerous objections of the participants who have given in the public debate that I have heard that it has been shortened to 15 days otherwise it should be at least 30 days, that we have 700 complaints from people who live and work in the fire department from communities, societies, associations dealing with it, local self-government, unions, and advocates who have made certain objections to this going to another reading, will not fall the crown from their heads, and not in these hours for the end of the session, means now before the end of this session. this session is so that this Fire Department is being passed. Would you like to answer me if you would withdraw, would you give this law to another reading or not? Here I would like this law to ask you to go, to demand, to go to another reading or to withdraw it, to prepare, to read the objections, to listen to the MPs, to ask you to answer, to know clearly how to behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178267	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club esteemed colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178268	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear Mr Katiæ with associate, colleague and colleague, before the end of the working day in HS, although this will take a little while longer, we have a proposal for the Fireman's, Fire Department, first and second reading or emergency procedure. Very rarely we had laws on first and second readings, what we had was connected possibly to the EU Directive and very, very rarely came laws and we appreciated it, we appreciated that we had the opportunity in the first and second readings even though it was one very, very interesting law in the field of agriculture where we abolished one of the organizational forms, so we had it in two readings and just when we finished those two readings then it was the government's decision to end it all together, and then we abolished it. It was a year ahead of us, it could pass the first reading in the first half of the year, the second in the second, what counterpart Katic says, so there is no law where all remarks are accepted. But you look, of the 635 remarks, almost everything was rejected, you haven't even considered it at all, you haven't even tried. We at the GLAS Club are discussing laws in a way that we always watch what the point is and what the goal is. If we understand the meaning and purpose then somehow we find an excuse even though some other things are wrong, then I have to admit that somehow we find an excuse. But what is the meaning and purpose of this law? Let's talk about some things, climate change is a fact, that fact is opposed to Mr Trump and no one else, you absolutely don't need to be an expert in determining that. The fact is that there will be fires, unfortunately more than there has been, that we have a flood, that there will be ice skating, that is the third vision that is especially for this area that you cannot detect or absolutely have some signals that are small, smaller and that are involved by firefighters. We actually have a history of fire that in these areas was partly voluntary, partly professional, and these firefighters were actually doing a good job. But obviously with us in the Republic of Croatia, it's really annoying when something works, because if something works, it pisses us off, and let's go now, we always start with us from the beginning. You're on one TV show tonight, and I'm watching it because my cousin is acting, so I'm looking for that reason, and that show is happening in Lica, and now even the one who's watching is going to know and everything's going on there around those firemen who are going to go off a little bit, so no, now it's, there's some business space in the rent, so now the question is how are they going to vote in the assembly, they're not going to vote. I have a feeling that between this law that we have here and that series there's no big difference. I wonder why we decided something that works to turn into some other form, what's that motive? Here in one part when you go to that explanation, it is always a convenient part of the law then in that explanation you find some, some reasons, and then let's see at all what this motive is and then say, let's say the fire department of the Croatian Fire Department will be an executive operating body, have a permanent and occasional composition and now say what is permanent, which is occasional and there we end the provision of art. 8 and we don't say what happens next, then in one explanation we say decentralisation, and then from everything else you see is that the whole law is complicated to one, I'm not going to say, I might use a rough word, but no new paramilitary system with a clear centralization that's tightly tied to the state budget. In the state budget you have 231 million kunas for this year and I asked you how long it would take millions of kunas to set up a fire network, I think I heard some 800, some other figure, so I'm wondering what it's going to be from 231 to 800? What am I saying? If you have something that works, what are the motives and reasons that we're going to do a new system? Maybe this is where he says everyone, all units of local self-government who don't have established professional fire departments, will have to do it, that this one, that funding, will be based on the state budget. On the one hand, we are kind of in favour of decentralisation, but on the other hand we all have to make sure that they come to the state's mangers and that they pray there, and that it depends equally on you when you read this law, and sometimes you have a flaw in having parliamentary representatives who read it, so it's convenient that this obligation of the fireman's rights and obligations, so now you have the political action of the fireman article 65, who says that the fireman must not act politically in the fire department and must not be present in the official uniform with party and other political gatherings, so what he should do, so there is how and when the strike is allowed, he must not strike and everything else. So if I had two arguments that would clearly tell my people what we have doesn't work, it doesn't work after what and a few years it's not good, we're going to go into something new now, but it's going to be something new. I'm not inclined to use hard words because I think it actually speaks more of someone who speaks to someone who talks, we have a country whose economy works on tourism, we have a little bit of entrepreneurship, but the question is what we have, there are 4 million of us, we have a lot of public administration employees, and we have the opportunity to see for ourselves, and by all accounts, when you see how this law has been laid down, we'll have another body that will be tied exclusively to the state budget where certain people will be employed and where some people will work, so that those who have not been employed in public administrations so far, who have not been employed in certain municipalities and counties will now be able to work. Is that what this is about? Is that what we want? Do we want to have that kind of fire? The same way we've already learned that by the term the law gets the patience, we know what the problem is. Usually when you succeed from the opposition some law gets to the plenary session then it's in this term or when the rulings have some laws that they don't like to talk too much about then we get it in this term as well. Here you can absolutely see the way that pyramid works. What we warned when it was and that debate at the end of last year that you were in fact that the whole law and that the whole organization was going in a way that we turned the State Protection and Rescue Authority and everything was taken over by the Croatian Fire Department that was founded, that there I would really say we have an army, we have the police, we have now firefighters who are now professionalising in terms of action and in terms of climate change, well that we have them, but still and I will do it the third time again, I don't know how many times I'm going to repeat it. We have something that works, if we have something that we're satisfied with, then let's help it work a little bit better, but don't give up and say it all together doesn't work out from the beginning. I will return to these remarks that were, and these remarks when you see that they were remarks from firefighters who say we are firefighters from that and that county, organized in this and that way and the comments were ok, vaguely written, explain, bind, which means, from where the funds are provided, from where education, how education is provided. Unfortunately, as Mr Katić said, we were just joking here, and we don't care, but we'll work in one other way, and when you take this provision from Article 116, that's me and the Legislative Committee that I've asked and I'm asking here, exactly says the network and everything, and we're proposing the chief fire commander, and we're funding the commander from the state budget, the funds will be from the income tax rate and the rest, will be defined by all the regulations and all that decentralisation that we're going to be campaigning for. The decentralisations that were good indeed because they were DVDs at the level of individual municipalities and cities, all of this would fall into the water because we would have a clear command pyramid and in that clear command pyramid we would function further. So now you can do it one way or another. You could have done all this together through a two-reading law, we would have pointed out on our first reading, and somehow we would have had hope, let's go to the second reading to get a little better and all together, come in the second reading and say formally that you've improved something, and here you didn't have any will, no desire, no energy to discuss at all, you're going to have an emergency procedure, they're going to tell their story, and you're going to do yours. What you said clearly, and clearly you said that you would have some very interesting bodies, that you would have permanent and occasional compositions, that you would have advisory bodies, that you would have professional bodies, what did you actually do with all of this together? You've created a solid organization, a place where you'll be able to hire some people who will be employed here, and the key question is whether what the firefighters so far seem to be doing well, will they do better? No, he's gonna do the same thing as he's just gonna cost us more. And what we had was good is we're going to very simply one move of feathers, or here there's not going to be a movement of feathers, but there's going to be a vote on Friday in ten days, all of what we've created for years, and you're going to have to give up because you decided to do something better, and then it's going to be a theme there in about ten years when it comes, I'm not going to say from where to where, and when it's concluded that something doesn't work, then we're going to get involved, and we're going to get back to the old ones, but why, except that some people get hired, I don't see any reason. Thank you very much. Of course we at the Voice Club won't support this, and we'll make a suggestion that this law goes to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178269	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI Club, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178270	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. After all these openings, I'll say a debate from clubs on the side of above all opposition, you might be surprised by my position, i.e. which I will present on behalf of the IDS Club because we are in a position to support this law for the reasons that every law that promotes and improves the existing one means a law which in this case will allow for greater operationality and more efficiency in carrying out fire-fighting and in order to protect against fires, ensure the safety of citizens as well as the planning of surveillance and prevention of fires. We will also support this law for the reasons why they point out that we in Istria, in Istria County have for years an effective system of fire that is primarily the result of successful cooperation between cities, municipalities and counties. And that's why I'm going to say that in Istria, the fire department is going to function as it has so far been working with the old law, and it's also going to work in the future with a new law just because it exists, I'm going to say this high awareness of which the mayors, the mayors and the mayors are counting on the very organisation of fire and above all respecting the legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia. What is proposed by the new law stems precisely from insufficientness, I will say cooperation or non-compliance with existing certain rules. And the ministry, at least that's how we realized it trying to get through the introduction of the network and through this vertical command line to establish I'm going to say more order because fire is certainly the basic force of the civil protection system. And today is much more than just a cease-fire. In fact, a large number of events are being addressed that threaten people and property from technical and traffic accidents and other accidents to various natural disasters which unfortunately are increasing today. Over the past 20 years, the problem in the fire department that felt both at levels, cities and municipalities was dualism at the state level. Firefighters are joined in Croatia's fire community, which is an association and the activity of fire at the head with the main fire commander of the Republic of Croatia is located in the state body. This was the main problem because in 20 years, most of the sublegal acts needed to operate at the level of the county, towns and municipalities. This law finally discusses this and ensures a more efficient and operational operation of firefighting in the Republic of Croatia at all levels in municipalities, cities and counties through public fire departments. We welcome the fact that fire organizations will also have an impact on the operation of the Central State Office through the envisaged bodies because exactly the fire departments know the situation on the ground best, as well as the problems that firefighters face. We believe that it is positive that this law defines responsible persons at all levels of the fire system from the state, from state through county to local level in the event of the need for interventions, as well as preventive fire protection measures, providing technical assistance in environmental and other accidents as well as other dangerous situations. Let us remember that the 1999 law, which in its own time represented a shift towards decentralisation of the system, did not follow the adequate support of the state during this initial period because cities and municipalities and counties were given new powers and obligations and the state of fire that we had taken over and which we found at that time was devastating, old vehicles, exhausted equipment, a bad organisation. And right now, we can say that, first of all, because of the effort, I stress some units of local self-government as well as the county's state of fire is still improving. Now, those who didn't do it by the new law are trying to force them in some way and what we don't support is precisely what the colleague mentioned that the state budget covers the costs of forming new public fire departments for those who haven't formed them, for the new DVDs, and we think that's exactly it's incorrect and unfair for those who have properly separated and founded fire at the highest level in 20 years. Another thing that is positive and where it will provide firemen with a minimum standard is that the state defines minimum coefficients and allows local self-government units to further stimulate and increase the standard for firefighters through the base in some way. So it's a dangerous activity in which these people are very often risking their health and life, so it was necessary to define that minimum of their rights. The law leaves this particular flexibility that, through collective bargaining as well as collective agreements, firefighters also exercise greater material rights because we must be aware that there are different conditions in which firefighters operate. Since coastal firemen and continents are not located in the same geographical area and are therefore faced with various disasters. It is good that the applicant has taken local advice into account, so it is therefore an article. 110. Ensuring representative bodies of local units to be able to make a decision to introduce or increase communal compensation for the financing of fire departments and voluntary fire departments, to finance the regular activities of public fire departments and voluntary fire departments. I hope that this is also in line with the Ministry of Economy and that we can expect amendments to the Law on the Communist Economy that will go in the direction so that these two laws are not in collegiate. It is a quality proposal because otherwise the burden would be transferred to the general tax revenues of cities and municipalities which the Government has consistently reduced, which would lead to the functioning of public fire departments and, on the other hand, the financing of kindergartens, the social needs of citizens, primary education and culture. But there is one problem here that exactly the budgets where these funds are provided are by the city and municipal councils and by the infringement provisions you have provided that in the event of non-acceptance and non-acceptance of financial resources, the mayor should be punished. I think we should think about it and make it right. Finally, I will still express my satisfaction that this proposed law will improve the fire system in Croatia because it was certainly good but in order to round the whole, we also expect that a new proposal, a proposal for a new Civil Protection System Act, will be sent to the Assembly. I remind you that according to constitutional provisions, the fire system and civil protection are in the control of local self-government and therefore we expect that in the new Civil Protection System Act and the provisions of the Constitution are respected and that the decentralisation of civil protection systems is carried out consistently. And in the end, I will repeat once again that with us in the Istrian County, fire is still functioning today under the existing law and that it will certainly work in the future with a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178271	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178272	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I'll try to be as brief as possible, as concisely as possible. I think that the goal must be equal to all of us, which is an efficient and economic system that has the task of increasing the safety of our citizens, all those who are living in our area, because we know in fact that the fire department in Croatia today is one of the most organised voluntary associations or activities that they perform especially when we talk about DVDs and the way and the fire communities and the way they operate. So there is no more massive, organised and let's say and even say, perhaps a better association in such proportions at Croatian level. This is all but what is proposed here and the establishment of a fire network and certain conditions, the way and structure of the operation of the new central state office, or the Croatian Fire Department, must aim to do so. I'll just briefly look back at the amendment one on behalf of the club, one on my behalf to hand over, namely the amendment is actually on Article. 110th, which speaks of the financing of the fire system. It is planned that the representative body of the municipality, the city and the city of Zagreb can make a decision to introduce or increase the municipal compensation for the financing of the fire department to finance the regular activities of public and voluntary companies. And then says the height of the municipal fee should be aligned with the requirement, etc., namely, the amendment goes to delete these items for one single and clear reason, precisely because those items are actually not possible, those items are contrary to the provisions of Art. Article 2 The Law on the municipal economy since this article states that the communal revenue from the budget of units of local self-government used for the financing, maintenance and construction of municipal infrastructure and may also be used for the financing, construction and maintenance of pre-school, school, health, social, public buildings of sports and cultural purposes and the improvement of energy efficiency of buildings owned by a unit of local self-government if this does not prejudice the possibility of maintaining and building a municipal infrastructure. It is a basic dedicated income, communal compensation, maintenance and construction of municipal infrastructure plus these exceptions, in these exceptions in law nowhere mentions fire and since, it means it is very clear what can and cannot be done, so we believe that the Fire Department Act can not only not but can not actually enter the matter which is within the jurisdiction of the Law on the Community Economy which is like a lex specialis. So we have two laws in college, especially one that is lex specialis, so we propose that the amendment delete those provisions by having them immediately in the next article. 111, taking into account that there is a very well-resolved basis for the calculation of funds from its own budget as well as on which to identify the needs of the Chief Fire Commander, with the prior consent of the Minister in charge of the business of finance, and that the amount of a certain municipality or county or city will be allocated for that basis. So it says even though the funds that cities, municipalities and counties are not from this article, which are not enough to carry out fire and fire activities in accordance with the plan, fire plan and fire protection plan, the representative body must increase the amount of financial resources by decision. So it's absolutely stated, there's no need to go into cohesion then with another law, especially which is lex specialis and that non-purpose or intended means are being spent in an unintended way, especially not by other law which I think is the case here. Furthermore, what I have placed in the replica, also an amendment, is primarily not a clear part of the qualification set out in Article 51. The person who is admitted to the workplace of a professional fireman must meet the following conditions for establishing a working relationship and I am told that he has acquired a qualification at levels 4.1, 4.2. that is a three-year or four-year high school or acquired a qualification of fire direction, which is not clear to me exactly what it means here. Does that mean that it's not a high school but some evening school or a qualification or course is that we're already in the previous law legal solution is that if you don't have a high school fire school, you can have a high school, but you have to pass so on within two years. an expert fire test. Where's he gone now? Is that supposed to be enough to have a primary school, and that expert exam, is that what that means, or are we going back to the ones that I always object to with all the cops and guards? Here's what I'd like to ask you to determine. I'm not writing an amendment to that. But what I want and what I have written is an amendment that I don't understand is at paragraphs 6 and 8, so we understand each other now I've heard here that the Chief Fire Commander may have a smaller qualification that's not true. It says right here that for county fire commanders, the same goes for them. But what I don't understand is when we talk about a three-year college, then pre-graduate university studies and an integrated pre-graduate university study have been left out. So the person who has a professional study for three years can or a short professional study, I don't know what that means, I haven't met that definition yet, but I took it over and I left it in the amendment, a short professional study, probably a professional study of two years if we can call it that, I don't believe it's an official name, but I also left it a professional study of three years. So it turns out when you're supposed to have high school equipment, then you need how pre-graduate university and graduate university means 3+2 or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university, although integrated by this understanding there's no undergraduate, but they're in total duration, but I've left it in the amendment, because I really can't get to the good in such a short time. But I'm asking you to change my amendment, too, because I believe that integrated studies don't have 3+2 but they're integrated, which means they're united, so they have 5, there's not that bologna section if it's integrated, and here it says. I don't think there's even an integrated undergraduate, but I'm allowing myself to be wrong, so I left it behind. But I don't understand why we're then throwing out that pre-graduate university as a condition for someone to have three-year-old high gear. In paragraph 6 and paragraph 8, which speaks of county fire commanders who are practically prescribing everything. So if you're tall, it takes you 10 years, if you have a higher age, it takes you 15 years of experience, I can understand that. But I can't understand why pre-graduate university studies that last for three years were kicked out, I don't understand, and I don't understand this brief professional study. Now would be the biggest problem if we really chose our chief fire chief who has a short expert study, then maybe you could figure it out, but I won't be mean. So my amendment goes in that section to introduce qualifications in pre-graduate university studies and 15 years of experience so that for some reason not to unfairly leave them out, and I can't figure out from this proposal why a three-year professional and can't be a three-year graduate. It's two amendments, one in the name of the club, one in my name we'll turn over. Other than that, I think I should repeat once again that all the legal changes that go towards the goal of both efficiency and economics and better service to fire and better activity are welcomed and the HNS Club will accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178273	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the debate will be shared by counterpart Djujic and counterpart Kovac. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Katic with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, at the beginning of today again, this is a sad day for Croatian fire, a sad day and it is amazing that the Croatian Fire Community, which is one of the oldest associations in Croatia in the last 144 years of its existence, has managed to resist everything, changes in states, wars, various structures, but failed to resist HDZ. So HDZ managed to destroy Croatia's fire community and that's what needs to be said here clearly. And no name of the central state office of the Croatian Fire Department can replace what the Croatian Fire Community is today. And not to say that it is not normal for a central state office to have the name Croatian Fire Department. Secretary of State, what is it? What kind of nonsense is that, and what kind of joke is that? It is a mockery with all these firefighters who have been operating through the Croatian Fire Community system for 144 years, I must say. So I'm a 25-year-old firefighter myself, I worked as an active firefighter so I don't really talk here floscule and something someone wrote me but I'm saying some stuff from experience. I don't know how much he knows, but it doesn't matter. I also have to say, and I said today on the press, a fellow Sanader before politicians, first of all I see as a fellow firefighter. You've become a fireman, you're a colleague of Sanader's, and you're volunteering, what's most valuable to me, you've given your free time, your experience, you've got envious results. You were also the best firefighter in your mid-'80s, long before HDZ, and long before you decided to deal with politics, like me, I became a fireman when I was a kid, and I went through state competitions before the SDP and above all, and this is one extra-biased question, and therefore I can't believe that you allowed yourself to go into history as the last president of the Croatian Fire Department, here, I know that you, I can't ask you questions, nor do you owe me an answer, but since in the name of the HDZ Club you speak to me, I would really like you to tell me what drove you to do, which is why it is so. So when I talk to your colleagues in the office, a lot of your colleagues from HDZ, mayors, captains, and even volunteer firefighters aren't happy with this bill, which is why I'm interested in how it happened, so let's not kid myself, the fire system in the Republic of Croatia isn't ideal, there's a lot of problems, so we're all aware of that, and for years it's been said that the changes are necessary and these changes have been approached to make it all better. One of the main reasons was to connect the Chief Fire Commander and the Croatian Fire Department because this system, which is now current under the laws, so it is not good, I will agree that it is not good and it needs changes and must be connected by the Chief Fire Commander as chief operative and the Croatian Fire Department as one roof body of Croatian firefighters, it is not at all controversial, and what have we done now? We are now, instead of inserting the chief fire commander and joining the Croatian Fire Department, we have pushed the Croatian Fire Department into the chief fire commander. The second thing, the Croatian Fire Community exists under the Law on Associations, now we are shutting down the roof organization of the Croatian Fire Community and it is not true that we are not shutting down because in Art. The 125th clearly states that with 1.1.2020. The Croatian Fire Department is shutting down, it says in this bill, and we have left the county fire communities, DVDs and everything that has done to date to the Croatian Fire Community, at the levels below, in which they will now be joined, which is their roof organisation under which they can act in the future, it no longer exists, so this is what we have, which you have screwed up in this proposal and you have done one, and a chaos that is completely amazing to me and that degrades volunteer firefighters, so it is not true that the position of volunteers in this bill improves, not exactly the opposite, even some of the provisions that introduces penalties for volunteers and DVD commanders if, if, when they increase in financial amount or for volunteers who do not go to interventions, they destimulate volunteering fire in Croatia, they will be more likely to be fine. I expected this proposal that voluntary firefighters would be rewarded, that it would be resolved how they can get out of their jobs without having a problem with their employer, that they would be stimulated in such a way that in some European countries, I don't know, they might be free of supplemental health care, that they would have some kind of relief in insurance, in the case of communal compensation, there is a situation where voluntary firepower could be stimulated in the Republic of Croatia. What did you do? You've done the destimulation. Another big problem that has been the reason for amending the law is the problem of funding, so for years the firefighters have been dissatisfied with how the fire support system in the Republic of Croatia works. So, the state is about someone's mother, someone's stepmom. Five or six years ago. When I spoke to some of my fellow firefighters who today, fortunately they say, by the time they retired, say they were the best in the '90s when they were under the MUP, that they were the best, then the '99s made this system, and what do we have now? I will give you an example of my county, islands, Lošinj island, Lošinj island, I have the correct information not to say something wrong, so the island of Lošinj and the island of Krk have JVP and they get 3 million kuna per year from the state for their own, for their actions, and island Cres and island Rab get zero from the state. The fire burns equally on Rab and Lošinj and on Krk and on Brač and on Hvar and everywhere, but it is not extinguished by firefighters under the same conditions on all these islands and it is not funded by firefighters under the same conditions on all these islands and there is a variety of RH, we have a bunch of different examples, but they all show that this system is not good and this is what this law was meant to solve, and it does not solve, what have you done in this law? You've also compromised this funding that we've had, so this percentage that goes to 5, so it collapses by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by the rise of the budget is taken from the general budget of the city or the municipality, and the funds only go from the real budget on the basis of the previous year, so what can happen? It can be a realistic budget of a city or a municipality of 10 million kuna and it is real and out of that percentage they can get money DVD and enter into some European project city and go budget to 50-60 million kuna and there the budget, the percentage decreases and they get less money, so cities and municipalities today have huge budgets, bigger than real ones, than those real budgets due to projects, because of European funds, and that's good, but it's not a good calculation and the way you've proposed funding in this law. The second thing, pushing through the night on speed, over the knee, with a brief public debate, after an emergency procedure, a week without, before the constitutional break of the HS session tells me that something is wrong here, so it's not good, so a year we've been talking about this, you've done it again, the law has 80 pages, the public has to know and has 150 pages of objections mostly from firemen who nobody has heard, who no one has heard, who no one has called the Croatian Fire Department to say what they think about this law there, and that there, if they need a third-quarter majority of the decision to shut down the fire department, and not by the decree of the political secretary HDZ, it's not so good, and that's why this law doesn't work, and it doesn't go to Croatian firefighters hands and some things that may be here and good and that will improve some of the measures that you're going to do so. The SDP Club will propose a conclusion that this law is implemented in the second reading, that we delay the adoption of this law and that it is not true that if this law is not passed the second week that the world will stop next year, that the fire department in Croatia will cease to function and that there will be a threat to the citizens as you have said, as you said in your opening, opening statement. I still think the system will become more complicated if we just pass this law in this form. And that is why we appeal to you to postpone it and push it into another reading and to discuss this as God commands what is said. There's a lot more, I could talk about this maybe all day. I made a deal with my colleague Kovac that he would continue, so I'm going to make some more points in my individual debate. And mostly what I want to say is this law is not good, give up on it and I'm sorry to put out one of the oldest institutions in the country and the old fire department says "Fire out your brother," I'm here ordering fire to shut down the Croatian Fire Department. Let's go save it. Comrade Sanader, you still have a chance to give up on this, your colleagues have been calling me all day, the pressure is all day, let's tell the president to call us, we haven't had a chance to tell the assembly. Here I really hope that, that I'm not so rude if I ask you to, on behalf of the club, even though you're speaking in HDZ, you might refer to some of this stuff, and I'll say more things in detail in my articles, in my individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178275	Comrade Kovac, here you go. Resume the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178276	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so here's more or less I agree with everything my colleague Djujic said, I would refer to a few of your presentations as proposals. Before that, the first thing was to question the functioning of the fire system if this law was not passed, which is not true. I think you know very well, and especially my colleague Sanader, who's been a longtime firefighter and I appreciate as a fellow firefighter because I've been a member of a voluntary fire department for over 15 years, I even have an act in that fire department. It's not true because that system works very well. I can tell you not only in the fire protection, but in the defense of the flood. At our place in Međimurje where we were bound by two rivers, the first to come out when the Mura River was poured out were firefighters. If it hadn't been for the voluntary fire company of some municipality and even the town center would have been flooded. It means that the system works very well, and I don't know why my colleague Sanader, who is currently president of the Croatian Fire Department, didn't go to the assembly, according to the statutes of the Fire Community, the community of associations founded since 1876, and Article 125, as you heard, says that it will be abolished by this law. Also, at the City Association, you said you talked to the mayors, which is not true. The law was hiding, unfortunately there's even a story going between firefighters that they were working in a tavern in Zadar, that there was a law, not a ministry, you weren't doing it. The assessment, the association of cities, has brought to work the assessment of the constitutionality of the law, we have reached a conclusion on the association of cities, cities of the association where members are not only the mayors of the SDP but also the mayors of the HDZ. We made that decision unanimously in Sibenik a few days ago. So we're going to make a decision on constitutionality. You said the DVD was solved, it's not true, it's not solved, the rest is the same as before. So nothing was solved, you only added that they had certain rights if something happened to them at the intervention, which is commendable, it had to be before, but here's a better time than ever. Funding from the budget, the funds remained the same here's the State budget for the 2020 projection for '21,'22. Division is 039, Chapter 05 Croatian Fire Department, you speak 800 million here finely writes additional funds for direct.../incomprehensible/... fire department 231 million kuna. I am interested, so these funds have not increased in projections since '21, '22, and in the meantime, a new 8 public fire departments have been established here in Dalmatia. Because we in Međimurje and northern Croatia care for voluntary fire companies, we have over 30, three counties in the north have over 30,000 voluntary firemen. So volunteers, we're not the kind of people in Dalmatia that firemen pay. You only talked about mercenaries. You didn't mention volunteer firefighters anywhere. The name alone speaks a voluntary fire company. You didn't mention him. I'd specifically like you to answer some questions, I'll stay in my debate, so here's the deal. How can the President run a central state office in the final provisions? What is the Presidency of the Croatian Fire Department as an advisory body and who forms it, Article 6? How will the employees of the current Croatian Fire Department become civil servants as an association, based on what you explain to me, so shouldn't a public tender be called? There's a law on civil servants if I'm not mistaken. Who's going to provide the severance money to retire? What about the firemen who don't pass the medical examination? Who will provide 13% of the allowance from regular work, what about professional illnesses, what about seasonal firefighters and their fees and why there are no untaxable deductions? Are we going to destroy voluntary fire companies because interested people, volunteers, unfortunately, are getting smaller and what measures have you taken to encourage younger ones to be volunteer firefighters? You only talk about professionals all the time, the pure example is the DVD Kaštel, where Mr. Sanader is president, they are the DVD Kaštel d.o.o., a society with limited responsibility. We don't do business out of it, we have tradition. Who will conduct the competition, and who will honor and confess and how will finance it? The SDU is quite different in funding I will continue the rest.../incomprehensible/... individually. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178277	I thank my colleague Kovac. We move on to the next debate and the name of the HDZ Representatives Club. Dear colleague Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the secretary of state with a co-worker and all my colleagues and colleagues, here in two debates it is quite gallantly thrown out unnecessarily. Obviously from people who aren't informed or consciously manipulated, and I don't believe they're being manipulated, I've never met them like that before, so I think the information people have misinformed or incorrectly. So the Croatian Fire Community Assembly, to the 4th Assembly, in the 12th month of 2017, at the Assembly in 6th month 2018, at the Croatian Fire Community Assembly in 12th month 2018 and at the Croatian Fire Community Assembly in May 2019, discussed and reached their conclusion and attitude to transform the Croatian Fire Community. What you are trying to portray as the shutting down of the Croatian Fire Community, as the destruction of 146 years of tradition of the Croatian Fire Department, respected colleagues are incorrect things and it is not correct to manipulate the public in such a way because you are obviously uninformed. And if you think so, it is your right to be normal but then take the minutes from the 4 last Assembly of the Croatian Fire Department and to a clear definition of the Croatian Fire Community Assembly on the intention to transform the Croatian Fire Department. Because we are just aware of the problems of the operation of the Croatian Fire Community as registered under the Associations Act we are aware of how much we have been prevented from working and the possibilities of Croatian fire department. Since 1993, when it was passed in an independent Croatian state, the first Fire Department, since then, we have failed to amend any sublegal act. Why? Just because of what the secretary of state was talking about, which is at the state level of two heads, one was the Croatian Fire Department and the other was the competent fire department that changed over the period of '93. until 2019, it was at the Ministry of the Interior, then at the Ministry of Interior, then at the State Department for Protection and Rescue, meaning always in some body that was... Fire department. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now, i.e. 2 years as many Croatian firefighters and representatives of the Croatian Fire Department and the Command Office are negotiating with the Ministry of the Interior. I am taking this opportunity to thank both the Minister and the Secretary of State and all the people of the Ministry who have shown exceptional understanding and made with the commanders and presidents of the Croatian Fire Department, meaning all of the fire departments, the county, all 20 plus the City of Zagreb, hundreds of meetings in these 2 years in order to find the best solution for Croatia's fire community. And on a proposal from the firefighters, it's agreed that we get practically our central state office, our little ministry, because it's the best way that firefighters will solve their problems. We had the possibility after the collapse of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue or to be in the MUP or part of civil protection or to have our central state office. We have experience from the MUP, we have experience from the State Department for Protection and Rescue when the chief fire commander was the fifth person. For example. Here is the current chief fire chief, Mr. Tucakovic, in the SDP government, director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, who did not allow him to go to the State Fire Department. The State Fire Commander didn't even have a vehicle available for 24 hours, but when the fire broke out, he had to go and ask the director to give him a vehicle so he could go to the fire. Is that a system that works? You know that well. And he knows and it is inevitable that there have been a lot of experiments with fire and with the Croatian Fire Department and that this is the best model accepted by Croatian firefighters, not Ante Sanader, I've been in the fire department for too long and I've been in politics too long to allow anyone's opinion, mine or anyone else to be imposed. So this is the attitude, and you can check, just check with the relevant sources. You said today that your community wasn't involved at all, the fire department of the Primorje-Gorski County. The Primorje-Gorski County Fire Community participated in 5 co-ordinations only this year. So you write 2nd in Dubrovnik, 3.6th in Supetar, 18.6th in Cavat, 13.8th in Zadar and 20th in Pula. And all five co-ordinations this year have been discussed exclusively by the Fire Department and the Fire Department Act is in line. So this informant of yours obviously isn't active in the fire department or he doesn't respect the fire department or him, but you have to work it out in your house, in your fire community. Since these communities of the coastal world had always had communities, Mr. Čakovec knows that we were at his place at the co-ordination of continental Croatia that we discussed the Fire Department there, that we talked about all this there and that this coordination accepted it, that after that co-ordination in Čakovec was co-ordination in Varazdin also on the proposal of the chairman of the Međimurje County Fire Community a month before this law went to the ministry because this law proposed by the Croatian Fire Department, it was not proposed by the Ministry. The Ministry was just our logistics and I say that's why I thanked them for helping us. So we decided firmly that we would no longer go under anyone but to ask this government to give the fire department independence and the fire department has achieved its independence through this way that we have entered and become the Central State Office. Yeah, we shut down the presidential system because we think it's unnecessary. Why? Because when there was a fire in the Kornati he died and only the commander went to prison, no president was killed, but Commander Slavica of the Sibenik-Knin County, the county commander. And that was why it was a firm decision by the Croatian Fire Department and all its bodies to go to the command system. And that's why it was introduced, it could have been the Secretary of State and the President of the Croatian Fire Department, but we weren't up to it, but we're operating... And that's why the chief fire chief is the secretary of state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The current bodies also remain the presidency, in particular the National Council for the Elimination and Prevention of Fires, which has gained new significance and through it by the county fire department and means the lower base gets its breakthrough up and participates in the work of this central state office. We managed not to put politicians in general practice or some people who had nothing to do with fire, we chose to have the most professional people there, that the chief fire commander had his conditions, that he had 10 years of experience at the command functions of the state or county level or 15 years of experience and higher professional training. So these are the possibilities for the most professional people with the greatest experience in the command system to be these chief fire chiefs, or secretary of state. We've put three goals here, it's this unique chain of command and funding. We've imported the system in command, so the mayors are complaining, regardless of whether you're HDZ or SDP, this is a system, this is a solid organization in the ranks of the military and police. It will be funded by whoever has funded it so far, but the system must be solid, unique and binding. We've had a situation so far, the state pays all the professional fire departments, no city has even 30% of the assets for the professional units, so the state is most of the funds for the public fire departments. And we had a situation where the chief fire chief gave orders to a public fire department in a city, and he says he can't because he was divided into state, county and local. We're a solid system and we have to be unique, we can't stand to play each other's game and that's why consent was introduced. The mayors have rebelled as to why consent is sought, consent is required that the profession has its own word, and not some mayor can. We've got situations I'm not going to get them here right now, but I'm going to tell them tomorrow if there's time and need where they tried to put unprofessional people, people who don't have any conditions, they've been pushing them to the positions of the commander of the public fire departments. This is the function of this agreement to respect the profession there and to keep the professional people at the head of the public fire departments and to have the system tied up according to the complete vertical. So the commander-in-chief gives consent to the county commander, the county gives consent to the city's municipal unit, this one gives consent to the commander of the public unit, and so we firmly imported the command system. We built a unique fire school. So far there have been two schools, the school in Zagreb did not want to organise training in Rijeka, Split, Osijek, we have now created a unique fire school. There were two schools, we turned it into a unique fire school with an obligation to care and train people throughout the Republic of Croatia and what we now have in Rijeka and Split and Osijek to ally it into a unique fire school as other countries do. We've regulated the question of the fire museum, we've established a fire network, we've managed to fund the fire department. That's the third pillar or third goal we put through this law, and what does that mean? The biggest injustice was made after 2000, in 2003 when decentralisation was not accepted complete when the parliament made a decision or government to introduce minimum financial standards and did not go into decentralisation of separation from state resources. We had 39 units when it came out of the D.O.P. in 2000, today we have 71 units. All the villages began to seek to establish a public fire force because they said if they set up a public fire unit, the state would pay me if I didn't start anything. That's why we introduced the fire grid system. What does he mean? It's a system like an emergency system. We have a situation... in Split, for example. Split was once an area, today's town of Split, today's town of Solin, the town of Kaštela, Podstrana, Solta now has 100 firefighters who the state pays and these firefighters are not obliged to go to Solt, either to Solin, or to Kaštela, and they started out of the unique Split municipality and it is an unsustainable situation, and so it is in all other areas. That's why we introduced a fire network system where we said that the chief fire commander, based on the fire plan, would propose to finance the entire fire department system, not to be privileged, that 70 of them in the state would be paid by the state, and all the other cities and municipalities would pay themselves. Through the central state office, Croatia's new fire community we compete for eu funds, so we're looking for our measure and we got the consent of the Ministry of Regional Development, we could never do it as an association because we had the situation of the association. We saw this last competition for building firehouses where they competed together with farmers, kindergartens, parks to build a firehouse, now we got our own measure of financing only the best experience of how the Poles, Czechs, Slovaks pulled huge funds. It opens up this new form of insurance. Voluntary firefighters, it's funny here a lady who has no idea about firepower, I'm sorry and sad to say so, but she's good at showing her face. Some people who don't have anything to do with it so they say now it's all going to fall apart, let's not touch what works, now some people and such nonsense are going to be hired, but well that's their right. We gave volunteer firefighters everything that could be given as much as possible and everything that they have experience in European countries, Austria and Germany have no better than what we have given the firefighters at the moment. Teached by the negative experience of Frana Lučić from Kornati, we have also addressed such issues of firemen's injury. We have introduced a fire inspection into the fire system to give the chief fire commander and the county commander tools so that they can work and monitor the system and help them work, informing the fire system through the use of computer applications, introducing new software. The resources of Croatian forests, we received 20% of the minimum 20% of the general useful forest functions that will be allocated to fire. And the law provides for a unique system of communication in the fire department, so we now have a fire system radio, radio... a link that has been anywhere and whatever, through the Sender and the connection is a single fire system. So, in conclusion, this is no experiment, it's not a shut-down, it's a better way to organize, and the only one that is possible at this moment, God forbid the associations get that kind of importance, that they get that kind of opportunity in our society, so that the Croatian Fire Community will one day return to that model even though I think this model is far better than the model of associations and the model of operation that we have, which we have so far. Here's how much for now, so I'll talk to you when.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178279	Thank you. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Ana-Marija Petin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178280	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. This new legislative solution should aim at the uniqueness of the entire fire system, and at preventing its smooth development in terms of normative regulation, proposing state-level documents, improving the working legal system of all firefighters, their more efficient training and training, quality inspection of fire departments, and at the end of the better withdrawal of funds from EU funds. Although we agree that this legislative proposal offers a solution to most of the above, we still believe that more attention should be given to DVDs in this new legislative proposal. Based on organised fire protection in the Republic of Croatia, the centuries-long tradition of opposing fire and other elemental disasters was DVDs that were organised over 100 years in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. DVDs have a special place not only because of the organized opposition to the fire but also because of the invaluable role they have played through the history of the Republic of Croatia, which they still have today, especially in rural areas that sustain both social and cultural life in small areas, which maintain various sports and other activities, which bring together young people, and from the earliest days instill in them a sense of humanity, sacrifice, and a willingness to help their neighbors. We in the HSS believe that the law should give greater attention to the DVDs and the voluntary firefighters. This bill is mostly based on professionalism, but we have to say that not all JVPs with dozens of professional firefighters are based on exactly volunteer firefighters and DVDs. We expected more funding from this law to go right through the state budget, at least in terms of equipment, because not all units of local self-government can allocate funds to buy fire tanks, invulnerable vehicles, and other equipment that is needed by DVDs for various interventions. Here I refer to the environments that have not formed the JVP, but as I said, their fire protection is based on DVDs that are financed through the budget of local self-government. These funds are often insufficient to buy such large and important equipment, we know it from personal experience because trucks, fire trucks, tanks that are divided through the Ministry of Economy, which are divided by fire communities, simply do not move into the ownership of DVDs but remain owned by ministries and as such can be deployed as needed in any area of the Republic of Croatia. Then, in that case, the DVDs remain without the necessary equipment, and since the budgets of the local self-government unit are small in small municipalities, they simply do not have the opportunity to buy trucks that are, are new and amounting to over 2 million kunas, but are being managed, so for several years they buy secondhand trucks and secondhand equipment. I think it's in everyone's interest that both the JVP and the DVDs are equipped because there are volunteers who risk their lives to save our lives and to preserve our assets and what they necessarily have, and that's the equipment, in order for their lives to be preserved, we certainly have to provide that, if we can't get through the budgets of the local self-government units, then we have to go through the state budget. Likewise, when we talk about the funds of units of local self-government, as I have already said, local self-government is obliged to stand out for fire in its area, and on the other hand they are placed in a subordinate position in the case of the confirmation of competent commanders or the assembly of a fire department managed by a fire department in one area. I'd like to continue to say that the law mentions itself, and that's exactly what we're talking about. 42. which honestly does not make it very clear to me why, which is that DVDs can carry out other economic, catering or social activities other than fire-fighting activities, and also have permanent or occasional employees to carry out these activities, from which these employees will be financed. It is defined if such an activity brings profit that it must be invested in the development of firefighting, but it is not defined what if this profit is not sufficient to finance and cover the costs precisely for the performance of these activities, who will then bear that cost and from what means will be financed precisely by these activities? I don't think this bill should hold that possibility for DVDs, DVDs and volunteer firefighters to take seriously because they're doing exactly the work that we've mentioned, which I've mentioned, and I don't think they're based on our villages to deal with catering rather than doing a very serious job and keeping our lives and our property safe. On the one hand, you have improved this law some of the things I mentioned at the outset, but we think that it is necessary to give even greater importance to voluntary fire companies, even though you have improved the position of volunteers through health care, through certain benefits. On the other hand, you prescribe in that same law penalties for these same volunteers unless they respond to a call for intervention or justify their arrival within 24 hours. I don't think that this should stand in the law, given that there are a lot of people working in the field today, who are not able to report or even get a message that there has been some intervention and that they should certainly not bear any punishment. I think voluntary fire companies and volunteer firefighters should be placed in a special category and rewarded for their sacrifice. And for that very reason and for all that I have stated, we in the HSS believe that this law should still go into second reading in order for these particular remarks to be respected, to make the law work and to get a much better solution, and to the satisfaction of, as first of all, our firefighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178281	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Martin Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178282	Dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I believe this law is a consequence of what has to be done and passed, but it has been accelerated by its adoption from the simple exceptional circumstances that have occurred in recent years. First of all, I mean the extraordinary circumstances that were in the Split-Dalmatia County and the fact that they died in most volunteer firemen in Kornati. It's just amazing that someone could say it was a good system, so here it is, it shouldn't have changed, it sounds amazing. Croatian firefighters, whether they are public or those in the majority of volunteering, put out fire and operate with machines, equipment and tanks that are often 50 years old. It's just not sustainable and it just can't be that way. Therefore, I think it is necessary to develop a minimum standard of equipment as it is in many countries, and that some machines that come out, i.e. work tanks and navigable vehicles that come to the scene are in themselves a danger, and cannot possibly serve such extraordinary circumstances. The safety of people is the primary element in every regulated and civilized country, so in peace, firefighters are definitely one element that needs to be arranged and improved. You said that, which is fine, you were communicating with the Association of Cities and the community of municipalities, it's true, but it's also true that all of our suggestions are not, I can even say, even considered. We have a situation today that funds from the generalized functions of the forest under the Department of Agriculture rule have taken a step back and there has been a new injustice in a way that has been centralized to redistribute these funds and obviously someone is smarter where someone needs something than those who need it. So I'm asking you warmly when this is shared by national means, it's not shared, it's all of us, to be included in that redistribution and these norms and the rules by which it's going to be distributed, that it's certainly not a discretionary assessment of a group or God forbid some individuals. With this in mind, I believe that a single injustice has been righted here against voluntary firefighters, i.e. societies, because it is a matter of time before whether through the state system, whether public fire departments privileged through the MUP system, and that means certain areas, and further contributed to the demographic discharge of rural Croatia, which should definitely be different. I keep the status of volunteer firefighters that, especially where the dangers of fires are exposed, it's a coastal part, mostly Dalmatia, we have a situation that in the summer months when we need to have volunteer firefighters that they do some more useful jobs for themselves, better paid, so it's very difficult to engage them in these noble efforts. With that in mind, I'm saying that somehow it should be regulated so that, for example, It was and was one of our suggestions is having some kind of monthly compensation for it, and then certainly with some compensation comes responsibility and the need to report to the local commander, possibly going to the field or outside of his place of residence or some increased work, so that it can be known because often there is a fire, you rely on these voluntary firefighters, and they are not. There's another anomaly, we'll budget either national, or locally pay for fire injuries, etc. The assumption that your injury will be as little as possible is the training of firemen and professional and these volunteers. I often, let it be on my soul, this one I see and the people who come out on the spot that here are a little bit like us here a little bit more fat, etc. And they can't handle the equipment or be skilled, so there's a lot of hours of work when this one doesn't do anything, so there's a lot of training to do. On what I want to put forward, I think that part of society or those entities that contribute and produce fire hazards that they should step up and pay, participate in achieving this fire standard, that is, this equipment. In the first row, I believe that electricity lines are the ones that often, often cause fires, those who conduct it in Croatia are the installation of HEP, and for only one reason we have lived in a rigid system in which we have a monopoly, etc., and they do nothing to prevent it. They are also smokers, millions of tourists or overnight stays on the Croatian coast, I hold that we are here everywhere we are quite prominent by the size of the tax, but according to the tourist tax we are not exactly that high compared to other countries in the environment, so I hold that part should be set aside to equip the firefighters. And so I continue to believe that this railroad also contributes to the increased potential fire, refineries, fireplace owners and all those who do so. So we need to create a sustainable system that, which will pay for those who do, and at the same time provide equipment that is of quality and that will change the moment it is spent. The communal compensation is definitely not possible, it is not possible under the Law on the municipal economy, and it is not possible because of the fact that this is a new obligation and the need to impose higher amounts of municipal compensation, and I have to say on the basis of my own experiences that we would already have done it because our budgets are very, very, very short, but we simply can't because we would burden our citizens, especially this part when we talk about rural Croatia. With this in mind, the accent here would give this amount, or the state budget of those 800 million kunas, that we can rely on, that we can plan for the times ahead to make it easier to withdraw European funds, that it is deployed in a fair way, having experience of this so far that it has not been so, but I am reading in this law because of this correction of injustice for voluntary firefighters and public fire departments to be taken care of, and I am asking that for preventive reasons, so that it is. If this system is implemented in a proper and quality way and those laws that further regulate the safety of people and where we need to recruit new forces such as civil protection, it will be one foundation where the local population will be more easily involved. According to this key for voluntary firefighters in rural space, I think they would bring one demographic stability to that area because the fourth time and some fee that would be the reason for these people to stay in those parts and that logic would finally be centralism, whether the one at national level or the one at County to change it and to help those who need it, and when, we would all single out here. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: You are running out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178283	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear colleague of the Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178284	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague Baricevic, if I'm not mistaken, you are the president of the community association. I usually think associations of type associations are someone who, especially when it comes to this law, is someone who is a partner to the ministry who proposes the law. I think that only by your observations and all others can you aphimably improve or get as high as possible. Since you, therefore, the association itself took part or saw the law and everything else, I am interested in all these remarks, because Mr Katic said that it is impossible to accept all objections, which I can agree that is impossible, but I am interested in what the association of municipalities has indicated that it would be good to amend or install in order to have a better bill proposal, which is the competent ministry that the lawmaker and the promoter adopted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178285	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Baričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178286	My colleagues, Mr. Taritash, thank you for asking. I am the president of the Croatian Community of municipalities she is so officially called, and it is not called the Association. As for the remarks we have suggested here, I have highlighted all the remarks we have made, you are laughing, but that is a fact because here you have a monopoly on names and everything else. This one I am all those remarks that we, which we have pointed to and we have sought and requested, I have highlighted them in my individual debate and this refers to, to the fire standard, it refers to the remuneration of volunteer firefighters. This applies to firemen's training, it refers to the fire academy. And here's all these benefits that should contribute to improving the standard of firefighting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178287	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Baričević, you were a bit controversial in your debate. In this first part where you have generally praised this law, okay, I understand, given the side of the House you are sitting in, but in that second part of the debate you said what I would say, or what I would say in my debate, which is two important things. So the first thing is that all those remarks sent by the association of municipalities and cities, or by local leaders, were simply not accepted, you did not answer Mrak-Taritash fairly. Therefore, none of the comments submitted by the local leaders did not accept it. And the other important thing is that this law really goes hand in hand to public units, or professional firefighters at the heart of volunteer firefighters. And if such a bill is accepted, believe me, in the fire season on the coast, there will be very little, very few volunteer firefighters from the continent to help you put out those fires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178289	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178290	I, obviously you know better, what I wanted to say than I am, I commended what I think is better and I hold that better and I also referred to what I think should be fixed and all those remarks obviously fellow Members and you have some expectations of me to say some other things than what is the conclusion of the body of the Croatian community. As far as solidarity between firefighters is concerned, and as far as solidarity is concerned, I have no doubt about it. And when these other things are improved, and first of all, I think that these 800 million kunas are the key thing of whether they're going to be distributed fairly and if it makes sense and it's okay that the system is going to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178291	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178292	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you said, among other things, that there is now an injustice that some places do not have professional fire that you want to say that for them and for these environments, they do not separate from the state budget certain funds. Since the town of Vodice was a city that founded a public fire unit in 2011, so here's why our citizens should know, namely, we ordered a fire threat assessment, a fire protection plan, that's what we adopted on the city council. Afterwards, we made a decision on the establishment of a public fire department and directed it to the State Department for Protection and Rescue and thus established a public fire department.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178293	Thank you. Answer, colleague Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178294	Well, I don't doubt my colleagues, Juričev-Martinchev, in the process, and if that were possible, but if we continued that week, then we would multiply a large number of public fire departments, it would be an overpriced system. I believe volunteering in the fire department is important. We said that here's more than 100 years of tradition and he definitely needs to be nursed so that it still works. The fact that someone has a public fire department, has been in a privileged position because these professional firefighters equipped and paid for the Republic of Croatia while all obligations towards volunteer firefighters and voluntary fire departments mostly and most often had units of local self-government and most often in the area that is financially weak in rural space... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178295	Thank you. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178296	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you have highlighted the importance of the DVD and it is undeniable, in certain environments they are indeed a bonus and a great contribution to the JVP's work. However, what are the two most important moments in this law I think is the vertical form of command, which is particularly important in emergency situations not to waste time. And the second is really the development of this network and fairer funding because now we have a situation where certain cities that have JVPs intervene and there in those units that don't have them but these units don't participate justly enough in carrying out the costs so that the greatest burden falls on those cities that have established public fire stations which I believe will now be more justly solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178297	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Baričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178298	Dear colleagues, the intensities of this debate of mine have also been in the fact that this one injustice will be corrected. What you're saying is that the city's centers, most of the time, were county-bearing, esteeming and respecting, and that's true. However, in proportion to financial strength, I think and I am convinced and has proved that small units in the rural area of the Republic of Croatia have spent more on fire than they are potentially more powerful city centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178299	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First, at the beginning of our debate to remove this thesis that we from the SDP, me and our colleagues are making up that the Croatian Fire Department is shutting down and we are disinformation the public, I will read now, I will quote article 125 of this law that we are now discussing and which the Government has proposed on the Croatian Fire Community proposal as counterpart Sanader said earlier. Therefore, Article 125 states: ‘On the day of entry into force of this Act, the Croatian Fire Department established by the Fire Department, NN 58/93 and 87/96 which continued to work in accordance with the Fire Department Act, NN 6/99 117/01 36 and now has these changes much, ceases to work and is officially deleted from the Register of Associations of the Republic of Croatia. I may have a problem with the Croatian expression by you, maybe I have a logic problem, maybe I don't understand, but in this law it writes, stops working and disappears from the Register of Associations of the Republic of Croatia. He's not writing his own transformation, and he's going to transform into some new body. This is contrary to the Law on Associations under which this Croatian Fire Department was founded. So, the Croatian Fire Department is a roof organisation of county fire communities that then go pyramidally down towards voluntary fire companies and some others. You're with an officer. 125th, shut down HVZ. It stops working, and county and locals continue to work as associations. What are they going to team up in? What's the new system now? It's another thing. The statute of the Croatian Fire Department, a colleague of Sanader, you know it well, is still valid, for 20 days until 1.1, because then after the adoption of this law, the statutes no longer matter. He says that the three-quarters majority of the congregations must make a decision. You said yourself, you've been in politics for a long time, you've been on fire, so you're not stupid, neither me nor you. We know what the decision is. The assembly, who's in favor of shutting down, hand up, if they're in, then we shut down and decision is made. At its session that day, the Assembly made the next decision, the HVZ is being shut down. Next in the statute, it says what it brings or doesn't bring. These congregations you discussed on the transformation are not a decision to shut down, and the law makes a decision to shut down. The transformation could have been to become an association with public powers, such as the Croatian Red Cross or the Croatian Autoclub, which continues to associate and gather associations of some of their local ones down, as well as HVZ. Therefore, HDZ is shutting down HVZ. Shut down, the order to shut down has been made. Overnight in a brief public hearing. Second thing, you're out now, playing with words. You said the representatives of my county participated in coastal coordination. The HVZ Statute does not know coastal coordination. As far as I know, you correct me, perhaps I'm wrong, there are six coordinations in the statutes of the Croatian Fire Department. One of those 6 is the Istra-Primorje-Lika coordination. This coordination was not included in the consultation. The fact that the representatives are some kind of parasite, is that in the statute, is there a coastal coordination in the Statute of the HVZ, who is its representative and who is its leader? Answer me that, Comrade Sanader. The fact that the presidents of the coastal county sat somewhere and discussed something on these dates that you said, it's not in line with the HVZ statue. And these are not valid decisions. It's in the rank, I won't be like my colleague Kovac, but it's in my class sitting in some Dalmatian tavern and making a deal on some law. That's it. Another thing, if agreed, why came 150 pages, more than 700 objections from the field to this law. There are more objections than the pages of the law. 100 objections came, more than 100 remarks came from my county, the one you're saying the representatives were sitting in accordance with you this law. Why are.../incomprehensible/... and not the lame, as you said, perhaps irrelevant members of the fire department. Public fire squads from my county came forward with proposals, fire commanders, men running operational units, 90% of their objections you didn't appreciate or consider. Take it, you know what you adopted? Those nomotechnical content they would have adopted anyway. 10% objections. That's what was adopted. Nothing crucial has been accepted. So it's not true. I can tell you responsibly that the county fire community and there you're only right, that may be our problem, on your agenda your bodies never had a debate about this law. The leaders may have participated with you in some conversations or through HVZ bodies, but we down locally, local firemen in DVDs and members of the county community had the opportunity to say our remarks only when the public debate was open 20 days ago for 15 days. That's the problem and that's not good. No one said the system was good, this is where they accuse us of saying, I said right away in the introduction. We're having trouble with the fire department right now, and the system's not good, and we need to fix it. And that's why we expected these changes, so that he could fix himself and solve the crucial problems. They're not solved. In my opinion, however, even bigger problems and even greater injustice are becoming more difficult, and this law is simply not good. The second thing, here is the speech of the HDZ colleagues, they've got rid of the funding system. No, he didn't get rid of it, nothing got rid of it. You're talking about the network. Yeah, you're predicting a network. Who's bringing it? Fire Commander later. Why isn't it in the law criteria of some kind of key? Firefighters are untrustworthy of whether the network will be re-branded on some political key, as public fire departments were founded. Here, a colleague mentioned a public fire unit, the problem is on the ground because we have a situation that we have 2 fire departments public at 5 km because some local leaders who were close to politics at the top of their funding problem. Well, I know when my company was talking to Minister Shucker at the time to warn him through the HDZ channel that it was an unfair system of funding, he told them well, you'll start a public fire unit and we'll sort it out. Yeah, but that's not how you do it. We didn't want to do it because that's not the answer. So, I said an example of Krka and Losinj who get 3 million kunas from the state to function, and Rab and Cres 0. Fire burns equally on Rab and Lošinj and is extinguished by people in the same conditions, or should be extinguished under the same conditions, but they do not shut down and are not paid the same. And so on all the islands in the coast there are differences and that's not good and that's what the firefighters expected to change. It doesn't change. They said the one from the forest was funding. Yeah, why is that centralized? Why do these funds not go to those units in whose area the forests are located? You are now sending forest protection funds for general forest functions, going to Zagreb and then Zagreb will schedule how he thinks who he needs, who doesn't need it. That's not good. Well, I guess those who are on duty in these forests doing fire prevention know best what they need, what equipment they need, what they should invest in and what they should do better than someone in an office in Zagreb. The second thing, these criteria are written, so the whole Republic of Croatia is buzzing who's gonna be the next fire commander, which is why they're coming down, I'm not going to say it, you know what they're saying, so that's what we've seen since HDZ, Lex Mikulić we've seen, this is the same story, a lower criterion for the chief fire commander who's now going to name politics compared to, as far as, the lower-ranked, lower-ranked commanders have to have more conditions than the chief fire commander, so who's crazy, what's that? The second thing, the firemen were willing to expect, I already said it on behalf of the club, that they would encourage them to become volunteer firefighters who in some Western, Western countries, the model, to get rid of them, to get rid of them, to get rid of them, to get rid of them, to do some giving, yes, that, that, if I could get out of my work, and not to have a problem, here's a colleague Baricevic speaking in Dalmatia can't get out of work, I can't get out of work, because if he's a waiter in a bar or working somewhere, he won't let the boss let him go, but the state was supposed to solve it through the legal regulation, it's not and it's not usually all about these firemen, it's not enough that we can't be able to talk about this shit, but there's already in the existing law, it's a change, it's an increase in penalty, it's not good and this proposal, it's just not bad, it's just, I's not bad, I say, I don't say, it't really, it't have to say, it's good enough, it's good enough to talk, it's good enough to talk, it's, and it's good to talk, it's to talk, and it's to talk, it's not to talk, it's, it's, it's, it's good enough to get it't it's, it's, it's good, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good it's good, it's good, it's good, it's, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's This law while professional firefighters, let's say, can and therefore I don't think that's good. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178301	Comrade Djujic, I've already asked you to keep an eye on the time, so I'm asking you at the answer to cut back a little bit. We're moving on to replicas, dear colleague Ante Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178302	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I can repeat that I cannot resolve matters within your fire community, coordination is provided by the statutes, and in addition to the co-ordination of the Presidency and OTS of the Croatian Fire Department have discussed this law, have adopted this law in the presidency, if you do not respect the coordination, sits the chairman of your fire department, your commander sits in command or OTS, and your president, commander, secretary and commander of the JVP from Rijeka have been in coordination, if you do not respect them, you have chosen them then you must resolve it in your house. So no voluntary firemen's association exists, I don't know where you're coming from, no association exists, and the Croatian Fire Department has proposed this law to the MUP, and then you can't talk about the fact that firefighters, that firefighters aren't satisfied, you mention an association that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178303	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178304	You mention to me the coordination that does not exist to my colleague Sanader, the coast, there is no statute, no, there is no coordination in the statute of the Croatian Fire Community coast, there are 6 coordinations, 6 coordinations, but it is not coastal coordination, you have the coordination of Dalmatia and the coordination of the northern Adriatic with Leak, it is not that, you have now called here the same to some paritilla, but I am again telling you, I may, I respect my leaders, and perhaps I do not respect them, it is my business, but you do not respect the firemen from the field who wrote the remarks, so I am not doing this from the finger of Isis, you have a bill that we have all received, 700 remarks by firefighters, 100 from my county JVP and the local unit leaders, so look who are going to speak, I am not more likely to respect two people who are not, but are not the ones who are not the ones who are not the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who solve, who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are not the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the ones who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the ones who are the people who are the people who are the ones who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the ones who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178305	Thank you. Dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178306	Thank you very much, Vice President. Coli Đujic, you said, you read in fact the article that the community stops working, is deleted from the register of associations, that's exactly what it says, but that's how it has to write, so you're contradictory to yourself, it's exactly in accordance with the Law on Associations, so the association has to stop working, it has to be deleted from the register, so it's essential and it's substantial that there's been a transformation, but it can't be formally transformed into the body of the state administration, so the association has to shut down and delete from the register because it's become the body of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178307	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178308	My colleague Jelkovac, I don't know if I'm contradictory, but I'm glad that you supported my position, yes, that you said that the Croatian Fire Department is erasing and that it stops working, that's what we're saying, it stops working, HDZ shuts down the Croatian Fire Department after 144. and deletes it from the register of associations, that's what we said, and then we're told that no, that he's having a transformation and now, you're a lawyer, you've called on whether in the statute of the Croatian Fire Department, he should be respected, should he be respected, should the Ministry of Administration be controlled? It says that only the Croatian Fire Community Assembly can make a three-quarter majority decision to shut down the Croatian Fire Community or to stop working or to delete from the Association of Registers, it has not happened and that is what we warn here, no story of transformation is a formal decision to stop work and unbundle it, you know it well, and even in the HDZ Statute you are prescribed that somehow HDZ should work with us in the SDP. It doesn't say the law. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178309	Next replica, dear colleague Stjepan Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178310	Thank you, dear Vice President. We talk a lot about the state funding, I've been listening, I'd like you to listen, Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178311	Please kindly allow my colleague Kovac to continue with the replica, here's your colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178312	I thank you, here's fellow Djujic, and I agree with everything you've said because there's a great stranger, there's going to be a network of fire departments, who are these people who are going to get along with that network who are these employees, meaning which network is going to agree, 1.1. there are people in two weeks, now come holidays, so this is going to come on holidays, who's going to get along, when, what time, during which time it will agree, it's a total unknown, the other lot of stories the state finances, it's not true, the fire department of the town of Čakovec 4,9 million is giving the state, 3 million is giving the city with co-founders. What about these others who were later founded, do these cities have those resources? In the state budget, the funds did not increase [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] It means he's going back to cities and municipalities. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178313	Answer from fellow Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178314	Here's a thank-you colleague Kovac, shouting from his HDZ colleagues, can by law, by law, by this law we are shutting down the Croatian Fire Department, so that is an indication that so can art. 125. may, when it comes to the HDZ, a colleague of Bačić, but you have told you about this, you have said about the network, this law says that the network will be made within a year, within a year, and that is all that HDZ has done for this reason to transfer it to some new government, again to some new government, some new government will make a network and decide on the financing that some new government will raise and pay to teachers and, and, and, and, additions and some other things, this government is now pre-election going, they make a decision and that's that, but I think that should have prescribed the criteria, because it's not a good thing that one man brings again, there's a risk of it being on the political key to making a network and that's why I think it's not good, maybe it's going to be super-colander Sanader Until I see it, I don't believe it. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178315	Next replica, dear colleague Marko Velligay, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178316	I thank Vice-President HS, so here's my colleague, Djujic, you've well detected this one centralization of the fire system, especially this concerns this problem of determining one, I'm going to say, the non-transparent way of the fire network that opens up one possibility of political arbitration despite, here we've heard from fellow Sanaders who claim it's okay now and all the profession will determine. You'd still have one brief comment on, on your debate, and it concerns these penalties that are provided for, or infringement provisions that are provided for volunteer firefighters, which are actually put into the same... With professional firefighters, I just think it's a very, very bad message, because something that's voluntary, even if it's pointed out here right now that we're going towards a military and police-style firehouse, but if someone's doing it out of pure volunteerism, if he's a volunteer firefighter, it's really something that has nothing to do with sound intelligence. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178317	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178318	I agree with my colleague Vesligaj with you, once again I will repeat, the existing system is not good and nobody has said it is good and, and that it does not need to be changed, it needs to be changed, but not in this way, I am not having time in yet some articles that are proposed in this law and how much more complicated this system is, and that I am not talking about the situation where local units have to finance, they have to finance, because they are so forced, and let's say they have no influences at all through the fire councils or the administrative councils that are going to be or that they will have one representative, so someone tells you what, it's the same as with schools, cities and municipalities have to, are the founders of schools, the state is passing money for wages, they have to maintain objects, they have to build fire homes in this case, and they have no influence, but they have no influence on the appointment of fire commanders, yes, they have to be an expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178319	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178320	Thank you very much. Well, here I am, speaking this one on behalf of the club, now I'd say here probably this law that was written was her 4-5 maybe from Istria, one from my county, my colleague Sanader, her 4-5, and for example. They've set a trial for us to reward someone, for example. First we'll make the criteria for the public fire department, for this chief fire commander is a much higher expert cook, and for the lower-ranked county fire commanders is needed means higher this tall one, meaning the lower the larger the expert cook, so here we are in a tavern somewhere with prosciutto and wine, here we are going to name for example. The wish of Shoshu, the Zadar Fire Commander or what, people agree that and that's how it's gonna be, and here I am right now... come into the stable and here's the law, there's a secretary from HSLS, a new, new direction of HSLS, transparency, the public, so pull this more law and give it to another reading, I mean this is a disaster, so 700 remarks, already know who's gonna be in command, already known up front, so it's agreed in the prosciutto with the Istrian HDZ, pardon HDZ, not HDZ, but IDS, IDS, their couple agreed, sat down, named, there's no logic that the chief fire commander is sufficiently professionally prepared, and for these lower commanders of the county this high expert prepares, so say here's at least this law in the second reading, because there's no logic that the chief fire commander is sufficiently prepared, and for these senior commanders of this high-ranking state prepares, so let's say it's all agreed on the subject's to a little deal. Under the roast, the five of these laws have been ordered, you've been brought by the distinguished secretaries, so because of the legitimacy and new direction of your party, so at least go out and say you have this legitimacy we're giving this to another reading, so we'll see these 700 remarks, I think I've read them all, I've been reading them all for two days, it's mostly firemen, professional units, DVDs, local self-government, county fire departments, so I think this law is important, it's important that we agree on the Komin by various woods, e with IDS, these, those and that in advance know who is going to be appointed, and that's how we do it, we don't repeat ourselves, we have to shut down, the fire community, they claim that this isn't going to shut down, that this isn't going to be done by any other government, or by any other means, that the government that you't. Public counseling, and we see what this is, I mean it's amazing, here's if someone follows this more than, from 70% of this material are means objections, complaints from local levels to further. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is an agreed act, this is agreed on in the konabi, lex marshes, tavern, lex roast, lex lamb, lex octopus, I don't know what was agreed on the repertoire with the red wine, so it's settled here, it's seen by this series of professional arrangements that it's agreed for a person, a certain person, it's by chance, here's a loose list of facesbook, this Internet, so I saw, so maybe I'm thinking about Željko Šosha, maybe I've guessed, we'll see when it's appointed, if this is this one, when it's passed the law, when the new chief fire chief commander is appointed, maybe I'm such a match, maybe this loto game, and I'd like to ask you, here I know that if this is this one of course, when it's a fellow Sanader took part in these talks, so he might be the biggest political option, as commander, as the president of the second sentence, and I'd have not seen in the second sentence, and I's the second sentence, and I's said in the second sentence. I've never seen so many complaints, so something's been accepted nomotechnic of that nature, and everything else has been rejected, countless ambiguities, we see that these voluntary firefighters, volunteer firemen are at risk, calling dissatisfaction, it would be good, is this serious document, firefighters deserve much more serious things, firefighters are very important, the system of fire is important and hierarchy is important, the way of financing, mainly voluntary firefighters who are essentially the nucleus of these professional firefighters and they would be grateful to tribal do this much more seriously. I'd like to point out once again that I'm sorry that this was arranged in some manger, a stable where there was a little octopus, maybe some pepper, probably someone who was there, four or five from certain counties, and they agreed, they agreed on the exact name of a fireman who was going to be in command, and that's the vice president, they've set up and defined everything, because I don't see any other reason not to withdraw this, 700 complaints in 15 days in a shortened procedure, which is why, since '99, there's a valid law, there's some uncertainty, there's bad things in this existing law, but this way, this is disastrous for me, this is so much of me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178321	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178322	Col. Bulj, this law is no exception when it comes to HDZ, so they recently explained to us that pension reform is excellent, and then 750,000 people signed for a referendum against their pension reform, explained that they could not raise the coefficients of teachers and salaries, and then all teachers in the Republic were strike for a month and a few days. Now they explain to us how great this law is, and they have 750 remarks, they have more objections than there are the text of the law, than hundreds of firefighters all over the Republic of Croatia who are concerned with this, and that's what's fascinating about HDZ that they never think about it, maybe the problem is some of us, maybe not everyone in the country is crazy wherever we touch, maybe we're doing some things that aren't normal, so that's what, what's on HDZ characteristic, but I believe that in 15 days some things are going to become in the Republic of Croatia. much, much more normal. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178323	Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178324	Well, uh, the fire department doesn't deserve to go into education now, and the government did what it did and how it did to a colleague, but it's the fact that this is the agreed Fire Department and it's probably agreed, I see the manuscript, it's probably arranged on Komin somewhere in some nice shrubbery or stable like I said, and I see it mostly on this that the senior expert prepares for the chief commander, and for the lower commanders, it's probably highly professionally prepared, so here's Mr. Zeljko Sosha, although I feel a vibe, I don't know why, I kind of feel like he might be the one appointed, so if those who were at that dinner or in the stables when they were passing this law, it would be good to say whether I've guessed or not, they know on topside, and probably here we'll find out soon, but I'd ask the secretary if he was in the new government is in front, so you'd like to be in front of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178325	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Stjepan Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178326	I thank you, so I agree here is my colleague Bulj with you that the law goes ad hoc, that you should go to another reading, which is here and that it is poorly prepared what you say, as you yourself said, more than 700 remarks in this short time, that the time was longer probably there would be more remarks. What is most regrettable, the most remarks are from fellow firefighters, so those who are most concerned by this law, which is, I believe, should be the ruling warning that this law is really not right and that perhaps you should put it, however little see, study further and put it into another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178327	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178328	So I've been looking at Mr. Sanader all the time and I'm asking the secretary to give this law to another reading, not to go into an emergency procedure is I'm sorry, I'm looking at Mr. Sanader here and he's aware that this has made the law a big deal, that the law is forced, so it would be best to either withdraw this law, so that at the next session we can discuss or go to another reading, I know that it's very difficult now because it's a time stamp, but here if it's impossible for another reading it would be best to withdraw a colleague of this law and that this law is discussed in the right way, and not that it's defined but a commander who is essentially, everything is defined, shutting down the association of this fire community of Croatian, so it's all defined and only an advantage of the law with 700 objections, 700 objections in the reduced procedure and the new secretary of the ministry would have asked you once again the name of HS. I'm sorry, Ante Sanader. Pull this. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178329	Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Marko Weldergay, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178330	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I'm going to say for a start that I'm already some time of this important law debate shows one really relationship that we have with firemen. It is a late evening, when in fact fewer people follow the Croatian Parliament, when we have not even so much interest in the media and when you link it to the fact that it is an emergency procedure law, so we did not go to two readings. When you connect to this, in fact, that the public debate was shortened, then what else to conclude than that some urgency is to avoid the public's interest as much as possible, let's avoid as much as possible voluntary firefighters as possible 1,000 of them who are here, and in some of the contacts that I have with them I've never been a volunteer firefighter, but I'm often in contact with members of voluntary fire departments primarily as mayor. The expectations of the law were really high. And then when you have some big expectations, then your disappointment is much, much greater. Because if it hadn't, it wouldn't have been, if that law were so good, that it was so consistent with everyone as he announced at the beginning of the debate, the Secretary of State would of course not have come these 750 remarks primarily by voluntary fire companies. And I guess the fire department should see it as one whole, as a system, not as going to share it on professional and voluntary fire. So what does it lead to, so it's clear that these two bodies can't function without each other, but they should really be complemented. So, we had a law that was supposed to solve these problems that obviously existed in Croatian fire and some minimum was to conduct a real debate there, in which we would then include all stakeholders, primarily in the fire system, from public fire departments, so professional firefighters to the smallest DVD. And it's not said that the system is as strong as its weakest link is strong, and I don't think, of course, DVDs are the weakest link, obviously now that we're discussing the weakest link are certain people who should be wearing that system that's obviously a good part of that law and they're writing and obviously didn't get it right, primarily. They communicated, because if they did, then they would respect what she said and the local self-government that I think should still be here as a partner. They're not like that. I'm gonna say the mayors I don't know are now against the fire department, the good part of the cities, and they're giving funds above what they have, the legal obligations they have. And that's why when I look at this whole thing with our mouths full of decentralisation, we've already had this notion of what we've been doing to the end, like I don't know, I'm thinking about reform now, they're the same thing, they're all full of the mouth of reform, and we're actually doing nothing about it except certain cosmetic applications. Because if that were the case, here's the example of this law, then I'd go through a few articles that I think are very controversial. Of course, it is the first one that, of course, the public fire department has an administrative council, or according to the new now fire department, and now you have in that composition and representatives of the Croatian Fire Department, you have a representative of the county fire community, you have only one representative of the founder. However, the founder manages financial resources and provides financial resources for the operation of the public fire department at the highest level. And you don't actually have any powers from this, so it turns out that he doesn't have any powers at all. So what I'm saying is, it's not just centralization, that's what I'm going to say is that politicization is this system, if we know that this city's fire commander should be appointed with the consent of the county commander. So don't we believe that this city commander, isn't he supposed to go about some kind of filter within his city's fire department, so we have so little confidence in people who run local self-government, that they will exclusively act politically. I mean, then we can do it on a higher level, the county will, and the state may also act politically, if that's how we behave. I find it unacceptable that third parties participate in the appointment of this fire commander in this case at all. I'm going to touch the funding, and I think it's still the biggest stumbling block in relation to saying local self-government and this fire system is actually people who have proposed this kind of law on fire and what you expect from local self-government, that it rewards you now on a law like this, on a law like this. And you have not accepted any remarks from the Croatian community of municipalities, nor from the association of the towns of the Republic of Croatia. And of course there are resistances now. So they don't exist in this situation when there's one huge uncertainty of the incomes of local self-government units. We know that there's been an increase in that personal deduction, that these tax changes are going to take place in the youth system, and that the local community, the local self-government, is going to lose a lot of funds here. Yes certain compensations have to be recognised secure in 2020, but this 2021 projection does not have those compensations. We've been stopped at some level without this particular growth. And now you're going again means in a way that from this kind of central level and you're conditioning, the first thing is the amount of severance you're supposed to get from firefighters, you've set it up, financed by the local self-government of course. The second thing, you also determine the coefficient of course, is in Article 68 and the coefficient of complexity of the business, or is determined by the chief fire commander. Well, isn't that a little bit to be given to the representative's body to determine it? A similar case is also the case with the basis which is by this means that the basis for calculating the salaries of civil servants and subsistences would apply. So once again an example of one, an eclative example of di is jeopardizing the autonomy of the units of local self-government and also here in this case here and the additions also, means adding the same to art. Paragraph 76.10., Appendixes are determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So another example di actually goes against the unit of local self-government and you go against what's declared here and the European field of local self-government that units of local self-government have a certain autonomy. I mean, my colleague, I'm very surprised by that on your part because given your experience in local self-government, I'll say so, you've easily gone over some of the remarks that came from local self-government regardless of the party's premonition and you know it well. You know it well, I don't need to tell you that again. And then what else do you have to conclude besides whether you're after that old, ideas... We can conclude that from this, from this bill of law, this new Fire Department. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would like to conclude is that I am also pleased to see a new EU budget period starting in 2021, to negotiate and to open the line, because indeed through measure 741, a lot of firehouses, despite the fact that they have really singled out huge funds for project documentation, I am sure that these are millions of amounts, did not go through the competitions, especially with regard to voluntary fire companies in northern Croatia, on the continent of Croatia, because they were also set up in this way, that DVDs were favored in the Croatian coastal part of Croatia. I'm not going in there, it was obviously a political decision and an office. However, we must look forward to the future if it is already going to form this central office, which is why at least a certain amount of funding is not provided, and I have also proposed, along with my colleague Hajdash Doncic and the amendment of the state budget, that, together with the units of local self-government, you go to the building anyway, means to secure that certain funds, units of local self-government are involved in co-financing, and that yet these homes for which there are project documentation, which could thus expire until the new budgetary period, that we still implement these projects. I think it was possible and it would be a good message to our DVDs by the state. If the State Sport Office can have 16 million secured for the construction of sports... The facilities, then, I believe this new State Fire Department can do the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178331	I thank you, my fellow Squishy. We have several replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178332	Thank you very much. You said that the firemen expected much from this law and then that disappointment was great, and that's true. So, the main and key problem today in the fire department except for these functional works is funding and we're talking about this funding all the time. So for years there's one injustice in the financial system through public fire departments and through DVDs, and that's what this law was supposed to solve. Unfortunately, it doesn't solve these problems that are, for years, there's been a unnecessary gap between professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters. Croatia needs both. Both are worth each other's worth, but with this law and this proposal and the solutions that are, only this conflict is still increasing. I'll say it one more time, so in art. In 67, a chamber of professional firefighters of Croatia is established to preserve the reputation, honor and rights of professional firefighters. Well, there are no volunteers anywhere, so these differences are deepening again, and these conflicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178333	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Vesligai, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178334	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's fellow Djujic, I agree with you, and that's what I pointed out in the debate that the law is going towards it, but it wouldn't be so much of a natural remark by voluntary fire that through the law it doesn't come to. Now the other side can talk and probably have some theory about it, but that's a fact. It's a fact, it's sad. It is regrettable, of course, that the system should be unique, we all know what is important of professional fire in those most difficult situations, but we have some different system set up in Dalmatia, we have a different system set up in northern Croatia, it is a thing and some of our past and the way it started with the formation of these DVDs, so it should all be taken into account and yet pass one law that will be on behalf of each other and primarily by fire, that is the most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178335	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178336	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Vesligai, you have said several times that the firefighters were expecting and were surprised. It must be clear to you that the firefighters wrote this bill and proposed it to the MUP. And you obviously don't have any contact with the firemen because if you did, you wouldn't talk like that. There's not a single remark from your county that came to the law. Based on what are you saying then? What kind of firemen are unsatisfactory? Maybe you or you're a fireman. So no fireman or officer or ordinary firefighters from your county made any remarks because the firefighters wrote this bill. Today we realized that... from the Primorje-Gorski County doesn't work but all the other county, you don't have a single county here that she's given. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Djujic has now proved that he has not read this law at all but only reads what they have told him. Because he says in art. The 47th chamber is established and there is no such thing in this bill at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178337	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178338	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, therefore, my colleague Sanader deviates from the usual rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. It's not right for him to say that he's not working, that they're not working. Well, he's the president of the Croatian Fire Department, I guess that's when commanding responsibility doesn't work either, maybe that's why he made the decision to shut down the Croatian Fire Department, but I think some other solutions should have happened, not this. So please warn your colleague Sanader that it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178339	I warn you, do not abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I give you notice on the basis of Article 239. We have a response to the replica. My dear colleague, Marco Vesligai, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178340	Comrade Sanader, I'm sure you know more than I do about the fire system in view of your experience, but you didn't exactly use this one here in an appropriate tone. I don't know why this one didn't come, which is why it didn't come from Krapina-Zagorian County to object to that law, but I was generally talking about the law. So as far as I know, representatives in the Croatian Parliament are representatives of the entire Republic of Croatia. So we're talking about a law that, please... so that from your constituency, but read to yourself I guess we represent Croatian citizens, right, no matter what part of these Croatian citizens come from, but I was getting comments from voluntary fire companies. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I don't know why they're not, maybe because you've shortened the public debate, maybe there's a lot to be put on two readings and so, you know, not this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178341	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178342	Thank you very much. Mr. Veiligaj said that volunteering is underestimating, underestimating this law, underestimating himself in this high house, underestimating himself in public. The same way you said you were never a member of a voluntary fire department, you weren't a volunteer, here I am old enough to be a volunteer firefighter for over 40 years, you wouldn't believe it. This and as a member and as president, I have attended a large number of ten fire departments, and I can tell you that the contents of these congregations, so that these congregations and content and communication, that I am not talking about tolerance are when at a much higher height than this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178343	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178344	Here, fellow Matjana I agree with this, of course, what you said, I think we should especially in laws like this, where we shouldn't be having any of the world-wide, world-wide differences that we have, which is why we're actually members of certain parties, there should be a little more of this and tolerance, there should be a little bit more communication between all interested stakeholders. Because this law isn't just about fire, it's about someone who's going to finance it. I see this one by Mr. Sanader puts aside, and that's it, so local self-government has to do it, so you're going to have to finance it and finish it, but good, good, okay. I think the relationship to voluntary fire companies is manifested in a way that neither the fire community has found any means or possibly co-financed the construction of those homes that didn't go to 741. the same shows some kind of relationship, but it's not the same... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178345	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178346	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I think. I know and I feel like we're discussing a law that's already actually been adopted and that defines everything and the chief fire commander and commanders, you can see it from this manuscript that's written. So it's defined, I'll always call on this to have a senior expert prepare the stands for the chief fire commander, and for the lower fire commanders of the stands high. It's defined as a person's exact place, so it takes over and centralizes the system, all in the hands of Mr. Sanader this time, he'll lead it all. There will be firemen depending on him, he will, of course, come regularly painting himself in the uniform of a fireman, a fireman, and that's his right legitimate, and that's okay. I think this law is the most mature to withdraw, since the short session won't be able to go to another reading if there's simply no time, but that in the next session in the next year this law can be passed I think it would be the most honest and fairest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178347	Thank you. Dear fellow Vesligai, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178348	Thank you. Well, here's colleague Bulj, I agree with you, that and that's what we've been through through the debate today all along saying that this is bad that this law goes like this by emergency procedure. I also think that you should go to another reading so that maybe then some big, pretty big doubt that we've detected here today, and they've actually been talked about by representatives of all the political options, maybe there's a better and better law of course on the well-being of our firefighters because I think that, given how much they put themselves into it, they deserve it. They deserve one fairer and one more fair relationship, so this law is passed by the Croatian Parliament, I should be repeating it again in the regular procedure, not all firefighters don't have a chance to participate in these coordinations, not all fire officers or anything like that, but I'm sure they're following this through the media and that maybe sometimes a smarter proposal comes from the base than worse from the top. Often, a tree can't be seen from the forest as it appears.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178349	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178350	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, and I would agree with all previous speakers who said they were looking forward to a new Fire Department Act because we currently have too many differences between professional and voluntary fire departments. When we see all the privileges that those in the public fire departments have, above all, funding, and we have only 71 of them in the Republic of Croatia and 2,400 professional firefighters, then we can't imagine what it would be like not to be those 110,000 members of voluntary fire companies gathered in 1,760 such companies. Unlike the public fire department, voluntary fire companies don't even get a drop from the state budget, and as we can see most of the fire protection right now lies on these small societies. When we link it to what we heard from colleagues Baričević and we know that mostly smaller environments, smaller units of local self-government, municipalities have voluntary fire companies, then it is really necessary to correct this long-standing injustice. What we all want the fire network that will finally be formed, that it corrects the injustices that most of us can say, and I expected it to be resolved and defined in the law itself, but here we are now expecting this sublegal act that will probably look more justly at the whole situation in the fire department. I would like to present some information and facts like this, and here my colleagues said that basically those mayors and mayors who were better with the government or those who were currently in power if they could get a public fire department, I would just say an example of the city of Vodice. We were just in 2011 and as you know in 2011, it wasn't the HDZ Government, so it also means that we had valid arguments and we got the consent of the State Rescue Authority... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 2011/2015 ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So by the end of the year, at the end of the year, but anyway, here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So the public fire departments that are now operating there are those that cover everything I know about more than a thousand inhabitants, there are those that cover an area of 35 km square and there are, of course, those that cover both a far larger number and a larger area. However, when allocated and still decentralised funds are allocated, there is a great inequality. In fact, we cannot figure out what the criteria are for the allocation of those funds. Namely, here is the town of Vodice, which has 18 firefighters, covering about 9,000 permanent inhabitants and a 94km square area in principle gets about a million and 800 thousand kuna. The town of Vodice is making almost as much money to make our public fire department work. Unlike some other environments that cover, as I said, I don't know all a thousand people, so they get almost the same amount or those that cover a far smaller area and get as much as 2 million and 400 thousand kuna. So not two times as many as 140% more than the public fire department of Vodice gets, or some who have twice as many, the number of inhabitants and only a third of the area, so they get a million kunas more. This time I appeal when a fire network is agreed on, it means that the criteria of the number of inhabitants, surfaces, but not to forget the local self-government units in the coast, which in the summer months have a multiple increase in number and number of guests and persons who have to protect against fires and the number of interventions is much higher than in the winter months. Because, for example, In recent years, 321 million kuna has been distributed in 2019. On average, according to the fire department, if we look at it that way, the troops received about 123,000 kunas. Our town of Vodice didn't even get 100 grand, which means 25% less than average, so I don't take the ones they've been getting and much more. The law stipulates that funds for the financing of firefighting should provide cities, municipalities and counties from their budgets and then it is declared precisely decided, so those who have up to 5 million kunas single out 5% of 25 3% and those of 45 million kuna allocate 2% of the funds and says in one of the following articles stands everything else will compensate the state from the state budget. Now, it is known exactly how many municipalities and cities will give and this minus whether it will make up for the number of employees or by any other criterion. Or, for example, If a city or municipality is due to its surface or anything it deserves to have only 18 employees and the one in the meantime, that public fire department has 34 whether the whole difference will be paid by the local self-government unit, which I think would be fair or will be fully covered by the city. And it would point out once again that I don't think it's right that urban and municipal budgets are being passed by the city council, or the municipal council, that criminal provisions apply only to the mayor or the mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178351	Thank you. We have replicas, a respected colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178352	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Juričev-Martinchev. You've actually had your whole debate about something that should be a key topic of this law and what we've pointed to and it's a fire network. And you've shown an excellent example. So the places that are located in the coast of the year, most of the year, I will say 9 months, those who have tourism 3, have one number of residents and the need for a certain number and three months have needs for something else, they need funding and investment. How will a single cookie that the state will have to give be divided, by what key, by what criteria? That's what was to be expected. So normally in a series of laws we have that will solve sublegal acts regardless of whether it's a regulation or a rule. But here's an important topic, there were supposed to be criteria, I think the provision of Article 116 is if I'm not mistaken. So it could have been 117 or 118 criteria because then the regulation wouldn't actually come into this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178353	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague of Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178354	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, I think it would be most just not to operate those where a public fire department is formed or where there is a voluntary fire company, or how many employees are in the public firehouse, but to make the criteria a resident, surface and number of interventions or dangers, but rather some kind of assessment or plan to protect against fires. Let's just forget who was more skilled and formed a public firehouse or even more skilled, so he hired 30 or 40 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178355	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178356	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. I agree with your debate. I would only single those two things out in this replica. The first thing is the fire department is a non-profit humanitarian and professional activity, so it's not communal and I think in that sense the amendment is going to make that units of local self-government should not be financed by increasing the municipal fee so that the increase in municipal compensation should be used to provide funding for this activity. And the other thing, I agree with you, so here it's not just a questionable way of funding that you've clearly shown on some examples, but in my opinion, it's a questionable way of setting up public fire departments. Namely, I do not think that the fire plan is the basis for the establishment of fire departments that the plan brings to the unit of local self-government, I believe that the state office of the future Croatian Fire Department should define the criteria for who can have and on what conditions and... such public units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178357	Thank you. Answer from my colleague, Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178358	The truth is, an impact assessment from fires and a fire protection plan is something that is ordered by both private companies and certain that there are certain and manipulations if the city orders one assessment and suggests that it would be very good to have it that it requires that we have 16 firefighters that we will then get one such assessment. It would be much fairer and more realistic to do this, I don't know, the MUP and that they make estimates exactly according to the state of the field, the number of inhabitants, the surface and all those needs that have a certain environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178359	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. At the end of last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration, which provided that the Croatian Fire Community would be a simplified state administrative organisation as of 1 January 2020. So it's been almost a year since then, and this would be an excellent debate about the Fire Department if it were the first law reading. It is indeed a complex matter where we have several aspects to see, and I am sorry that the Fire Department Act has come this way as a fire measure before it comes into force. So there was a time a year it was known that the Croatian Fire Department would become a state-run administrative organisation and that this law, in order to bring it into line then and some repairs, should be passed. This is the first formal comment to the MUP because as far as we heard from Mr Sanader, the bodies of the Croatian Fire Department were also debated on this. One of the main solutions, as Mrs Jelkovac said in the replica of her colleague Sasa Djujic, is that the Croatian Fire Department is no longer an association but is transformed into the body of the state administration. So since the association is within the law and under the Constitution forms a democratic association of citizens, the fire community ceases to be a democratic community and becomes a non-democratic community. It will no longer be the Croatian fire-fighting democratic community but will be the body of the state administration. Now, I don't see unlike my colleagues I don't see that problem, so when you say something like a position you're expected to do when you're in power, you should. I am quite certain that since the firefighters democratically elected Mr. Antu Sanader, who became HDZ's political secretary in the meantime and in my opinion in a completely incompatible position now to put out fires primarily in HDZ, and not fires, that he should thank the president of the Croatian Fire Department the moment he was given the post. I believe these are formally compatible, but active incompatible functions. So, now the government will appoint someone and I am quite sure that the HDZ Government will name someone the quality level of Andrija Mikulić, for example, as state inspector, so the Croatian Fire Department, and then once our government comes, I am sure that we will not return to being re-named Ante Sanader by the firefighters. Isn't that right, Mr. Sanader? You wouldn't do that either, as HDZ's political secretary. So, I have fewer reserves for that structure. My problem is, I don't think it was necessary to terminate the association because theoretically speaking, Mr. Sanader, Sasa Djujic and I can join together and form an association that would be called the Croatian Fire Department or the Croatian Fire Union or something like that, that allows us to do so. What her role will be, it's a matter of statute, and the thing is, what's being done with the state. I therefore believe that this law has certain aspects of the constitutional position that restricts the right to association because I believe that it is not a good practice for the association to be abolished by law. The association could have abolished the statute itself, it could have made a decision to suspend from 1 January in a manner prescribed by the statute, and of course, whether the state could have called the administrative organisation by another name. So I don't think there should be a legal continuity between the association and the body of the state administration because then imagine another solution, if another government wanted to return it as an association, it wouldn't be possible to make the legal continuity of the body of the state administration and the association. So I think the other way was to transform an association that would have had its own way, but it wouldn't have had this role it now has, but it would have played some role. It is also the right of citizens to free association. From that point of view, I believe it may be a little bit, I would say a milder form of legal violence, end the association by law. If the bodies of the association want to be abolished, they are free to adopt their statutes, they can change it and then they can put milder provisions for the termination of work, it must not be 3/4 but half as the statutes and changes, but I hold that the freedom of association is limited in this way and that such constitutionality of the abolition of an association would be questionable because there is no need. If most members of the Croatian Fire Department want it to continue to act as an association, they will establish an association, three people are enough to form an association. So the question is, should we go this way with an axe in this story, that's about the association. I've been talking to the work of the firemen from the coast, and I haven't seen the criticism of the provisions of the law as I've seen it by talking to certain parts of the people from the DVD on the continent. I hold of course that there are clear differences in the functioning of DVDs on the coast where we have, therefore, a marked season of summer forest fires on one side and, of course, what is happening on the continent. I have to admit that I don't even know enough, so what I do know, I've heard it from people I've been preparing for this point talking to. That's what the mayors said to Mr. Weldergay before. And I'm guessing that's what Mr. Mateo and Kovac will say after me is a matter of funding and authority. So that's where it needs to be aligned. It can't be that someone is funding something without having any authority or vice versa, so he doesn't finance anything without deciding everything, so she has one of Elvis J. Kurtovic's songs about writing songs, but if he said the title, then he'd get a warning, so I won't, but it comes down to it. There must therefore be a balance between powers and responsibilities. When I said about it, the HDZ political secretary shouldn't be president of the fire department, I didn't think the policy influence was bad, so fires happen when they happen, and when they need to be put out, I don't think they count the political grains of firefighters that are in this party, who's in who's not anywhere. In addition, a good example of the cooperation of various political options that are in power in the local self-government unit is just coming from the island of Brac. So the leaders of the 4 units of local self-government of the town of Supetar, the municipalities of Postira, Nerežiste and Sutivan jointly designed, coordinated and agreed on how to organise firefighting in their area, however, have succeeded, which is a very rare case but happens as a positive example of designing a joint measure from European funds which until then did not exist that this house was funded and there has been again aided by people from other political options, so in two municipalities they are in the power of HDZ, in one SDP and in one independent, so you can see that there was no problem in this regard to agreeing on something that was common good. A year and a few days ago, at the instigation of colleague Klarin, who unfortunately is not here today, and he's the chief, I spoke in a free statement of the clubs about the need to end the judicial agony of a firefighter from the famous Kornati tragedy because the institutions were hitting on who should settle for it, so who should settle for damage or who should therefore be involved in helping a person who was badly injured in that fire and after this, 10 years of hitting with it and in an orderly state should not be balled, which I heard, I heard, was concluded, that the government had succeeded with the State's Attorney's Office to settle some sort of deal. It still seems to me that the process goes on for the commander in that case and speaking to the firefighters, they think he's not guilty not in the sense that he didn't do that but hierarchically he shouldn't have been there. So that's something that's unclear again. We've got stories here whether we need to establish a public fire unit or a DVD hang with a higher funding. That must be known in advance. So in these three things, it turns out that the people in that system are left to the case and to quote one presidential candidate, the country where we're left behind is a random state. It shouldn't be like that. Fires also need this activity in which people put their lives and health in danger by doing a generally accepted human job, you should know more clearly the rights and responsibilities of how to help someone who is guilty, who is responsible, and in that sense I hold that it would be better if we had discussed this law in two readings to hear these things but here is why the Fire Department will still bring me the last day as a fire department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178361	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 21 and 35. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.37 A.M.]] It's time to discuss, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here in these late hours, sometimes we were more than in this assembly than in the afternoon, which actually speaks about the importance of this topic and how much it is, how public and how much it is, those who are interested in this topic. The debate was sometimes harsh, however, I believe it was content and I believe it was affirmative. In fact, because of the importance of the law itself, I must once again point out my disdain that this law, I have the feeling that this law goes over its knees, or its adoption by emergency procedure, in one reading, that it is not good, that this law should certainly go into at least two readings if it is already as it is not withdrawn. I think first of all, we're all aware of the time we live in. Looking at climate change, therefore, by looking at the adaptiveness or major changes that occur quickly and sharply in geopolitical terms, in fact, that all of this drags with it that more and more threats will be those related to elemental, therefore to nature, were those related to geopoliticals. Those with nature such as floods, large fires, or those related to geopolitical relations such as the refugee crisis. Therefore, this law is extremely important and it may sound pompous, but this is more important for the security of this country, more importantly because of the civil protection segment, and this is exactly the basis of civil protection in the Republic of Croatia. And the foundation of fire is voluntary firefighters. I have a feeling and most firefighters in me have the same feeling that in fact this law shares a fire department and it shares it in many ways. One of the divisions to which this law divides the fire department of Croatia is the part relating to professional firemen or to public units and the part relating to voluntary firefighters or voluntary fire companies. Now that we consider that in Croatia you have 71 public units with 30, with slightly less than 3,000 professional firefighters and on the other hand over 1700 voluntary fire companies with 110 thousand members, so an organization that has 110 thousand members and over 30,000 operational firefighters. You have public units financed by the state budget and whose finances are secured. On the other hand, you have volunteers who are exclusively funded from the local budget. So the dissatisfaction that has arisen among volunteer firefighters to me is completely understandable. The very criteria under which public units are formed in the Republic of Croatia are not professional, are not fire-fighting criteria, they are often linked to politics, especially after the Constitutional Court decision which told local communities that they have the right to establish public units, mayors, or mayors who were in that capacity, so they began to set up public units as mushrooms after the rain to join directly the state budget. So I don't think that division is good. On the other hand, the division I see is divided into continental Croatia and coastal Croatia, and that division is not good either. First of all, the tradition of fire at the continental part of Croatia is more than 140, 146 years old, I think it is the oldest fire company in Varazdin. The shelter organisation of volunteer firefighters is Croatia's fire community and I don't think this transformation is going in terms of affirmation and voluntary fire. Voluntary fires aren't just fire extinguishers. If we were to go back a little bit then we would actually see that not only in small rural communities, but also in those urban areas, there was a lot going on around fire. Sometimes what you couldn't say at the public assembly, what you couldn't say in public, could be said in the fire department and the fireman would be heard. So today, firefighters have a big impact on society, on the community they live in. And that should be the emphasis in this law, but above all, on the financing part. I hope deeply but it can only be a reward that post-legal acts that will make good intentions for the network, which has a good intention of the fire network that these sub-legislative acts will be different from what is the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, where in principle it is decided that mountainous and mountainous areas will be co-financed with certain money, however there are no clear criteria, nor is there any money provided for it. That's what it looks like for now and in this law that's ahead of us. All in all I think, in fact, that sometimes we want to be in Croatia, we don't want to invent hot water that turns out to be cold, or sometimes we don't want to be more Catholic than the Pope. In fact, Croatia with 4 million inhabitants, unfortunately even slightly less has 71 public units with 30 more in establishment while, say, the state that is synonym is not only Croatia for order, which is Germany, a country with over 80 million inhabitants has 80 public units, 80 public units. Austria, therefore, also has a very well-organised state where fire is the cornerstone of civil protection has 6 public units. Slovenia, which is closest to us and in which the fire department is extremely operational, has 11 fire units. It is sometimes very uncomfortable for me as the head of the municipality when we, for example, associate Slovenian and Croatian firefighters and when we see their equipment and when we see our equipment. We have come into a situation in fact to buy a shrimp, garbage from Germans, Austrians and Slovenians in order to strengthen our capacities, for all the reasons, because units of local self-government in the continental part of Croatia do not have such financial capacity to buy vehicles from, say, 1.5 million kuna, what are some local budgets, and how much a vehicle that would cost adequately. In the coastal part of this tradition, well then, this fire department is not as strong as it is on the continent, so let's say that in the Sibenik, Sibenik-Knin County and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, you don't have a single unit of fire youth that they could send to the competition, not a single one, but they have a large number of public units, so where the already rich coastal municipalities and cities of the state are still being financed through public units, with this law as well as 90% of the law is currently in front of us in public units or professional firefighters. For all of this, I am deeply hoping that you, as a fireman or fireman, and Mr. Sanader, will think once more about all this, therefore, that this law will indeed go into two readings for the reason that we would just avoid these conflicts in relation to the North-South, in relation to professionals, as regards volunteers, because once again, the situation in the world today is such that the frequency of threats that come to us and which will be increasingly requires that the civil protection system based on fire be as massier, that this mass may be capaccumulated, so also by education and profession, but also by money, because only such a massive, therefore, massive system can be of quality and can be a dam against what is coming to us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178364	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Stjepan Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178365	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, we've heard a lot already, it's quite late, I'm sorry that this law which I think is very important primarily for voluntary firefighters, but also for the Croatian Fire Department because I agree with my colleague Sanader when he said that the coordination was about going to change the law, but it certainly wasn't about shutting down or transforming in some other way the current fire department, it's two big differences, but it's a good game of words to talk about it. What's worried about the DVD now is what's going to be a link now means between the Central State Office and the DVD because it's not arranged and we don't know each other, we can just guess. There's also talk of a fire network, and there's a concern because people don't know which way or what the criteria are going to work. determine. I also agree with what we've heard about the DVD that there's a dispute between the south and the north that we say that because they're different maybe formed DVDs, in the north it's more voluntary, there's really like I said in the club's name over 30,000 volunteer firefighters in three northern counties, and it's like we heard tradition because when you look at the oldest DVD in Međimurje County is DVD Čakovec and DVD Prolog, the difference is two weeks in the establishment, since 1875, and the fire community as we know it was founded in 1876, means a year later and of course that people who are kneed to say, more generations in volunteer fire now are afraid of what they'll be because they don't know what way they're going to finance. What you said in the State Secretary's statement is that the law must be passed because it's about the operation of the fire system, the system is financing, maybe it's not ideal and needs to be changed, it needs to be changed because... But definitely not at the expense of DVDs because on more than one occasion it proved that not only were the first when it came to fire interventions, in Međimurje where it was this possibility of flooding means the firefighters defended as I said a couple of settlements that there was no major disaster and were the first on the ground and were the most organized, DVDs because it was tradition in us, because cities, municipalities, we invest, we invest annually, the town of Čakovec buys every DVD every year a van worth 200,000,00 kn, we invest in education, because what you said was going to do, we do it in the north, we invest in equipment, every year certain funds across the city of Čakovec's fire department are invested in the education of firemen because it's very important because it's more than in JVP and the city's finance itself, the city of JVP, and JVP's are financed by the government, but even the government, the government, which is financed by the government, but even by the government, 4 [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you look at on the other hand in the budget the funds allocated for next year 2020 with projections in '21, '22. the change is gone, and the same funds are, and we have established or are in the establishment of this year, end of the year, 8 new JVPs, so I am interested in the fact that the funds have not been increased to whom they will be taken to make peace because let's be realistic at least 2.5 million needs for one smaller PPP to operate with state resources because not only does the state mention it, so it might even have a fellow Sanader after me to answer some of these questions if possible because the decision was meant by the bill to until the regulation, the regulation of Article. The 116th century 4 of this law cannot be established by the JVP whether it refers to co-financing or only to the establishment and in 2019 as I said 8 new public fire departments, so I wonder who will finance it all, all of which is nice, I agree that we should, to be safe but we can't act like drunk millionaires because the state has no money, who will finance it, that it doesn't fall on cities and municipalities again. Last week we had an Association of Cities, you said it was on counseling. Maybe some were involved and talked but there wasn't, we had, the revolution was in the City Association, we weren't looking at political options, we unanimously made a decision to go on, we made a decision to request an assessment of the constitutionality of this law. So that's where HDZ mayors sit, not just the SDPs, we hug for cities, for citizens of the city regardless of party membership. So something's wrong, it's passed, the law is passed, which is why so quickly, why don't you go to another reading. Well, the law's been over 700 these past 15 days, so is that normal? It means something's wrong. The remarks were made by people who were in this firehouse, so they didn't give, I didn't give, although for 15 years I'm the least member of a voluntary fire department, I walk to all fire departments, annual congregations, and I know what voluntary fire companies are, not only are they active, but they're highly successful. I especially appreciate working with young people. Who's gonna do it now? Where's the money for the competition gonna come from, who's gonna pay the medals, who's gonna pay the judges? Because one is a roof organization that was now and the other is this state office you're setting up, that's two different things. And there are numerous misunderstandings which, of course, members of voluntary fire companies do not know, and that is, as I have said, a tradition longer than the Croatian Fire Department itself, which, as of 1.1., is abolished by Article 125 of the new law even though their statute states that, so it can be brought by the assembly and by the majority of votes if I am not mistaken. That's not how we do it. We're dealing with this law, we're removing the other one. Is that okay? Well, I don't think so. Since he himself is a colleague of Sanader and the president and a longtime active member whose work I greatly appreciate in firefighters and respect, I am sorry that he did not go out to his fellow Members at the assembly, he first talked about it with those people whose law concerns us, not that we are here in the late hours to discuss whether certain things are good or not. Because I'm saying, there's been a conversation in the coordination that the law needs to be amended. And here I agree, it needs to be changed, there are some innovations to be brought, there are some things to improve, but there are no talks about shutting down the Croatian Fire Department, that's the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178366	Thank you. We have a replica, dear colleague Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178367	Thank you, Vice President. The distinguished co-worker will continue to remain the Croatian Fire Department, as there remains both the presidency and the headquarters in Croatia, i.e. the command board and the National Fire Prevention and Shutdown Committee. As for the new units, the existing ones, they will not be taken to the expense of the old units for new troops, the state colluded 10.5 million kunas for new troops. And it's secured 3% increase for old asset units and... rights because a higher income tax is expected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we talked and you know that this law is a proposal from firefighters, this law is not a policy proposal, this law is a proposal from the Croatian Fire Department that went towards the Ministry and then towards the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178368	Thank you. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178369	Thank you, Vice President. Here's just a few things to clean up this debate because it's all expensive and recorded and it's going to be written down so it doesn't stay unclear. So first, the Croatian Fire Community was not destroyed, I repeat for the 5th time, the Croatian Fire Community remains to work with its bodies and certainly, the absolute link between the base and the county fire communities, the fire communities of cities and municipalities, it is important to say first. Secondly, the objections to this law, it is true, there are 635 objections but if you have read the comments then you could see that these 635 remarks came from 53 factors, legal persons or natural persons, 53. If we're talking about the Primorje-Gorski County, all the objections came from four people, four people. No other county fire department has made any comments. So this law is in line with all the fire departments of the county and this is their subject, and that also confirms the objections to this law. So we have 110 thousand registered members of the fire network and we certainly have 150 thousand members of the Croatian Fire Department. 53 are therefore objections to this bill of law, some of which are legal persons. It best shows how much this bill's consent is. Try today to pass any law before such a large and wide mass. This is the result of the 2nd year of negotiations and talks with all, all fire communities, all co-ordination, trade unions, Croatian Employers' Association, counties, cities, municipalities. We had 2 meetings with the county, 2 meetings with the Association of Cities, 2 meetings with the association of municipalities, we talked about everything and we tried to negotiate everything, we couldn't accept everything because we have a concept and we know what the problems in the fire department are and there's something that can't be passed and it's a unique structure, a unique command. The command line must be firmly known, without this command line system cannot function, the system has its difficulties because 3 levels were state, county and local, each functioned for itself. This system does not suffer particularly in the times in which we are, and these are the times of great events, great fires, great problems or floods where this system must function uniquely no matter who it finances. Here we are, when we talk about these problems, the issue of the fire councils is highlighted. Fire departments are such a composition because that's what funding is, while the state finances public fire departments with over 50% then that state has the right to say something there. When cities and municipalities take full funding, then surely the administrative council will be an absolute city. That's why the commander's consent went well. These are said to be given more attention, someone said more attention to volunteer firefighters. Voluntary firefighters have absolutely got everything that can be obtained under our legislation, and everything that firefighters have in the most developed countries. When I speak to the most developed, then I mean fire most developed, which is Austria and Germany. We have studied the fire system of Austria and Germany well, from Austria-Hungarian it started organized Croatian fire and today they are our role model, but today we are dealing equally with them, and as confirmation that we had a vice president of the world organisation, we have received our fire organization, it is recognised by the world organisation of Croatian fire. But we used and respected all the benefits, we can't give the volunteer fire department the right not to come to work and the owner says it's a good thing you didn't come. It could have been socialism. It's not working today. Every single one of you can't tell a man if he has a coffee shop, why don't you go on fire? He can do it in his spare time, so they're called volunteer firefighters. Why is punishment for, uh, here mentioned, punishment for volunteer firefighters? Because you're a volunteer firefighter until you enter the system, but when you enter the system and make a commitment, then you're bound by something. If you're scheduled to be on duty tonight for the third shift at the firehouse, then you can't not come on that third shift, you can't justify yourself. So there's a line in the fire department. So if you're expected to intervene, if it's known that you're in the intervention group, then you're bound to. There's no more volunteering, it's volunteering until you get in. And you volunteer on your own time. And the firemen don't volunteer for benefits, so they're not benefits fighters, they went in there voluntarily because they want to help others. And they're aware of what can be done. This law has given everything that could be done in voluntary fire. No one prevents local self-government, some city or municipality from parking free of charge, a free kindergarten, a communal fee, that's what some cities and municipalities do because they can't find voluntary firefighters and then stimulate them, but it's semi-professionalism. Everything you give benefits is semi-professionalism. If I'm a volunteer firefighter, then I have to complain that I don't need anyone to give it to me, no confession, no medal at the end. That someone else has to assess, not that I'm asking you to come if you're going to give me a medal. Then which is it, it's a trade relationship. So we don't accept that, and that's why we imposed those sanctions because it has to be seriousness and responsibility. Why did we hire, there's no lady here who asked a question, why did we put a fireman's job? Because firefighters have some of their activities where a member can be employed, it does not go to school and clearly writes in the law not go to the expense of activity, nor goes to the burden of the city and the municipality, if the city, if it has organized some kind of festival fire or festival some place and that, so he hired a man there to pay him because it is not fire activity. Fire plans are a new thing, and fire plans must regulate what has not been regulated by fire protection and assessment plans. We have a sad situation today where we have to change the Fire Protection Act because there are evaluations and plans for private companies, and private companies are working on the order of mayors and mayors and can put you all you want. It's a system that's unsustainable, and that's why we're going to go on fire plans and a fire grid to regulate what's needed and what can be paid for. The criteria for the fire network were also a question. It's a legitimate and precise question. We want the fire network evenly, fair funding ratio, and we will fight not to establish new fire departments because it is a burden for both the state budget and the overall fire department because voluntary firepower is being destroyed and therefore we will use criteria. The criteria are brought by the fire commander and adopted by the government. So the fire department will go with its proposals, the government will adopt what it can finance. We managed to win, this government gave 20% of the BOX was 4%, this government raised it to 20% and gave it to all of Croatia because 4% was financed only by coastal counties, and now it is 20%, according to the law of at least 20% of the BOX's general service functions of the forest and this government brought it to this government and put it for the whole of Croatia, so for all counties. Here's a part of your remarks, but it's also said here a couple of times that the county commander has to have a high-tech training kit and there's an alternative, high or higher professional preparation, because we don't have a high fire school, we don't have a fire department. So we take people who are general professions, and that's why we're looking for great years of experience. So long years of operational experience and the condition is 10 years on the command duties of county or state importance or 15 years of the same importance and operational capacity, but with higher expertise. So the waist is, the waist is put first. Some mayors are awake now, as you are, so I heard here the debate, you've set a basic salary, you've set coefficients, look, some of them have run into each other, so they wanted to take state money and set up professional units, and they weren't aware of how much the professional firefighter cost, they weren't aware of how much the professional unit cost. But they slowed down, and my Dalmatians would say for the money the state gives for a professional firefighter, and they started proposing in the last smallest municipalities where in the last 10 years there have been 3 fires they would now start professional fires because as a state they would pay for it. Now that you have to pay that professional firefighter, his basic salary, possibly severance, because you can't hold a disabled man, if a man turns 60, he can't be an operational firefighter anymore, he's no longer able to take 25 kilos on his back and go on the 10th floor. And that's why you gentlemen who went to the establishment of the task force, and there was no reason to justify it, nor do you need professional troops to think about it now. Well, then, if you estimate that your meeting is a professional firefighter, find another form of organization, but it's not the law's fault. This law must enable as is the previous, professional firefighter has the same status as a policeman. And whoever likes to go ahead, but not someone else's account, that's the key, and this is the law that got rid of it. We cry when we see, we're all sad and we express great expressions of compassion when a fireman is killed in Velika Gorica, but when a fireman needs to put him on the status that belongs to him then does it cost, doesn't cost, means professional firefighters have a price, but we owe these firefighters a level and responsibility, but also their rights as the employees of the MUP because... And we got out of that system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I think our bodies made a decision and it wasn't, we didn't make the decision ourselves, all the congregations agreed to this model.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178370	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Marija Mačković, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178371	.../The speaker disfellowshipped/...respected vice president HS, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, it's hard to speak here after the first man, as I would say by the fire department, and I've tried and I've tried four versions to start this debate, but here lately there's always some whining and some thought, there's no way these volunteer firefighters are going to be. I'm 20. As head of the local self-government unit, I hear that the fire department is a humanitarian non-party association of interest to the Republic of Croatia and 20 years. from the budget of Jasenovac municipality we support or finance voluntary fire because we want it, because we need it. Jasenovac municipality is set up so that there are 6 DVDs joined in a fire-fighting community of Jasenovac, we have 280 volunteer firefighters, and I am surprised that someone who has far more income than probably has Jasenovac municipality that has tax revenues, about 3.5 million of this year will have, and I had no problem with co-financing their firepower and they are my first hand and perhaps the most important hand in defence of the flood, of the elemental disasters and of all the events that are often and unpredictable where firefighters jump in. I must say that the activity of fire in the Jasenovac municipality has a great tradition and I am just obliged to do this long tradition to address and participate in the debate, so the oldest society is a 139-year-old DVD Jasenovac, so firefighters are extraordinary people who will always come to your aid and never leave you at all that their lives are at risk. I have to say that volunteer fire department in the Jasenovac municipality, so there's a central society... The Jasenovac DVD, which has 20 firefighters who are trained and have a fire test, have the insurance they have, and the rest of the fire departments have 10 interrogated firefighters who also have medical beliefs and this is not a small cost. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must also say, and this is the most important thing that investment in firefighting certainly depends on the head of the local self-government unit because the head of the local self-government unit is competent, relevant and responsible for the activity of the fire department. My DVD in the municipality participates with youth every year in the county competition and strives to at other events in the place as it is said at world events to be active participants because the fire department is a tradition and they are in some way aside from this tradition the trademarks of almost all these rural small areas. In particular, it is said that the area of Jasenovac municipality is really in the rural area, the area which, having its specificities, is located on the border with BiH, has a nature park Lonjsko polje where there are often fires of an open type, has been in the last 10 years of flooding, every year at least one large flood or declaration of state of emergency and voluntary firefighters are the first ones who are always there and who are almost always at least 30, and sometimes 50 days in the flood defense system is on the watch and more shifts day and day by day with the help of fellow volunteer firefighters who come from the areas of neighbouring municipalities and cities, so the fire system in the area of the municipality is being carried out through DVD, the equipment is what it is, so far we have not bought any new vehicles and we have no new vehicles, all related to buying from someone who has a really advanced, while there are vehicles and all those who have vehicles and all of which we do not need to buy a single vehicle, but one of the same age this year. When it is said that in this Fire Department, I am a volunteer fireman in 40 years, I have an act in the fire department, and I am present at every assembly, and I am well aware, with me at least once a week the commander and president of the fire department or DVDs, we have arranged almost all their homes, that's the only thank you we can tell them and to help finance their congregations, their associations because it's all the only pay we can give because none of them ever took a journal in connection with the interventions they went to, and there were very, very many and very many hours. I think that even as far as we're concerned we're well-organized and well-organized because they've entered all the data into the network that is now existing and, as I said about this new law, I've asked my commander, president and members of certain fire departments, even the president of the county fire department related to the final law where they told me, so I was interested, and I was interested in seeing it because it's important to me, like all of us who are constantly talking about volunteering to be, that they're not, in some way, cut off, everyone told me, and see if there's any other fire grid system because it's been planned to pay off, or to compensate for the activity of fire departments that don't have JVP, that's left. It also sees whether in insurance premiums for what insurance companies pay for the financing of fire and local self-government units is 40% left. I think it's also good in this law that the system of command is very important in any body, any way of command especially in the fire that it's very important. And here, too, with regard to volunteer firefighters, it was nevertheless made sure that all those who in some way suffer by acting on fire duty would be helped, it could never be helped as much as necessary but would be helped for the family of the deceased, for his funeral, if an accident also happened, and it would be compensated in some way. According to this law, everyone's saying something is losing, I don't know, I'm the head of a local self-government unit who's in charge of a part-time fire department, I guess I'll get something. So far I've been getting from the county maybe 20, 30 thousand kuna, we've always given more than 5% to the budget because it's too little, I guess now I'm going to get about 200 grand, some have calculated it, calculated it, so I'm still going to get something. So I don't know what's so disastrous about it, and why it's disastrous in that law because all those 20 years I've had to take care of the firemen have never been neglected, we've managed to maintain this activity of firefighting through youth and through children and give due respect to our veterans and all those who can always rely on them, and most of them are not, at least no one has said anything bad about volunteer firefighters, everyone has praised them and I am proud of my firefighters with whom we can meet all the challenges together, everything that hits us in the area of the Jasenovac municipality. And I've gotten in with them many times in a car or a van in the prescribed equipment as well as I think it's for my honor, and probably it should be for everyone else. And here, I don't see by this law that has been proposed that the municipalities of these small ones in the rural area will lose anything. Everything we get, whether it's 100 grand kuna, we're still going to get something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178372	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague of Jelkovac Maria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178373	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your long-term volunteer work on DVD, and I think that what's particularly important about DVD tonight is that it's actually the DVDs that attract you, and from childhood to young new generation and actually raise future firefighters. And I'm sure that this tradition of DVDs in our society will continue to be cherished and I'm sure this bill of law by the firefighters themselves will contribute to even better status and DVDs along with JVPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178374	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mačković.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178375	Dear colleagues, I think the children and the young backbones of the fire department and it's very nice to see them practicing for the competition, the competition with those brans, watering themselves. Firefighters, like you said, who say about our holidays, the Great Lady wear the statue of the Mother of God, are respected in their settlements, which is the most important and here is what I have said to the resources that come from these sources under this new Fire Department will also try to invest in young people, perfecting staff and all that brings progress and improvement to the protection of all of us and the property of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178376	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. We move to a statement on amendments, to the Final Proposal of the Fire Department, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.798. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The SDP representative club has proposed to the Croatian Assembly to draw conclusions that read. Under 1st, it is found that the debate on the proposal of the Fire Department was carried out in the first reading. Under 2nd, any observations, proposals will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for the Fire Law. I ask the Secretary of State, Mr. Zarko Katic, to be made aware of this proposal's conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178378	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, this proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178379	Thank you. There's no proposer, we'll vote. We move to the conclusion submitted by the GLAS Representatives' Club on the final proposal of the Fire Department Act, the third reading will take place. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178380	The proposal for a conclusion of the GLAS Club is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178381	Thank you. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, Liberal Democrats, MP Stjepan Kovac, representative of Stjepan Curaj, Club of HDZ Representatives, Club of SDP Representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We are moving to the First Amendment of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178382	The amendment of the Legislative Committee is accepted because it is of nomotechnical nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178383	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. We are moving to the Second Amendment of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178384	The second amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178385	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Third amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178386	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178387	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourth amendment of the respected representative of Stjepan Kovac. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178388	The amendment of a representative of Stjepan Kovaca is not accepted. The legislator considers that the position of the district fire commander is responsible and that it cannot be performed in parallel and therefore the amendment is rejected, it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178389	Thank you. The esteemed colleague of Kovac is gone, we'll vote. We're moving on to the Fifth Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178390	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178391	It's becoming an integral part of the law, thank you. We move on to the Sixth Amendment, the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178392	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, for the purpose of the effectiveness of the operation of the command fire system, it is considered that the city, area or municipal fire commander, on the proposal of the chairmanship of the city's fire department, the municipality or the area fire community, will, in accordance with the terms of the prescribed law and with the agreement of the district fire commander, appoint the mayor, the municipal chief or the decision to establish a joint fire community established as head of the local self-government unit, for 5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178393	Thank you. No one from the SDP Club is present. We'll vote. We move to the 7th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178394	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178395	It's becoming an integral part of the law, thank you. We move on to the 8th Amendment, the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178396	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP is not accepted in view of the desire to establish a command structure and for the reason that the State budget provides funds for public fire departments through decentralised funds, which is contrary to the fact given by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178397	Thank you. There aren't any, we'll vote. We're moving on to the 9th Amendment, the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178398	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178399	There's an integral part of the law. I thank the Secretary of State. We move to the 10th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178400	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178401	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. We're moving on to the 11th Amendment, the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178402	It is accepted that, in accordance with the Government's conclusion of 11 December 2019, if we need to specify in more detail, it is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178403	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. We move on to the 12th Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178404	The amendment is therefore partially accepted in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 11 December 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178405	You agree with your friend Curaj? Do you agree with that, colleague Curaj? Tell a fellow secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178406	Therefore, the amendment of Mr Stjepan Curaj to Article 51(6) and (8) shall be accepted in part. The final proposal of the Fire Department Act in the amended form, so that it reads: The Chief Fire Commander and his deputy must have completed pre-graduate and graduate university studies or integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies or completed undergraduate and specialist professional studies and at least 10 years of experience in fire departments with special powers and responsibilities, or undergraduate university studies or short vocational studies or pre-graduate professional studies for 3 years and 15 years of experience in fire departments with special powers and responsibilities. The main fire commander, his deputy or assistant and the county fire commander or deputy district fire commander or fire commander, or fire commander of the City of Zagreb or Deputy Fire Commander of the City of Zagreb, paragraph 6 and paragraph 8 reads...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178407	Do you accept your colleague Curray?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178408	I thank you for the explanation that, in fact, this is what I wanted to do with the amendment to extend that part of the conditions of applications and for doing these jobs and for those who completed university studies three years ago, and not only professionally, and I accept this in this amended form.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178409	Thank you. The amendment amended or read as read by the Secretary of State and accepted by Mr Curray becomes an integral part of the law. We move to the 13th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178410	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178411	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. We move to the 14th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178412	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, it wants to ensure the stability of the fire system and the safety of citizens through the equalisation and establishment of minimum coefficients for the complexity of the jobs of firefighters, and therefore the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178413	Thank you. There are no SDP colleagues present, we will vote on the amendment. We move to the 15th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178414	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178415	It becomes an integral part of the law. I thank the Secretary of State. We move to the 16th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178416	The amendment is not accepted. An explanation as well as for a last amendment that has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178417	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We move to the 17th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178418	The amendment is not accepted as much as for the previous one to be rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178419	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We move to the 18th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178420	The amendment is not accepted. The same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178421	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We move to the 19th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178422	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178423	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178424	The same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178425	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. Moving to 20. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178426	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178427	It becomes an integral part of the law. I thank the Secretary of State. We move to the 21st Amendment of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178428	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178429	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. We are moving to the 22nd Amendment of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178430	The amendment is accepted, the word "state" is deleted, so it is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178431	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. We move to the 23rd Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178432	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178433	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. We move on to the 24th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178434	The amendment of HNS MPs to the Liberal Democrats is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178435	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. We move to the 25th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178436	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178437	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178438	The 25th amendment, therefore, in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, of the provisions of the laws attached to the budget plan, in such a way as to state the bill of the accounting plan 61, i.e. specifically with the figure, would mean that any change in the accounting plan would require amending the law and therefore the amendments are rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178439	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We move to the 26th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178440	The 26th Amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, and an explanation is not accepted as for the previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178441	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We move to the 27th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178442	The amendment is not accepted. Same explanation as for the previous two who were rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178443	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. We move to the 28th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178444	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178445	Thank you. Once again, Mr. Secretary of State, I didn't quite get it. 24th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, does the government accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178446	110? 24. Yes, she does.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178447	Accepts? Thank you very much. I thank the Secretary of State. I thank the Secretary of State for the reasons of the amendments. With this, we have made a statement on all amendments submitted to all the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178448	Final proposal of the Fire Department, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 798. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads as follows: "1. It is found that the debate on the proposal of the Fire Department was carried out in the first reading and 2. All comments, proposals will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal of the Fire Law." I am voting on a proposal to conclude a SDP representative club that the government does not accept. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has not received the required number of votes. The club of GLAS representatives proposed a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, which reads: "The final proposal of the Fire Department will be followed by a third reading". It shall be put to the vote to propose the conclusion of the GLAS Representatives Club which the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Neither did this proposal for a conclusion by the GLAS Representatives Club receive the required number of votes. So then we go to the amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, Liberal Democrats, MP Stjepan Kovač, representative Stjepan Curaj, the Club of HDZ Representatives and the SDP Representatives' Club. The review of the amendments has been submitted by electronic means, and we have conducted the statement earlier in the session, and we will now vote on the amendments submitted. Let's take it in a row. 1st is the Legislative Committee, adopted, becoming an integral part of the law. 2. is the Legislative Committee, adopted as well as 3., and both become an integral part of the law. 4. Representative Stjepan Kovac, the government does not accept it, and we must vote. Please vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 5 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment number 6 of the SDP Representatives Clubs has not been accepted, so we must vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No 7 of the HDZ Representatives Club has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 8 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted by the Government, so I ask that we vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 9 of the HDZ Representatives Club has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 10 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs has been accepted. Amendment number 11 of the HDZ Representatives Club has been accepted and these three amendments become an integral part of the law. Amendment number 12 of Stjepan Curaj's MPs was accepted in an amended form as MP Curaj accepted so that he became now an integral part of the law as well as an amendment no. 13. HDZ Representatives' Club. Amendment No. 14. The SDP's club is not accepted by the government, so I'm asking that we vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 15. The HDZ representative club has been accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 16. The SDP representative club is not accepted and we must vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. The 17th same Club of Representatives doesn't accept it, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 18th of the same Club of Representatives, the government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. In 19th, once again, the SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 20. The HDZ Representatives Club was accepted as well as Amendment No. 21. The Legislative Committee. Amendment No. 22. The Committee on Legislatives has also adopted Amendment No. 23. The HDZ representative club has been accepted. Amendment No. 24. The club of HNS representatives is also accepted and all these amendments become an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 25., the SDP counseling club is not accepted, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 26. The SDP advocates' club, not accepted, so I'm asking you to vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment Fight 27. The SDP advocates' club, not accepted, so please vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And last amendment No. 28. The HDZ representative club has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Now we're going to approach the vote. I stress that Article 252 is in line. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require half the majority of all MPs, therefore 76. I am voting on the final proposal of the Fire Department. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 1 abstention and 48 against the Law of Fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178449	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final bill on the processing of biometric data, second reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would like the representative of the motion of the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Zarko Katic, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178450	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. And gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me give you very briefly the reasons for the adoption of the Biometric Data Processing Act and the short difference between the first and second readings. As modern societies are known to threaten different threats and it is therefore necessary for countries as well as the EU to better manage information that can, with respect for fundamental human rights and the right to protection of personal data, better understand from these information systems what dangers threaten, better protect borders, better manage migration, combat cross-border crime and strengthen internal security for the benefit of all citizens. As is known, the EU has several large existing information systems such as the Schengen Information System, the visa information system and the European dactyloscopic data system of migrants and asylum seekers known as EURODAC but also has future information systems such as the European criminal record information system for third-country nationals such as the system of entry, exit or the European Travel Information System and their approval. And all these systems as well as national systems that the Republic of Croatia has, the information system of the Ministry of Justice, the information system of the MUP, the Croatian Visa Information System or the Information System of the Ministry of Justice relating to the prison system need to be connected. In this respect, two interoperability regulations that provide a legal framework for the integration of these large information systems were adopted at EU level in June this year. So the purpose of this interoperability is to connect all available information systems and databases, whether they are national or European in a way that will allow simultaneous data collection from all these systems. Here is our Proposal for a Law on the Processing of biometric data to discuss these issues very closely and provides a framework for connecting databases. Compared to the first reading, this final bill has seen very little changes. They relate first and foremost to Article 3 containing certain concepts used in this law, so that some of the definitions already contained in other regulations such as the definition of data processing, the definition of the personal data of an international organisation, and among the competent authorities authorised to collect and process biometric data are listed other than the MUP, external affairs, justice and the Ministry of Defence in the section relating to the implementation of military police regulations in accordance with specific regulations. It was also adopted the objection of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee on the need for nomotechnical amendment of Article 19(2), which is all the differences contained in the final proposal of the Biometric Data Processing Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178451	I thank the Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here's my colleague, Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178452	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal of the Biometric Data Processing Act. The secretary of state has already highlighted the differences compared to the first reading, I will only visit that the EU's most recent initiative is in the field of security in the area of data exchange through the interoperability of information systems and databases with biometric data. The most important reason for this initiative is the growing number of illegal border crossings, thus increasing the risk of terrorism in the EU. We also see problems with the migrant crisis, the biggest migration challenge of II. the global war that is here and towards our country only grows and manages information in the EU and in our country can and must be more effective and effective with full respect for fundamental rights, including in particular the right to the protection of personal data, and all for better protection of borders, better management of migration, combating crime, strengthening internal security in favour of all citizens. In this respect, our country as a Member State is the longest external border to which the direct strategic objective is essentially to achieve full membership in Schengen, it has identified the issue of interoperability as one of the priorities of the EU presidency. This law therefore provides for conditions for the processing of biometric data in information systems within our country as well as related information systems within EU countries. It is important to recall that this law, and in accordance with the applicable rules relating to the protection of personal data, attaches particular importance to the protection of natural persons against the abuse of their personal data and their secrecy, so anything guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Therefore, the aim of this law is to ensure quick and controlled access to information by competent authorities to information systems between our EU country for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and law enforcement of serious crime and terrorism, so in every sense, after practically passing this second reading, we support the application of this law and its experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178453	Thank you. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178454	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Katic, secretary of state. You yourself said that between the first and second reading there were no major changes, as far as I'm concerned, as a person dealing with this area this law could have gone without two readings and that's a fact. So as we have heard this bill except that it could go without two readings and that's a fact, it's a very good law because it solves the question of the need to exchange data, and we know that there are several databases in Croatia, when we talk about databases, we talk about information databases. You mentioned as the most important information system of the MUP, we have a Croatian visa information system, we have a prison information system. and when we talk about the EU, then the situation is a little more complex, except for Eeurdesk, which you mentioned in general the Schengen Information System and the Visa Information System and some other systems, we know that Europol has several systems. All these systems should be interoperable, cooperate with each other, but should not be redundancy, that means that data from one system should not be repeated in another system. When we talk about biometric data, we will often hear questions about what biometric data is and how simple it is to explain it. So it should be said that the example is the simplest example of biometric data, so-called biometric data. The papal line of the finger and taking it that way biometric data, which is the simplest and fastest. There is also the possibility of a facial scan, a Pupil scan, and according to the latest revision of the Schengen Information System Regulation, it is also based on DNA samples, and we know that a complete audit or improvement of the Schengen Information System will take place by 2021. Likewise, when we speak in this context of geometric data, it should be said that this interoperability of information systems at EU level is something that since 2015, therefore, from that open door policy to Germany and the major migrant crisis, then terrorist attacks, is the priority of the European Commission at the highest political level. So there is a great need for effective data exchange. For those who have not been in this topic for a long time, when I mentioned this.../incomprehensible/... or EURODAC as we would say in Croatia, it is important to say that this is a very important system, because it is the most important European system for comparing fingerprints, so just basic geometric data and regulation on this system was adopted in 2013. Therefore, each EU Member State must be a participant in the EURODAC system in such a way that each asylum applicant must pass biometric data processing. Likewise, persons who enter without valid documentation and also persons who find themselves illegally crossing the border. What is important to say is that there will be processed persons who are more than 14 years old, so this is the minimum age limit, and that means that when a person is found in an illegal entry into the EU Member State, it will be taken biometric data, and we think first of all on the fingertip, in case that it is not possible to take other biometric or biographic data and within 72 hours of the time of taking that information, that information must be in the EURODAC system, and in the EURODAC system, therefore only EU Member States should be used, and this is a system that is specific because other external members should not be used by a EURODAC system unlike some other systems that can be used, other non-EU countries. When we mention the importance of biometric data, they mentioned earlier that Croatia is in a very demanding geographical position, so it is so called. the position is exposed because across our border goes the one, the one we hate to talk about, but it's called the so-called so-called. The Balkan route, which represents a link between Western Europe and the close one, and it is kept in mind that Croatia's border with Montenegro is 51 km, that Croatia's border with Serbia is 325 km, that Croatia's border with BiH is 1.001 km, and that border with BiH, which I think is around 875 km if I'm not mistaken. And when we take all this into account and consider the pressure in the tourist season and beyond the tourist season on land, sea and air borders, then we must be aware that border control, primarily the competent authorities of the MUP and customs are under great pressure, if the whole system is too slow, inert and does not go quickly. So, what is important to say is that persons who pose a security threat when entering a country or lying about their identity or having forged or incomplete documents, those persons must absolutely be checked quickly and efficiently in the information system, and the competent authorities who do so must have a complete picture of that person. In order for this to be possible, these systems must be interoperable, these systems must be fast, efficient and not be regular between these systems. Also when we mention Europol, we have two important systems. One is the AIS so-called. Is it not important that these systems are used not only by the competent authorities in Croatia but also by other members, both institutions and agencies and offices and ministries as competent bodies and all these systems actually serve all of these institutions in a way that they share information with each other. While I was waiting for this debate, I checked the most recent data, so we can say that growth is huge, the growth of the use of information systems within the EU Member States, that what was 5 years ago is now 60 and 70% higher growth, so let's say for the information system that is SIENA, which is Europol's information system, we have more than 30,000 searches per week, it's growing by 50, the data is 2 years old, and the latest data is more than a million searches. When we talk about Schengen, it's an ex potential growth that's enormous, so we have more than 5 billion searches, and we also have 80 million warnings. When we talk about the AIF security system, then we have interesting information that 18 people who represented the threat were written there in 2014. foreign extremists or fighters, and today that number is more than 5,000. So from 2014, from 18 people to 5000 people who are potential terrorists or extremists, that's one example, so that's more than 100% growth. In order to highlight the need for data exchange, it is indeed necessary to say that this bill systematically takes care of all the rules on the protection of personal data, the particular concern is the protection of natural persons from the abuse of their personal data, but the particular emphasis is the realization of the current greatest threat in the EU Member States, which is of course the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178455	Thank you. I conclude the debate, thank the Secretary of State for the reasons of the bill, we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178456	Final proposal of the Biometric Data Processing Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 756. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Biometric Data Processing Act. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 122 votes for the adopted law on the processing of biometric data.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178457	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Final draft law amending the Law on the Construction and Fractional of Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 799. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by virtue of the Article. 197. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I'd like the Secretary of State at the Department of Administration, Mr. Neelic, to give us an additional explanation of the final bill, please, please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178458	I thank Mr Vice-President and welcome all MPs and deputies, so as has already been said before you, the draft draft law amending the Law on the Establishment and Fraction of the Ministries and other central bodies of the State Administration, a new name of that law, so if voted in such a proposed form, should mean the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Authority of the State of Administration. This law aligns the Law on Design with the provisions of the State Administration System Act, which entered into force on 18 July 2019. As a result, the categorisation of the state administration's first-degree and central authorities has ceased. With regard to this law, it is proposed to amend, as I have said, the name of the Law on Designation and Part-Corruption, as well as the provisions laying down the subject matter of this law, and the provisions forming the ministries and state administrative organisations. Furthermore, the part-round of the Croatian Fire Department is complemented in order for this state administrative organisation or central state office with a special name to carry out all the activities of the State Fire Department, which is why it is necessary to amend the MUP section as well. Provisions prescribed by the Ministry of Interior shall also be complemented by inspections in radiological and nuclear security areas in accordance with the Law amending the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security. The provisions prescribed by the Ministry of Health and the Department of Culture are also amended in such a way as to include the carrying out of matters relating to their work. The entry into force of this Act provides for 2 January 2020, and such derogation from the ordinary period of entry into force is necessary in the light of that provision. 1st and 18th. The law amending and supplementing the Law establishing and delirious the ministries and other bodies of the State administration, based on which the Croatian Fire Community is established, shall enter into force on 1 January 2020, and in order to avoid possible conflict with the deadlines for the adoption of organisational regulations and internal acts prescribed by the Article. 30th century 3rd and 4th of that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178459	Thank you. Is it possible that representatives or committee rapporteurs would like to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening a debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, is not present, dear colleague Miro Bulj, is not present. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178460	Thank you, Vice-President, I welcome the Honorable Mr. Secretary of State, this law harmonizes the Law on the establishment and division of the ministries and other central authorities of the State Administration with the provisions of the State Administration System Act which we voted in this House on 28 June this year, which took effect on 18 July '19. and which will allow the implementation of three reform measures, is the first depolitisation of the state administration and further professionalisation, the second is decentralisation or the approximation of the administration to citizens and rationalisation, the third is the digitisation of office business. I will visit, I will visit here that this is crucial news in the new Law on the State Administration System, which refers to the implementation of the Government's 2016-2020 programme, in the section relating to depoliticalisation and further professionalisation of the state administration. It is this law that created general preconditions for further legislative activities that will ultimately result in the confidence of the state administration and the counties of higher first-degree affairs, the termination of the work of the state administration in the counties, and the termination of the fundamental categorisation of the state administration's body to first-degree and central. It should be pointed out that there is an amendment to the name of the law, meaning the law is amended and reads the Law establishing and detaching the body of the state administration in order to fully comply with the provisions of the Law on the System of State Administration which has been abandoned, as I have said, the categorisation of the state administration's first-degree and central bodies, while the authorities of the state administration are shared with the ministries and state administrations including central state offices and state inspectorates. In addition, part of the Croatian Fire Department is complemented in order to ensure that the national administrative organisation, the central state office with a special name, which... We had the opportunity to hear now in the debate on the final proposal of the Fire Department, doing all the work of the State Administration in the field of fire, which is why it is therefore necessary to amend the section of the MUP. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of the Fire Department Act will regulate the fire-fighting system in the jurisdiction of the Croatian fire-fighting community as the bodies of the state administration, which will allow the smooth development of the fire-fighting system, the proposal of state-level documents, strategies and similar more effective training and training of firefighters, more effective inspection of fire-fighting operations and the successful withdrawal of funds from EU funds. A system of command will be established on the basis of which the command verticals at national and local level will be more closely linked, which will positively affect the efficiency of the fire system during emergency interventions, coastal fires, floods and the like where firepower from several local and regional units participate. This Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing and delirious the ministries and other bodies of the State administration has been supplemented by Article 3 of the Law in such a way that the Croatian Fire Department is established as a central state office, while Article 18 of the same law in the Law establishing the Law is added to Article 29a, which confirms the part of the Croatian Fire Department in such a way as to carry out administrative and professional tasks relating to fire and other matters which have been placed within its jurisdiction by a special law. Here it is necessary to add that this law takes over the Croatian Fire Department's operations of inspection of fire departments from the part of the MUP. Furthermore, the provisions prescribed by the Ministry of Interior are amended in a way that deletes inspection operations in the field of fire and adds inspections in the field of radiological and nuclear security, in accordance with the Law amending the Radiological Nuclear Safety Act. The provisions prescribed by the Ministry of Health are also in full compliance with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and other bodies of the State Administration. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178461	I thank my colleague Sanader. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178462	Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Sanader and Mrs. Jelkovac, thank you for staying here late to listen to my debate about this law. The law on the formation and detour of ministries and other central state bodies, or as it will already be called, is one of those laws that in fact the parliamentary majority proves to have a parliamentary majority and defines primarily its work, or the work of its administration at times when it has a parliamentary majority. In order to make sense of the Law on the Construction and Part-Circular of Ministries and other central state bodies, the establishment and then the detour of the ministries should be respected first. The organisation was all said by the education minister when she said I quote "the current situation where the system is in complete blockade, it is the result of a game of power between the union and the prime minister", it is about the structure. And the detour was told by all the prime ministers when he wouldn't let them negotiate her detour. Therefore, in order for this law to make sense, it is necessary for people who are head of the ministries to do their job and then, of course, that system to be effective. In the light of this law, it is said that the law is in line with the Law on the System of State Administration, that is correct. This Regulation shall enter into The law on the system of state administration states that ministers as leaders and other body leaders are obliged to implement a defined government policy. A situation in which one head of the state body said, saying he would not implement the government's state policy, a government policy established because it is a power game and that the system is in complete blockade, only makes sense if the body leader resigns afterwards. If the head of the body does not resign, the microphone says and further explains that he will not implement the law and that he will not be placed on anyone's side in countries with a great democratic tradition, the body leader would become a former within the time limit. And in countries with a smaller democratic tradition and an authoritarian regime, it would be a question of whether you would stay free at all, but about that. So in order for this law to function, the government must first work normally to do their job or to be relieved by the prime minister because they have a different opinion and vote against the opinion of one colleague, I think of Minister Zdravko Marić as the four MOST ministers or if ministers are relieved to defend public perception that the government is not corrupt then ministers who say they will not enforce the law should also be replaced. And in fact, in order for the formation and detour of the ministries to make sense, the prime minister should show that he is governed by the laws and laws of the work of his members of the government, rather than subject to the blackmails of one coalition partner, that he will leave the government if a changed minister who does not implement the law, who says he will not implement the law, which he says will not be placed on anyone's side because then neither the formation nor the partial state nor the ministry makes any sense. And that is why colleagues and colleagues, since this law proves that you have a parliamentary majority, we will not support it, you will change it yourself with your parliamentary majority, but the majority will not help you to have the ministries working legally and to form and delirious ministries respected, but unfortunately, in the last year of the mandate, will continue to be guided by the story of calculations, of what it benefits or does not use in the elections, and ultimately we will see how it will all end. I'm glad I had the opportunity to present this before we hand over the recall signatures, but just to see that the emphasis will be on the legality and respect of the legality and dignity of the institutions, which this country must finally get and we expect you to help at least you from the party that you said you thought the minister should resign when she said she didn't want to be placed on whose side, and in the government it's yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178463	I thank my colleague, Bauk. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Administration, Mr. Darko, for explaining the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today. We continue work tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Coast Guard Act, second reading. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. SECURE Interrupted at 22.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-04-0.u178464	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the establishment and division of ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 799. The promoter is the Government and the debate is closed. I stress that Article 252 is in line. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require half the majority of all MPs, therefore 76. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for and 50 against the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration.
