ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135178	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Representatives and gentlemen of the HS, here is the Proposal for a Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. Otherwise, the area of entry, residence and work of foreign nationals in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Foreign Law adopted in 2011. with novelties from 2013, 2017 and 2018 This law is in line with a number of Directives and has become quite comprehensive and unclear for application, so it is proposed that legislation be passed which will apply only to citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and to members of their families, while another regulation will regulate the issue of residence and work of third-country nationals, therefore, as so far as the Foreigning Law. Otherwise, the provisions of the Foreign Law relate to the entry and exit of foreigners from the Republic of Croatia, the visa system, the regulation of working legal status, the provisions relating to family integration, secondary education, study, volunteering, traineeship, and research in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the approval of a special so-called The EU Blue Cards, highly qualified third-country nationals, regulate the status of third-country nationals who have a long-term residence in the Member States of the European Economic Area, as well as specific provisions relating to members of the European Economic Area and members of their families, which is now taking over this bill of law before you. It will therefore apply to all EU Member States, Norway, Lichtenstein, Iceland and the Swiss Confederation, as well as members of the family of Croatian citizens who are citizens of the European Economic Area. The issues to be regulated in more detail by this proposal of the law are, the notion of nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families shall be defined, the conditions for the regulation of temporary and permanent stay of EEA nationals and members of their families shall be laid down, the conditions for the regulation, suspension of temporary and permanent stay shall be laid down, the application of residence and residence shall be laid down, the procedure for replacing the loss or residence card for all EEA Member States and members of their families, the conditions for the termination of the legal stay shall be laid down, so the members of the EEA and the family, the restriction of movement, accommodation in the reception centre and forced distance from the Republic of Croatia when conditions are obtained. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 2. Council Directive of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and members of their families to freedom of movement and stay in the territory of a Member State, members of the family shall be defined, while they shall be Article. 3. Determined rights holders of which the host Member State is a Member State, means, in this case, the Republic of Croatia makes it easier to enter and stay in accordance with national legislation. Since family law regulates marriage and the extramarital union of women and men. 4. Bills are defined by family members, and it is prescribed that temporary stay can be approved for the purpose of family integration. In view of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, which regulates the life partnership of persons of the same sex, The 21st draft law stipulates that temporary stay can also be approved for the purpose of the life partnership. Third-country nationals who have been granted a temporary stay for the purpose of life partnership shall have the same rights defined by the proposal for this law, as well as third-country nationals who have been granted temporary stay for the purpose of family integration, e.g. the possibility of working in the Republic of Croatia without the permit to stay and work, retaining the right in the event of the death of the person they have associated with, etc. And finally, despite the great efforts made in the negotiations of the European Commission and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the British Parliament has not confirmed the agreed agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, and as you all know, the scenario of the unregulated exit of the United Kingdom is becoming more and more certain. One of the most important issues in the case of exiting the United Kingdom from the EU without an agreement is the issue of regulating the residence status of their citizens who, on the day of their exit from the EU, have the application of a temporary or permanent stay or issued residence card in accordance with the existing Act on the Sites in order to continue to allow them to stay and work in the Republic of Croatia uninterrupted and to facilitate the handling of the negative consequences of unregulated exit from the EU. According to records, which are currently in charge of the MUP in the Republic of Croatia, 653 are currently a citizen of the European United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, of which 356 persons have a temporary stay and 297 permanent stay. The proposal for this law, in the transitional and final provisions, stipulates that these persons will retain a temporary or permanent stay that they will have at the time of the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU and that the obligation to issue, within a certain period of one year, new permits to stay in accordance with a special regulation governing the stay of third-country nationals is prescribed. The proposed provisions would allow the retention of existing residence status, the right to work and the right to family integration and time limits for the replacement of existing residence cards are laid down in Article 75 or Article 81 of the Law, which provides for those provisions to enter into force on the day of the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU without an withdrawal agreement. So there's a regulated so-called. the unregulated exit, in the case of an orderly exit, provisions of the agreement between the European Commission and the United Kingdom will be applied. The full transposition of the directive into Croatian legislation will take place by means of the Regulation on how to lay down the conditions for entry and stay in the Republic of Croatia of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families and the Regulation on the treatment of nationals of the EEA Member States and members of their families to be adopted by the basis of the provisions of this law. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, here is a total of 7.668 persons in Croatia who have a temporary stay as citizens of the European Economic Area, and a permanent stay has 6,122 so a total of 1 9 people in the European Economic Area and members of their families has a regulated stay in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135179	We have two replicas, the first colleague, Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135180	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Katic, I have listened to your report on the basis of the bill's proposal, it is quite clear that about 600, 700 citizens, citizens of the United Kingdom, and when the UK comes out of EU membership should be requested here after a year of residence permit. However, what I want to ask you, what I want to comment on the Croatian public very little knows at all about what is going on with Brexit, the public media is getting the impression, the state television broadcasts the retailes as if the British were in a state of incompetence when they decided to come out. First of all, Britain has made such a decision because it knows what is coming in the coming years and decades with regard to large migrations from Africa, Asia, it wants to be protected. And on the other hand, they see that in an economic sense, Germany has possessed space, so it has its interests above all. Why are you doing this? speak weakly and do not give, do not give real information and truths? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135181	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135182	Dear Mr. Representative, I would like to speak in the area of the MUP, this ministry is trying and I believe it manages to keep migration under control, invests a lot in safeguarding the state border, while at the same time respecting all international and European regulations of course and national regulations concerning the approval of international protection to persons at risk in the countries of origin. At the same time in recent weeks and months, activities are being carried out to allow the citizens of the United Kingdom and our citizens in the United Kingdom to maintain their rights if an unsettled exit occurs. We, like the MUP on our websites and in public media, have informed citizens of the United Kingdom who have rights, which retain rights and how they must further regulate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135183	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135184	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I have a question for you. For the purposes of this proposal, Article 26 also states that marriage is beneficial. Personally, I don't think it's the happiest thing for the police to question all these cases, so the case is, marriage mates don't carry out the obligations that arise from marriage. My question is quite clear, I don't know if you said that information in the opening statement. How many cases have there actually been in which the police have determined such marriages for the benefit? According to some data that are older, for example in Osijek-Baranja County in 15 years, I don't know any 7 cases of such marriages. How realistic this is, in fact, and do you think that this provision should be regulated by family law, and that this law only refers to family law, because I think that police go to other people's beds to look for is not the happiest solution. That's my personal opinion. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135185	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135186	Dear Mr. Representative, there's almost identical provision now in the Foreign Law, she's here, she's been in our law for 15 years and she makes sense to prevent getting a stay based on a fake let's say marriage. This marriage, of course, is regulated before a parent or in church form, but its primary purpose is to regulate the stay of one of the persons entering that marriage. So these are listed here, and in line with the specific European regulation of the EU acquis, which are cases, which point to the possible existence of marriage for the benefit. There weren't a lot of cases like these, I can't tell you the exact number right now. But as our country enters the EU, since 5 years ago, that number has been increasing slightly. And there is, of course, the danger of being bigger. That's why that provision is in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135187	Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. If not, then we will go to the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, dear colleague Petar Škoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135188	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, right at the beginning, we saw practically and reports from the parent committees, that in this bill, no excessive importance and attention was given, because it practically regulates one area that needs to be regulated. Here is the Committee on National Security, unanimously accepted by all members. So far, so far, the area of entry, residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by the Foreigning Law, which applies from 2012 which has been amended and completed in 2013, 2017 and I'18. The law prescribed the conditions for entry, stay and work of third-country nationals and citizens of members of the European Economic Area and members of their families. And since it is in the Foreigning Law that third-country nationals, as well as citizens of the European Economic Area, the question is, therefore, what is being passed with this law, why are we bringing it? So we bring in for one simple reason, which the existing law has become too general for application, and the bill will single out the part that applies only to the citizens of the European Economic Area and their families. While all the remaining matter will continue to be governed by the Foreign Law. Therefore, the provisions of the law on citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families will apply to all EU Member States, as well as to Norway, Lichtenstein, Iceland and the Swiss Confederation, which is for members of the family of Croatian citizens, as the State Secretary, who are nationals of those countries, has also stressed. The adoption of this law will allow for the regulation of the stay of citizens and members of their families, therefore, in accordance with the Council of Europe directives, the issues which have been regulated for the Member States of the European Economic Area, the State Secretary, so that I would not particularly repeat them here from the concepts of citizens, the definition of citizens, to the regulation, regulation and temporary stay and permanent stay until the termination of temporary and permanent stay, as well as the provision of residence and residence, as well as the procedure for replacing the loss and carrying of a residence card, as well as for defining the conditions, for ending legal residence. Article 2 of the Council of Europe Directive therefore defines who are family members, who are rightholders whose Member State, host, makes it easier to enter and stay in accordance with national legislation and which do not fall under the category of family members referred to in Article 2 of the Directive. Also, here we have heard that this bill is prescribed and that temporary stay, which can be approved for the purpose of family integration, as well as the definition of marriage, the extramarital community, women and men, can therefore also be approved, taking into account the Life Partnership Act. So it is prescribed that temporary stay can also be approved for the purpose of the life partnership. So, here are the problems mentioned, relating to Brexit, concerning the United Kingdom, and what we will practically regulate, in essence, the full transposition of this directive into Croatian legislation, will be subject to the regulation on how to determine the conditions for entry and exit and stay in the Republic of Croatia of the European Economic Area and members of their families and the rules on the treatment of the citizens of the Member States, which will be adopted immediately after adoption of this law. It is mentioned that this law will not cost us anything further, it will not be necessary to approve other funds, and we have said which narrow area will define. Also, through a public debate, we saw that there were no objections, but we had 3 essentially questions from the Attorney General's Office, the Resorship Ministry answered all these questions very well, and in this sense, here is the sequence of things that we support in the name of the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135189	The second club is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA and esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135190	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are often asked, what is the EU's alternative, that is, to claim that there is no alternative. However, we have an example of the European economic area and it is clear that many countries in Europe, such as Switzerland and Norway and Iceland, are part of this European economic area and are not members of the EU at the same time. What is the European economic, i.e., area makes it possible? It allows contracts to be concluded, such as free movement, people, to address the issue of residence, so citizens from EU countries can work in these countries and citizens of those countries can work in the EU. Why am I saying that? Because people think that if you just happen to get out of the EU, you won't be able to work outside for example anymore. However, the fact is that these non-EU countries can work in the EU without a problem and vice versa. But what is the difference between Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Croatia? That's the important thing. The difference is that these countries that I have listed have not given their legislation to the EU, so Iceland can create its monetary policy, Iceland can devalue its currency if it wants to abolish the currency clause without a problem, Switzerland too. So the Swiss currency is not tied to the euro in the sense that the euro would forcefully determine what its rate would be. It means the situation that Switzerland has its monetary policy, has its foreign policy and has its own internal policy because it determines the things it wants in the referendum. However, EU members do not have that right. What we're trying to say is that we are asking from the Living Wall for Croatia to leave the EU so that they can have their own policy. Croatia cannot run its policy in the EU. If the EU says you're going to impose sanctions on Russia, we will introduce them no matter what we want, if the EU says you have to allow the sale of glyphosate, so the herbicides that, according to US verdicts, are such that cause cancer, we have to allow it, we can't say it now, but we wouldn't. Imagine, although one after another rulings in the United States are against Monsanto and who are saying one after the other that these glyphosate-based herbicides are toxic, the EU still does not prohibit them. Here's another example, if the EU says we will allow the import of GMO corn from America, Croatia cannot ban it. We just have our hands tied. There are, however, some EU directives that are positive, e.g. the European Living Directive, which says that children and pregnant women are not allowed to be implanted in the fillings of Amalgam fillings or on the basis of living, and that is, for example, a positive thing, but you have an example of Norway which has completely banned live fillings. In other words, if Croatia had reasonable authority, it would ban the whole of livestock fillings because they are known to be toxic for those who install them and for those who are installed. So what's good about the EU is we can accept if we want and we need and we need and I support every positive step but if the EU tells us to listen, you have to facilitate the privatisation of INA, you have to make it easier for the state to lose over it and we don't want it and then the EU says if you don't, we'll punish you, is it? Either the EU is telling us that it would be a good time to retire at 67 years of age or to privatise highways, etc. What am I trying to tell you? That the EU behaves like some dictator who constantly has some demands and demands against Croatia and these demands and requirements are not often good but because the EU is actually us, this Assembly is just a ficus, like Ivo Josipovic. So in this House 2/3 of the laws that we are voting, we have not thought of them at all, but they have come from the EU and they have to be accepted, as they must and must. So why vote, voting is just a form. And if we do not want to live in a system where 2/3 of all laws determines someone else who does not care about our specificities or how in Croatia or what we think about it, it is logical to conclude that if we want to be a sovereign country, that it has to come out of the EU, that Croatia will not be able to simply develop in the EU as it wishes. And I watched a recent contribution, it was on TV, i.e. On YouTube I watched from China, it's about a plateau northwest of Beijing, that plateau because of human action was turned into being in the desert, that malt was nothing there. And when the water fell, the water would not hold on to it at all, but would just pour itself into these tributaries of the so-called. The yellow rivers yellow from that country that would erod and actually the people lived in poverty, the vegetation was nothing. And then the scientists came and they said look at the people, the way you use the land is to blame, you have to stop letting cattle out of the open pasture because cattle and what little vegetation there is, you have to give nature time to recover. And you need trees planted, etc. People then began to turn the slopes into terraces, they started planting trees and various other agricultural cultures, and now it's all green and it's all that, you can't just believe what transformation landscapes have taken place and American filmmaker John... He made a documentary about it phenomenal and explained that in the same way deserts in Ethiopia could change and deserts in Jordan, simply that only another way to exploit the country and that people would be better off and that the revenues of these people had grown two to three times very quickly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all it had to do was change the state of consciousness. And what's important, when they invited these villagers to work on that desert transformation into an oasis, they said to them, you'll be the one who'll take advantage of that country and then they agreed and they said okay, we'll give our work, we'll give our effort and we'll change our way of thinking. But what people think about the EU, they think about it this way, we don't have to change our way of thinking, we don't have to change the way we manage our country, no, the solution is that we submit to someone else's government and we're going to continue everything the way we did. So imagine that, let's say, these residents, that plateau in China, that they said, look, we're not going to change our habits, we're not going to do our country in any other way now, we're not going to change our behavior, but we're just going to leave the government over our province, I don't know Mongolia, America, to whom they're going to solve our problems, and they're going to care more about solving them than they are about us. What a delusion. Well, clearly, it's not about who runs the country, it's about how it's managed. If we manage the same or worse way in the EU, we can put Croatia under Hungarian, Austrian, German control, American, Canadian, non-essential, but if we do not change our behaviour, if we do not change our patterns we will not solve our problems in the country. And the foreigners will solve them even less, so what does a German care about the issue of emigration in Croatia, so he is happy that his workers are coming from Croatia. What, so he's not going to say you have to stop it, so let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's just act like we don't understand it. And that is why I want to tell you that the European economic area is an ideal way to regulate our relations with other EU countries. So we can have trade agreements, we can have eased meaning labour exchange, we can make whatever contracts with the EU with an emphasis on one thing, if we want and today we can't, today we can't. Today, the EU sets out 2/3 of our laws. So imagine if they come to Switzerland from Brussels and say, "What's wrong with your laws?" We'll give you some other laws, and people don't want them. Well, they'd say if you were normal. In Croatia, however, when such an offer appeared, our servant government accepted it by hand. And why is that? Well, because it simply shifts responsibility to others, then it says, no, so we're not to blame for the condition in the shipyards. As no, no, it's not the state's fault but as the EU, it's looking for something and it's not looking for this. What kind of EU man of God? Well, you gave money to the shipyards for billions and you didn't watch it go away. So how can you treat your property so irresponsiblely? And then, imagine these shipbuilding workers might have thought the same thing, see when we join the EU as then I don't know what's going to work better. The EU has yet to say, the EU has not even questioned whether subsidies are being spent properly or not but simply said there is nothing to support shipbuilding in Croatia. And when you have a government that doesn't care, I don't blame the Uljanic administration at all, so here's if you believe me. Why? Because they did what the one who gave them the money allowed them to do. What do they care, what, it's not their money. But, I mean, it's more of a state responsibility than the Uljanic administration, but the state acted like the way the Uljanic administration spends state money, or taxpayers' money has nothing to do with them, like it's a matter of administration. So how's the management thing if it's your money? And as the entire control system is missing, you can see that it just happened again the same thing that happened in Agrokor, so only when there was a collapse, only then suddenly the DORH sniffs and speaks heard there could be anything there. So the DORH is also responsible. What has the DORH been doing all these years? So are the problems at the shipyard since 9th of last year or are they the problems that have been there for years? If the problems are there for years, what has the DORH been waiting for all this time? It's a question that every one of us has to ask. And when you have a DORH who should be dealing with such things not to do such things but to investigate the one Anna Butcevic, what does she do, she self-help guru, the police are dealing with Ana Bučević, here it is to you, it is the focus of our judicial repressive system and no, they are not interested in Uljanik. How come they don't care about the Oil Man? It's the same thing in Agrokor. And when you have a judiciary that doesn't work, when you have a state that doesn't care, and then this administration just came in like sugar at the end, Management, what the hell, man made himself a villa, what does he care about the workers? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the worst part is I believe that many oil workers in the elections supported this same policy that brought this system, or this administration to power that didn't care about the way the shipbuilding money is managed, etc. And here I am asking workers of all shipyards, so how will the EU help you? Do you think anyone cares more about the shipyard than you and your country? What do you think's in Brussels that gives a shit about your jobs? They don't give a shit about the Oil Man. People smart in the head, we must have our own state, no one will solve problems in Croatia except ourselves. And I am saying a solution to the question of the free movement of the workforce and this contract if we want to have a trade, we can achieve them all through the European economic area. So we don't have to be in the EU to have the free movement of the workforce and we can keep our country's freedom. Right now, we're not free, and you see for yourself how the country and the EU are managed, you see, and it's not going to change for itself. Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135191	We are now going to the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135192	My colleagues and colleagues. Regarding this law, and on the committee itself, as my colleague Skoric said, there were no specific remarks, so I will look only at the part relating to the individual articles and their provisions on behalf of the SDP Club in a relatively short statement. It's about first reading, so I would also suggest to the promoter that this situation, related to Brexit, is, of course, reflected in us, given the article. 81st, but that's the 75th. This law only takes effect when the UK and Northern Ireland leave the EU. It's a strange provision for me that could lead to legal uncertainty, and in some ways I think it needs to be fixed. As far as art is concerned. In 76, this law states that it will not apply at the internal border of the Republic of Croatia, following the entry into force of the Schengen Implementation Agreement in the Republic of Croatia. You have informed us here in the debate several weeks ago that Croatia will meet the technical evaluation for entering Schengen space by the end of 2018, which is of course not true. You left this room, you didn't answer that question because in 2018 it was then a year that had already passed. It would be good to know how far it goes, that is, where we have come in the matter of achieving national interest in entering the Schengen area, and then we could be able to work out the things that are prescribed by this law. Also, I would like to comment on this part when you bring to the law which has 81 articles, and in fact it is a reason to be adopted for the reason that there was no space in the current Foreigning Act or could not cover everything necessary for the regulation of citizens of the European Economic Area. I would, above all, say that it is logical that something like this must be done, but this should not be justified by the fact that our Law on Foreigners, which should have regulated these things, actually leaves out a lot of situations in which, as we could hear in the previous debate, we are not actually aware that we are a member of a community in which things are regulated and it is incorrect that two-thirds of the laws are passed in the EU Parliament. It is true that directives are being adopted and that, then, specific application is regulated by national parliaments. The lack of reaction to the views of the Advocate General is not acceptable to me. Namely, the answers given here are completely contrary to the situation in which these repressive provisions, which have been mentioned and to which they have been noted, because the basis of the EU's story is freedom of movement of people. The moment you have the variant that the article is regulated that 8 days can be held at the border, i.e. the situation for someone who is a member, i.e. a citizen of the European Economic Area and thus is prevented from entering the Republic of Croatia and is then said to be able to launch an administrative dispute against a solution to refuse entry. In fact, that fact is very clear. Namely, he can't, of course, do it while he's in, I'm going to call it a decimal or a temporary detect, and the truth is that citizens of European economic space should have the same provisions as, of course, all those other foreigners. He'd also object in that variant of one, so I think it's an ignoring relationship with those provisions that just... The Ombudsman states regularly that the laws adopted in the MUP are not to be accepted; I do not think that it is a good practice because it has not written anything which is basically the EU itself related to the freedom of movement of people in the European Economic Area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to emphasise in this debate that, given that the first reading, I think it would be very good by the promoters, that this situation with the counseling is being implemented so far, it does it much better, I think it would be useful, it would never be bad to hear those who think, that I can make remarks and these deadlines and systems as it is done, not only with this, but also with other laws, it's not good. I would say, on my part, that at this point, I can't say we support this law, there's no reason to be against this law, but we will insist that the objections made by the Attorney General be respected. On the other hand, to make these arguments clear until the second reading on everything I just spoke to the Brexit situation and the situation concerning articles that regulate it will only take effect when the UK and Northern Ireland leave the EU. I'd stop at this point, I wouldn't comment further on the law. The only thing I think is good, Mr. President, I would ask you, when someone isn't holding on to the subject, I haven't been up for the Rules of Procedure, it's nice to listen to the story about China, too, we could hear about Mao Ce-tung and his policy of deep oration, but when someone isn't holding on to the subject, then I would ask you to warn him and that this part of the story speaks about what it is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135193	Thank you, colleague Ostojić. I agree with you in principle, but it's very difficult to cut off sometimes because then the advocate comes back on the subject and says he was just trying to create a parable, but I can agree and invite representatives and advocates to stick to the subject. Let's go to an individual debate now, first of all, the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135194	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, so we are talking in some way today about the EU's alternative, and we should also include this yesterday's vote in the European Parliament and see what it says in this law because we are talking about the European Economic Area today. The European Economic Area is an association that fully covers EU territory, however, and some non-EU countries, and this is very interesting. So in this European area other than EU members there are also Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Lichtenstein. And it should be noted that yesterday, while it was voted on Brexit that one of the voting points was for Britain to replace the EU with the European Economic Area, it was not accepted, but it is important to note that it is possible to replace the EU with the European Economic Area, because in the European Economic Area, you are a defacto member of the EU, but you do not have to formally accept the decisions of the European Commission and of European bureaucracy and this is an excellent model of cooperation that we, too, are seeking from the Living Wall. So, it's important to say, that's what some politicians fear the public, and since it's not well-informed enough to buy these spins, that if you're not an EU member, then you're either at North Korea level or I don't know Albania's Enver Hodge, this complete isolation from the whole world, not just from Europe. Which is not true. Members of the European Economic Area confirming this agreement which is now before us have the right, therefore, to the customs union, first their citizens to work within the EU, have the right to use the European gentlemen's funds, to use the European funds, have the right to cross the border as well as all other EU citizens. So please give me once you go across the border, so that is the border with Slovenia you have a clear ramp on which it says that citizens of the EU and the EEA or European Economic Area cross here, which means that they are completely equal in rights. Schengen also has nothing to do with the EU, Schengen is a separate agreement in which all members of the European Economic Area are again and what is interesting is even some non-member countries, let's say I don't know Monaco, San Marino, the Vatican are in Schengen and they don't have any Schengen agreements. As you live in the countries of the European Economic Area compared to the EU, unfortunately for you, EU Eurofil lovers live better than in the EU. In Iceland, wages are nominally higher than in Germany, Iceland has refused to join the EU only because of fishing quotas and for nothing else. Norwegians are officially the luckiest people in the world. The Swiss are officially the healthiest people in the world. Lichtenstein has more income per capita than EU members, there is no unemployed population at all, there is full employment. So, simply this statistics are inexorable, and they don't have to like us at the same time, they don't have GMOs, they don't have to have glyphosates, they don't have to have EUR-o that don't want Croatian citizens practically acclaiming, they don't have to concession water to keep it as public good, they don't have to sell agricultural land to foreigners, they don't have to introduce real estate taxes. That's not necessary. Have we increased or reduced corruption since we joined the EU, Mr. Secretary of State? Magnified, I didn't say that's official statistics, too. What we are discussing here in the assembly, we are discussing decisions by the European Commission called regulations and directives. What this regulation is, the regulation is literally translated from one language to another, so we can't change the point, not the decimal, not the little letter, let alone the content. So what's going on is I'm discussing something that you can't even change what's carved into stone. The Directive on the Directive can only be discussed in a way that you can discuss how to achieve the objective, but your objective is already predetermined, so you cannot change the objective. It's a waste of time again. They're with forgiveness of stupidity. And since this House is not discussing anything logically that there are no MPs, who is interested in discussing something that doesn't make any sense that's been pre-arranged? What kind of parliament is this, the European Parliament, that a representative cannot propose a law? In the history of mankind, there was no parliament that could not propose laws. And such is the European Parliament. And then what does it matter? It is important to arrest a group of quasielite in Croatia, which, of which, I do not know, pays how much we read up to 20,000 euros, which make their salary more important than Croatia, more important than Croatia. What Commissioner Maletic said, when she was offered the post of Deputy Prime Minister, I don't care. She doesn't care. What Minister Pejcinović Bruic said, more importantly, to be a secretary in Brussels or Croatian Foreign Minister. It's more important to be a secretary in Brussels. That's more important to her. What did Tony's Picula say when he was told to be president of the SDP? I'll be president of Brussels. That's how these people look at you and our Croatia. They look at their interests, bureaucratic interests, not the interests of this people. Finally, why the EU alternative would not be an independent and free Croatia. Now the newspaper is writing today, Europe has banned plastic bags from 2021, a genius Europe, and we're all going to our knees before Europe right now. So who's stopping us from banning plastic bags today? There's a ban? No, here, today is 28.3. We ban plastic bags. What do I need Junker to ban my plastic bags? Let's go, we've got the President of Parliament, we've got Parliamentarians, we can ban those bags by 4:00 this afternoon. No, we admire the Europeans, how genius you are, taking care of nature. So I really don't see the point of being in the EU, if we have an alternative, here's an alternative in the European economic space, there's another alternative, we have an EFTA Free Trade Agreement, it was also in the British Parliament yesterday. Tell me, why do these British want to leave the EU, the cradle of democracy in the first place? Why do they want to leave if it's so good? What they've done, they've eaten crazy mushrooms or maybe they think it's good for them. Why do we give 75% of the customs we charge at our border and send to Brussels? It is a policy that benefits Croatian citizens. Why are we giving part of the VAT in Brussels? Why do we have to give part of the state reserve in Brussels? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135195	We have a replica of a respected colleague, Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135196	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238 of his fellow MP, speaks of which is not the subject of the debate, so more than 2/3 of his presentation was completely out of the context of the subject, so in this sense the Rules of Procedure was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135197	So, like this, Mr. MP talks about the EU, in a way that he refuses and does not accept it. So it's even questioning the law we're discussing today. I believe it is legitimate and that he has the right to do so, regardless of what he does not speak directly about the subject, which today is on the agenda. So, the one who fundamentally disagrees with that, he can talk about why he disagrees and that, I find it hard to estimate that this is about hurting the Rules of Procedure. So let's move on, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135198	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, this law, as previously said, I think it is a good solution, because otherwise, stay, work, entry, exit of foreigners from the Republic of Croatia, is already covered by the Foreign Law, but it has become too comprehensive and should therefore have a special law for citizens who come from a member of the European Economic Area. And in that regard, it seems to me that it is good that the government today proposes such a legislative proposal. We have heard certain remarks, as regards the expulsion or refusal of the entry of some citizens coming from the countries of the European Economic Area. It seems to me that these criticisms at the expense of this proposal are not in place, however, that Croatian citizens want us to give to the Croatian police, a good legislative framework, which will, of course, set the criteria, but that one criterion, indeed, is the safety of the Republic of Croatia, the safety of Croatian citizens, that no one can enter and that there is then, on the basis of such a legislative framework, the Croatian police and the right to keep someone from entering the Republic or if they need to even chase someone from the Republic. If we narrowed down such a legislative framework, we would simply tie their hands to the Croatian police to protect the safety of Croatian citizens, to protect the safety of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why I think, by respecting, of course, the position which has the legitimate right to state and the Advocate General, I see that it also has the support of the SDP, however, I believe that it is absolutely not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that this is not what Croatian citizens are asking us as legislators to tie our hands to the Croatian police. Of course, Croatian police must comply with certain rules, according to certain criteria, and this law makes it clear. But we cannot tie our hands to the Croatian police, however, we must give it support, so that it can effectively defend, protect the safety of Croatian citizens, the safety of the Republic of Croatia and in this respect, I think give this proposal, this law is good. We have heard so far in the debate on European economic space that this is an alternative to EU membership or that Croatia should leave the EU and be part of the European economic space. First of all, Croatia is a member of the European economic space by being an EU member. So, get out of the EU, for example. As the UK now wants to do, it would mean getting out of the European economic space. Then you should get into some other association like this. The EFTA so that it could be in a European economic space but it is not exactly as presented. Therefore, members of the European Economic Area who are not members of the EU such as Norway, for some specific reasons we know what resources Norway has and do not, of course, want to submit them to a common EU policy, but Norway must, as a member of the European Economic Area and not an EU member, pay membership, contribute to the European budget and cannot decide on EU law. However, such laws must be observed as soon as it is a member of the European Economic Area but is not an EU member, it must respect both the regulations and the EU's legislative framework. Moreover, it must even be subject to EU court decisions, so it must accept the jurisdiction of the EU court and it has no influence on it or on the choice of judges, cannot participate in the creation of EU law and must comply with EU law, so what is happening to some concrete countries because of very specific situations, they have decided. But here I assure you, unfortunately for Croatia, the option to get out of the EU is not to be like Norway or Switzerland, but to be like Serbia today. It was an alternative and that is, if you want to get out of the EU, what is waiting for us. If I went back to this particular law, that it wouldn't be there right now if we'd left that topic, what would that mean? It would mean that the so-called regulation would apply to Croatian citizens. ETIAS, therefore, must Croatian citizens each time, e.g. My neighbors in Samobor, every time they cross the border on Bregani, go to Slovenia, they should announce themselves and pay a 2021 fee. So all citizens, for example, will have to do so. Serbia or Montenegro or BiH, which do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, do since 2021, must be announced sooner, they have no visas but will have to be announced sooner when they cross the EU border, onlinely seeking a permit that can, of course, be rejected and have to pay the fee. So that's what we want for Croatian citizens? So it is not to strengthen the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia but to isolate the Republic of Croatia. Isolate Croatian citizens. Is that in the interest of the Republic of Croatia? Is that how we strengthen our statehood? No, I don't. Absolutely not. Therefore, exiting the EU would mean actually punishing Croatian citizens here in this particular way, not to speak now about all other elements, but when we talk about this law, this topic, we would not be able to discuss today a law that regulates the entry, stay, exit of citizens of European economic space, or the state of European economic space in the Republic of Croatia, but rather talk about how Croatian citizens have obstacles, we would have to pay each time they cross the EU border, we would have to seek permission online to cross that border. This is definitely not in the interest of Croatian citizens, and I think that in this very context, we must show it to the Croatian public. I say as far as this law is concerned, what could have been heard from the left hand side of this assembly as an objection, which is perhaps too strict in how it treats the possibility of getting some foreigners out of the Republic of Croatia or to prevent them from entering, I think, on the contrary, and to conclude that this law is good, it is a legislative framework for the Croatian police to, on the basis of concrete criteria of course, whether they can protect the safety of Croatian citizens and the safety of the Republic, and this must be a priority for every Croatian institution and we as a Croatian Parliament must enable the Croatian police to do such a job effectively and not to tie their hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135199	We have four replicas, first fellow Glasnović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135200	Dear colleagues, I'm listening to this and I'm freaking out listening to this whole thing, it's the EU, what are we complaining about? And what I've been saying for a year now is that these laws have been applied selectively, for example. The law on the return of property, the law on decommunisation. Just a dead letter on paper. Let's look up in Poland where she cleaned the judiciary of former personnel, Poland works, she's a sovereign state. It's now in the opposite direction that came here, that, all the heads went back to the same places. Also, what else do we have? Graduation, Poland cleaned up diplomacy. Whoever finished the diplomatic school in Moscow was cleaned up, he's gone, here's Miss Pusic here won't hear it, it's not good for her. So, our problem is anthropologically in the heads, who's going to make a state with the Balkans? What kind of Norway, Sweden? There's a standard tax-free procedure, it's a national sport and... A blue envelope. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Enough whining.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135201	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135202	So, fellow Glasnovic, you mentioned what Poland and Poland are doing is an EU member and exists in Poland, regardless of the difference between the ruling and the opposition parties, the full consensus that they want to stay in the EU because they have been able to use that EU membership to strengthen their national positions. Never in the last 100 and a few years have Poland been as influential in Europe as it may have become after joining the EU. So it is up to us, of course, that we know how to use these potentials, but it is not an alternative to coming out of the EU, as well as the Poles are not thinking about it, but to use all the instruments we have to strengthen our national positions and to make life as good as possible for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135203	Second replica, colleague Babic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135204	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, dear colleague Stier. Surely, the Croatian government has in advance prevented the adoption of this law of certain things that are related to Brexit, but Brexit and the political saga around it have actually created one institutional political and social confusion and in fact complicated an entire situation in the EU itself in the UK and Sj space. Ireland. Since we are also thinking about those citizens, those 653 who are in the Republic of Croatia, how do you say that will reflect on our citizens who are in the UK and Sj. Ireland?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135205	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135206	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, buddy, you mentioned that it was necessary and in this law to consider this situation with the UK. That is what is done, I think it is well regulated, in the same way expected, as regards reciprocity as well as protected Croatian citizens in the UK. We will see what will be the final decision, or the outcome of this whole situation. If I can also relate to this previous question that we have opened, for example ETIAS, Great Britain is already on the ETIAS list. If it comes out of the EU, it won't be in European economic space, and the British will have to, for example, have that fee and a previous announcement if they enter a Member State of the EU. That's one of the problems that, here, the UK will face if there's such a gap.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135207	Now it's Comrade Ostojić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135208	Dear fellow Stier, I will quote, a citizen of the European Economic Area cannot be refused entry if he proves in any way that he is a citizen of the EPG, regardless of his lack of identity. This is the response of the MUP, so what is already set out in other laws and situations that we have is quite, in my opinion, regulated. I'm talking about something else, the minister is going to pass the rule book, and in the situation of eight days of being held at the border crossing, which is a comment by the Attorney General, that's something I was talking about. The situation in which he's being held, not 24, not 48, but up to 8 days in which status is he? Whether he was deprived of his freedom or a solution was made, it was my story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135209	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135210	Yes, thank you, colleague, for that question. With this law, we, as HS, are giving a legislative framework which, of course, will later also have to be specified by the Minister of Sublaws. But I think that such a legal framework is good in terms of giving space to the MUP, of course, and then later in the implementation of the Croatian police, that it can protect Croatian citizens, that it can protect the security of the Republic of Croatia. Going to narrow that space down by my conviction means too much to tie your hands to the Croatian police. That's why we have to have a legislative framework like this that allows the police to effectively do this job to protect the security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135211	And the final replica of the presentation of fellow Stier, colleague Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Stier, you've spent a lot of words on security and on allowing the police to do their job. I don't see a problem in that and where luck comes from when as many citizens from space, the European economic space comes to the Republic of Croatia. Our problem is that people are leaving Croatia. Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of our citizens have gone to other countries, which is what Croatia is destroying and that we do not attract people to come to Croatia at all. That's the problem with the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, such security problems, as you say, we have or will have very little in the future because people do not want to come to Croatia at all, since they do not have a perspective here. So we have to create a perspective that people don't leave and start wanting to come to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135213	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135214	One of the assumptions is that we keep those good things that we have, which is exactly the safety of our citizens. And that's exactly why this law is needed. Here, if you will, I am one of those who came to the Republic of Croatia, who chose to come to the Republic of Croatia. And live here. And one of the great advantages of the Republic of Croatia, day and day, regardless of all problems, and we certainly have many, but it is also security in the Republic of Croatia. I lived outside, I lived in Brussels, and you don't have that sense of security. Therefore, we must protect this, it is also important for tourism, but it is important for the everyday lives of our citizens. And we must, of course, allow the Croatian police to protect that security of our citizens and that is why, my support for this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135215	Now we're going to the next individual exhibition, that's dear colleague Miro Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We heard what our colleague Petar Škorić said on behalf of the club, as well as fellow Stier on this Law on Citizens, is a member of the European Economic Area. I think it's a very elegant model to address the issue of the citizens of Great Britain and S. Ireland after the country's exit from the EU. Let's face it, it's very elegantly solved by this bill, and we also know that our citizens in the UK and Northern Ireland, after a very certain exit from the EU, will also be covered by an agreement that exists. the law that exists in the UK concerning citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area. So we, in this way, have offered it very elegantly, as a solution, I believe that without any major opposition in the Croatian Parliament and adopt it as a solution, all EU Member States have offered a solution for the citizens of Great Britain, Northern Ireland on their territory. All the Member States, and what's he talking about? This suggests, however, that the EU, however hit, is in the media, especially today, in these times, fierce competition on the world market, it still works. The institutions are functioning. And all Member States have been encouraged to offer a solution in time for the citizens of Great Britain in their countries, and then there will be a clear solution for us Croats in Great Britain, as well as for all other citizens of the EU Member States in the United Kingdom itself. That's the reason, and that's what this is about, I'm going to repeat, that there's one resistance of institutions and there's one mechanism of decision-making, which still increases certainty and predictability in the functioning of social and political life. We will not be able to influence here from Croatia, what will eventually happen in the UK, in which way it will most likely leave the EU, but one thing we did, regardless of what we thought about this move in the UK were we in Croatia sympathisers or not, such behaviour, I think most of us here in Croatia would be for the UK to stay in the EU, that act has shown that Europe exists. That's what he said... The Europeans exist and now we see it based on this act in the UK. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are responding and we see that there is one structured policy in the Member States and in the EU institutions themselves. And that's why we can be satisfied, because we'll be able to protect ourselves better together. How is the status of UK citizens in Croatia resolved, how is this solved in Germany? Well, there are differences, and that's the EU's fortune again. The German government passed the regulation, Estonia passed a special law. I see the Spanish are doing the same thing in a third way again. The French are solving again with a valid regulation, each in their own way. And it speaks of this diversity, and it says that we still have one autonomy in the EU. I've heard stories about how many laws were passed under the directive and regulations, so 2/3, 70%. Not about 30% of the laws are passed on average on the basis of impulses from the EU itself, i.e. based on the Directives and regulations to be adopted in the European Parliament and the Council of the EU. In conclusion, this is a good model, an elegant model, how to resolve the security issue for the citizens of Great Britain in the Republic of Croatia itself, we are here in Croatia being hit specifically by Brexit. Our trade exchange is about a tenth of the exchange with Italy or if you want about 12-13% of the exchange with Slovenia. There aren't many Croatian citizens in the UK. We have heard the number for the citizens of Great Britain in Croatia, a little bit more than 600, so we will not be affected by this process of exiting the UK from the EU, but we here in Croatia have shown a solution that is elegant and that will cover these other Member States of the European Economic Area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135217	We have six replicas, first mate Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135218	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Kovac. There are representatives, who are represented in rhetoric as a Living Wall, not as a Living Wall, but as a Chinese wall of Croatian national interests. The question is, is the wrong, 20-year strategy to blame for the 3rd May and Oil or our EU membership, as we have heard? What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135219	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135220	This may be a bit of a bounce from the topic, but I'll say the following, we here in Croatia, i.e. The Croatian government currently has a responsibility to find a solution, specifically for Ulnik. Before this Croatian government, co-responsibility had... Sir, thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Other Croatian governments did so before. The Croatian government, fortunately, is not responsible for what the previous Croatian governments did. Personally, I think we're too late with the restructuring processes, it should have been Mr Maras, don't be smart, it was time to make a decision on restructuring, not to sit nice with GordanMaras.eu and smarten up. Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135221	I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues not to throw it away. Let's go to another replica, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135222	Thank you very much. Independent Representative Miro Kovac, because you seem to have fallen from Mars, you don't know that HDZ has been hitting this country for 28 years. You were surprised, you lived in Germany, you were there ambassador and you didn't follow the domestic political scene, you missed the privatisation, you robbed Sanader, you missed everything, and now you're digging up and saying, here from now on, when HDZ started, that's where we started. This all before HDZ worked, I had nothing to do with it, it may have something to do with President Jandrokovic, who was also with Jadranka Kosor and Ivo Sanader, etc., in close relations. So, don't act like it, HDZ has the biggest responsibility for the problems in Croatia. And how problematic that is, we're talking about Great Britain, if HDZ were in power in Great Britain, they'd be so easy to get out of the EU because there's no responsibility to the voters, it would have been squeezed for and Britain would have been an ex-member a long time ago. As the CNS has moved from opposition to power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135223	Answer, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad Mr. Maras knows the details of my biography, it's a compliment to me, it's an honor to me so you're dealing with my character, my work, it's nice to me, it's feeding me that my, my confidence, my joke aside. Repeat, repeat...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135225	Comrade Maras, I beg you not to come in, you were saying, no one has come in to you, so please, behave yourself, that's all I ask. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135226	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. I'm glad you're praising me. So I repeat, we are currently in favour of this Croatian government which makes important decisions for the concrete Ulnik, and I am convinced that there will be a right to the future and workers of the Uljaniks but also for Croatia itself and for the Croatian industry. What was before, I personally can't and can't answer, and most of my colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament and I'm telling you again, you could have solved it, you were a member of the Croatian government, you didn't solve it, I'm sorry about it, and I'm sorry about Croatia. Thank you very much, and the oil worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135227	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135228	Dear Representative Kovac, the solution HDZ has for Ulnik is so called. Endlösung's final solution and that's what you're going to do with Oil. And as for your claim not to come from the EU 2/3 of the law but one third of the law, so says your colleague Dubravka Shuica, who is in the European Parliament, she's in the Open, on the show, I've listened to her, I've heard her ears say that 2/3 of the laws we vote here come from Brussels. So if you have a problem with that thesis and explain to Mrs. Shuci that she's mistaken. Say, listen, dear Dubravka, it's not true what you're saying, you're misinformation, you're increasing yourself, something for no reason. Oh, no, you don't have to replicate that to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135229	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135230	Thank you very much. So we have here in the Assembly the appropriate mechanisms, there is a professional service of the Croatian Parliament and she could do one study on how much law is passed on the basis of impulses, i.e. A directive and a regulation in Brussels might be a good idea. And now this first thing, Mr. Pernar. We can speak freely in the Parliament and say anything but to mention a word like Endlösung, a final solution, in this context, in this context I find it irresponsible to talk about the words concerning the Holocaust, in this way in the Croatian Parliament deserves a warning, at least a warning, is my personal opinion. So we keep an eye on what we're saying. To speak of the Holocaust, Endlösung about the final solution in this context, nicely please, it is a shame and it is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135231	4. replica of colleague Vlaović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135232	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Kovac, that we need this law, we are a member of the EU and we must protect our space, our citizens and our economy. And I'm glad you said that Croatia has a certain autonomy in lawmaking and some national programme to protect the domestic economy. In the context of getting out of the EU of Great Britain, I asked the prime minister a year ago what our position is and what we do to help our citizens who live in London and other cities of England, which we do to businessmen who export to England and other areas, in which way we will protect our economy even though you said it was a small economic exchange and that we would like it more than we do in HSS, we do not help enough exporters to place the products but we do not have a gnr strategy or help the economies. Perhaps you have knowledge of what the government is doing to prepare our economy for... Great Britain from the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135233	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135234	This solution that is currently being offered is about the status of citizens, Member States of the European Economic Area, and I have said mainly citizens of Great Britain and Northern Ireland are being brought in time and we are not late from other EU Member States who have said this in various ways tried or tried to regulate it. I repeat, we will bring a new framework for the status of Member States, EU Member States and so on to Croatia after the UK exit which is very certain. And as far as I'm concerned... The strategies, look, I said that cooperation is economic, is a tenth of the cooperation with Italy and to what extent this will succeed in the future depends on both our exporters and our economic chamber and our ministries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135235	Thank you. Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135236	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear counterpart Kovac, you say this is a very elegant model and that I am actually joining almost all EU members in this situation regarding Brexit and you say that it... I was talking about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the situation or structural reforms, and that is correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in fact, some will say that with Nigel Farage's policy, Great Britain has made one good decision, and some here say distinguished colleagues from the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, but now it is clear how far these consequences can be far-reached and towards all those people who are in Croatia in those Eurosceptics, it should be clear that when such a decision is made, that it can have far-reaching consequences because we are a member of one Union, the EU. That is what Mr Stier was actually talking about, which would mean for Croatia, a complete, complete isolation that today we are not an EU member and would actually be in that group of countries like Serbia, Montenegro or today BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135237	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135238	Thank you very much. Personally, I have no special fears about the departure of Great Britain from the EU. In fact, the European community was formed without Britain, it only later joined and there was a lot of opposition, and the French were dissatisfied with it, particularly General De Gaulle, he was not a big fan of Great Britain's entry into the EU because he felt that France would lose its significance. A referendum has now been held in the UK and it should be respected that democracy is respected in the UK, to say the referendum has been consulted and we respect the will of the people and therefore we are now making a decision on how to get out of the EU. For us here in Croatia, we have a different way of thinking, we are on the continent, we want to be, most citizens want to be in the EU and I think that this is the right way and to what extent we in Croatia will succeed in making Croatia a competitive and advanced society, depending first row on us here in Croatia, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135239	And the last replica of the exhibition of colleagues of Kovac, a colleague of Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135240	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleague Kovac, I also think it's a shame that England came out, which is coming out and might come out. As a state, we do not have much damage because we did not put ourselves on that market as much as we did in the future, but in the future I think it is a shame because the EU's openness, the openness of England, is so easier for entrepreneurs to enter with their goods and to go in and out, and we are agricultural and tourism and, therefore, I think that despite the fact that the damage is great for Croatia, regardless of the larger market, it is easier to live, however, whoever did not accept it, who did not understand what it means, of course, is opposed to everything and even Europe, because people who are closely bound, who are not engaged in any business, are actually simply politicising and dissipating demagogy as they are now in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135241	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I think it's a shame, too, I just said we'd be able to live without Britain in the EU as well as the countries that founded the European community without the UK, that's all I'm saying. Of course she could be a partner, she has one way of thinking that enriches or enriches the EU, in the field of defence has great abilities and great experience, the way of thinking that is global, but I say, we need to be people who respect democracy and the will of the citizens of Great Britain, the decision has been made, in which way it will be... We do not know it yet, but it is certain that it will leave the EU and then we will have to reorganise within the EU in order to be long-term players of the world on a trade and political basis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135243	This is what we came to an end with the replicas, so let's go to the next individual debate, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135244	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens who watch or listen to us. The topic of today's debate is to regulate the status of citizens in the area of European economic space. Afterwards, in this case, the issue of regulating the status of UK citizens following its exit from the EU is behind this title. We do not have a chance at all to discuss important issues concerning the EU and the situation of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. So I'm going to say right away that this is actually a technical issue regarding the regulation of U.K. citizens' status, the United Kingdom in the territory of Croatia, and this law obviously does not mention only Great Britain, but in a year's time someone else might come out and know immediately how to treat its citizens. What we need to ask ourselves here is why the UK has left the EU, coffee is the consequences of the EU, other countries and in this case Croatia? Here some MPs have objected why some other MPs speak widely, about the wider EU context, because it probably bothers them. And the simple conclusion is that it is precisely such advocates, which are in turn those from the ruling coalition, that there is nothing to discuss about the EU, from there whatever comes as a warrant, as a directive, as a moment from Brussels, it has to be done unspeakably and done. Well, because of this servant relationship of our representatives in Brussels, Croatia is in this position. But let's also talk about the arguments, the party Let's change Croatia that I represent here in the Croatian Parliament, only wants reasoned talks on every problem. No one has ever reported here that the foreign trade of goods and services of the United Kingdom with the world 2 years ago was about 750 billion pounds, you gentlemen probably don't know that by just 1% the greater exchange of goods and services with EU countries, but with non-EU members or to be precise, see how things are. In that year, Great Britain recorded a £86 billion deficit in exchange with the world or with EU countries and only £20 billion in non-EU countries. So 4 times the major deficit has been recorded by the UK with EU member states and the largest absolute deficit from EU countries has been recorded in exchange with Germany and 30 billion pounds. Who, then, is it not clear to whom is one of the most important reasons for the exit of the UK from the EU just because they have not realized their economic interests? So the economy is very clear here, the figures are very clear, irrefutable and we can't improvise. On the other hand, the UK, while in the EU, will soon exit, has never intended to take over the euro as a common currency. They represented the tendency to look and wait, don't take over the common currency because they knew it wouldn't, that there would be big problems, challenges and imagine that Britain had taken over the euro and that now it had to leave the euro zone, and that would be a much bigger drama. This is what is happening now, these are much easier problems and issues of leaving the EU than if it had previously taken over the euro. So there's a message for us in Croatia. If we are in the EU, we are, then we must fight for two things, first of all, for the EU to be a Federation, which will be a Federation of peoples, sovereign peoples and states and secondly, not to take over the euro. Why? Because this meets the criteria, our national ones, and in the future we will not cause problems for other EU members. But you see, there's no such discussion here. Even more so, such statements are considered undesirable. Of those who were either already in the EU structures or represented by the Republic of Croatia, in fact, they never represented us but themselves and the narrow interests of certain stakeholders from Croatia. So, what is the situation of the EU now? Let's go back to the question of citizens, migration, citizenship because this is today's topic that we are talking about and concerns the issue of this bill. The EU is in big trouble in this regard. It has a major demographic decline that threatens its economies further as one Germany will shrink by another 20 million by 20 million by 2050. Every year, it takes about 600 or 700 thousand workers to replace the Germans, those workers who retire, and it can't work. That's why there are big migrations, from where? From the Middle East, North Africa, from the Middle East because there's still only a pool there, big pools of supplies of young labour coming here. The EU, it has been affected by the process of disintegration process and you see, there has never been a plenary debate in this House on the current situation and the future of the EU and the situation of Croatia in it. So, I, Vice President and President of the Parliament, ask you, to organize, put that item on the agenda, don't just turn into listeners of the Brussels administration and bureaucracy, but let's consider all the important issues that are related to it. What's the biggest problem here? The capital at EU level, representatives of capital, they took the idea of the EU as associations of the people, to achieve peace, security, freedom, freedom of movement at the same time, they took it into their own hands and they simply became an EU hegemon and their interests they order whole nations and states. Now, that's the biggest problem the EU hasn't formed as a state, it doesn't have its own Constitution, it's half-formed some project and it's its big weakness. On the other side of the Atlantic, the United States, as they created it, is now moving away from it. China has grown into a world-wide super-force, economic and military, therefore, a brand-new consolidation of economic geopolitical relations in the world, and this EU, as an unfinished political project, is unable to oppose or impose itself as a significant force, it is in a political sense, I will not say a political dwarf, but much smaller than it plays, that economic part of the world with 25% of the world's GDP, but it doesn't play anywhere near that role. In this context, we see that the problems in France, Belgium, Greece, there are a lot of problems in Italy, precisely because the interests of people and states are being ignored. Because capital simply took a key role. Where is Croatia now for a period of three months after its entry into the EU, after 6 years, where is Croatia? When we joined the EU in 2013, we had 61% of the EU average standards, now we are at about 59%. So we stagnated in six years, we're going down, Bulgaria's the only one behind us. Well, in that sense, we have problems. And another important piece of information. The prime minister once every day says exports are growing, everything is going great. Gentlemen, from 2008 to the end of 2017. Croatia exported 102 billion euros in goods and imported 177 billion euros. We have accumulated a deficit in 10 years of 75 billion euros. Such an economic policy has no perspective. In this way, Croatia will never succeed in the EU. Either this concept will be thoroughly redefined in terms of strengthening the role of people in a community called the EU, or this project will not succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135245	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135246	Dear colleagues. The problem is, it's always found, the problem is the cause of everything and the solution to the source. Mr. Lovrinović, you are now, excuse us, with a million data. What is Croatia's problem? The Croatian mental set is more like Greece. Greece after the largest package for a bankrupt country in history, you still have $30 billion of unpaid taxes. That's the problem. And you, Mr. Lovrinović, were part of one system if some other people here and sitting here, where a culture of cheating was introduced, where exams were sold, where false diplomas were sold, and where teachers both showed their sexual organs to students for better these, grades on tests. This is the problem of the Croatian state, it is anthropological and cultural and all this other mere story, when we compare to Norway, England, we are still the Balkan state with the same staff. That's where some people sit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135247	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glasnović, and I would like to ask you to adjust your expression a little bit to this House of Highs. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135248	Thank you, dear colleague Glasnović, I'm sorry, I appreciate you, for your contribution and for your country's defense, but you've got your brother in a lot of trouble here, you're complaining that we're throwing ourselves at arguments, so why should I serve as an economist, you want me to tell you stories here? You attack just don't know who you're attacking, you're accusing. Well, then be specific, brother. ... Well then be complete, we're all born, so you're born in that system, therefore, but let's watch where anyone goes, for which anyone stands, for which system of values, no... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] those who did it in Croatia are sanctioned for it [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So don't let me put it that way and talk nonsense. [[Upadica Brkić: Coliga Glasnović, I ask you nicely, do not interrupt.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135249	Comrade Lovrnivić, I beg you, you are still a university professor, I think that... My colleague Lovrinović, I'm speaking now, you didn't get the word, I don't think that this dictionary you're using is appropriate to this High House and you're not sending a good example. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague of Sunchana Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[/Upadica Brkić: I apologize to my colleague Glavak, just a little while, my colleague Glasnović has a breach of his rules of procedure, here's a colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135251	It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, insulted me, I didn't talk, I did the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135252	Thank you, colleague Glasnović, I asked my colleague Lovrinović to adjust the dictionary a little bit in this House. I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt, so let's move on. Here you go, comrade Glavak. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in the spirit of fact, there will be my replica of my fellow Lovrinovic. Coliga Lovrinović, what you have said, is part of your debate is pure fake news or you simply do not follow what is happening in the Croatian Parliament. Saying here that we have no opportunity to discuss European topics and everything about Croatia's position in the EU is simply ridiculous. I say or you do not follow, therefore, the Prime Minister, any government is obliged to submit reports on the work of the European Council to the Croatian Parliament once a year. If you return to the start of the term of office of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, he does so after every European Council. If you haven't had a chance to discuss it, it means you weren't in the assembly, and that's your problem. And what is added to the value of Croatia in the EU, I'll tell you just on a few examples, the latest recipes are from yesterday 331 million per rotor or if you want 2 weeks ago, 42 infirmarys to equip the home health care facility in Čakovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135254	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Glavak. Answer, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, as we know, you are involved in political marketing and it is seen in your performances, there are no arguments and simply you are actually an expert in fake news among other things, because it certainly works better than me and all of us here in the assembly. Mr. Vice President, I think this dictionary is now satisfying, but our people say, when you're with the lambs then you're gawking, but when you're with the wolves, then howl, therefore, I recognize this other environment to dominate lately in the Parliament, so I have to get used to it sometimes, right? Therefore, dear fellow Members, the fact that it speaks of a diameter when it comes here, we do not need a diameter that will be our press reporter from Brussels if it pleases you here from HDZ to applaud it then enjoy it. We've had enough of this, we want a diameter that will tell Croatia what it needs and what it can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135256	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinović, you are once again demeaning parliamentary representatives and insulting them. Based on Article 239, I give you a reminder of this dictionary used in the High House. Here you are, fellow Sunshan, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135257	That's right, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, you've already intervened, so my breach of the Rules of Procedure, as well, is consistent with the article. In 238, it is precisely this completely inappropriate, especially from someone who should be a role model as a university professor, so absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135258	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135259	Thank you very much. Comrade Lovrinović, I recognize the dose of sovereigns in your performances. It has now become popular to be a sovereign tends to Zekanovic, here you are now beginning. I'm interested in this question, what do you think, about this coming to me in the HDZ Eurozone and the Plenkovic diameter, which explains to us that prices will go up in the limes for example of coffee, and as an unprepared economy and a country for the Eurozone, I think it would be devastating to go in this fast way, in which he wants to do so. On the other hand, here, since that's your profession, you've been doing it, and you're probably still doing it as a scientist, I'm curious about what you think about it. I'm very reserved, as we enter the euro zone, and I'm against falling like a goose in a fog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135260	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, the answer, my colleague Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135261	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, I would like the SDP to prefer that Croatia does not crash into the euro zone. You haven't talked about it lately, then, as far as I've seen and some of your economists are even for it. However, to return to this topic, the party Change Croatia has been stressed by the internationalist party in the context of what exists in the EU. So we're not for sudden escape from the EU. If we can achieve our interests there as the Republic of Croatia, then that's not bad. However, we need to be represented by people who know what we need there, to realize our interests, and what you're asking is how much coffee they're going to collect for 2 limes, I know that Mr. Plenkovic is not an economist, I don't know how he calculated it, but since this has not shown that it is further manipulation of Croatian citizens and that it is only an invitation to without, uncritically, As soon as we get into the euro zone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135262	I thank my colleague Lovrinović for his reply. The next replica of a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Lovrinović, two things. The first is when you refer to many of the problems that exist in France, and the ones that exist in Croatia, I think these are the problems that we created ourselves. This is not what the EU has created for us, as France has also created Macron and a whole series of other political events and situations, now that we do not enter into an analysis of the situation in another country. As for the EUR, I actually wanted to replicate to you in this, the EUR-o long-term yes, but not now and immediately and not over the knee. For several reasons, first because we are losing monetary policy by entering the euro area, so we no longer have it, so we are left with only fiscal policy. Here's an example of Slovakia which has long, had a long transition period to introduce the EUR-o economic damage it has not managed even to avoid and collect, so smartly, there are smart ways to introduce the EUR, but not now definitely, not now in a situation where our economy is still fragile I think we are absolutely not ready for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135264	Thank you, colleague Lovrinović's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135265	I thank my colleague for the question, when you talk about examples means why we are in these problems, you say it's not because of the EU project, so that's the problem, you understand. Such an approach is a neoliberal approach to the development of the EU that damages peoples and individual economies, it is over, so you see that from France he will, this fire will continue to affect the EU and it is clear to all those who have had these issues. On the other hand, look at Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary that kept their currencies, they stand at the highest GDP growth rates within the EU. Well, that's a strong message for us, so Britain didn't want to accept, today when Sweden didn't, Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary didn't talk about it at all, so let's be smart. I invite you as an SDP to resist it more and say no to the EUR until some time. If ever. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135266	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135267	Dear Representative Lovrinović, while we are here today, allegedly a meeting of the government that discusses the fate of the Uljaniks, but I think it is necessary to hold a meeting of the parliaments exclusively on the subject of shipbuilding, where it would actually be discussed, which is why the state is only now interested in selling ships below the price, which is why the state is now interested in all others, they are talking about subsidistence frauds, etc., in Uljanik. Why was this not discussed before, after all, why was it waiting in 2019, why was the situation waiting that the shipyard It's not a tall home, it's something else. [[/Employee: My colleague Pernar would ask you nicely to speak on the subject of the agenda on the basis of Article 238 and to replicate Mr Lovrinović on this subject. Here you go.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135268	Thank you, colleague Lovrinović's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135269	Mr Vice-President, I understand what my colleague Pernar wants to ask is about the budget, and the question of the budget, whose budget he is also in the EU's management means the European Commission which, if we break through a certain amount of expenditure, will call for responsibility, introduce a European semester etc., etc., so in that sense, it is only connected that he is not, you interrupted him, you probably failed to say. In this sense, why the EU's gains are not applied in the oil case, and not for years you've been looking at them, billions are now discovered, so where are the EU gains, is that if they were applied and applied, neither would Uljanik be in such a situation, nor would we and the whole society have to listen to it these days, these months. Therefore, when we talk about the EU, we need to know exactly what we want, but first of all we need new people to fight corruption, for justice, for law and for an equal position. Croatia in the EU. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135270	My colleague Lovrinović, I would ask you and your other respected colleagues and colleagues to stick to the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. We are continuing to discuss our esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135271	Dear Chairman, the fact is that these citizens of European Economic Area countries and the economic area will be able to come to Croatia to work and I have nothing personal against it and I consider it one, one good way to regulate mutual relations. However, the question arises whether any of these citizens who come to Croatia will work to find a job in Uljannik or on May 3rd is a big issue. In fact, if the shipyard is shut down, and the fact is that this government is intended to liquidate shipbuilding, that it will come to this and that actually these citizens from Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Lichtenstein will not be able to come and not only will they not be able to work there, but those people who already work there will no longer have anywhere to work, they will be out of a job. And that's one serious problem. And the question arises whether this law will allow foreigners from Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Lichtenstein to come to work in Croatia or whether, by any chance, Croatian workers who are going to have to go to those countries because of HDZ policy. Or whether we're doing the law for others or for ourselves, that's the question. And I want to tell you that the fate of shipbuilding is, or the state of shipbuilding, a micro-show of the macro state in the state, so billions are being spent and no one cares where the money goes. It was known that for years it was said that in Uljannik or May 3rd to sell ships below the price, so it was nothing to say, some new knowledge and workers pointed out the same thing. And what happened? Now all of a sudden the DORH says listen, he's been contracting ships under the price. Well, yeah, well, we all know that, so what have you been waiting for all these decades? Now, you see, that's why in Croatia institutions have the role of undertakers, scavengers, vultures who only show up when it's over, so now that workers are without pay for months, when many have quit their job because they clearly see that they need money, have no pay, have obligations, what they have to quit, and actually the state in this way where they keep the Oilstone on ice, where they keep people in constant fear and uncertainty about their jobs, actually encourages people to quit themselves to finally say, look, we don't have any more workers, what we're going to do now, we have to shut down shipbuilding. Now, my question is, if it was long known that the money from the subsidies was spent on what it was intended for, but for some other things, why was no one answering for decades and why was it not being asked? And secondly, are the governments that gave that money equally responsible if not more responsible than the administrations that spent that money? It's a question that needs to be asked. Let's just say I'm a company, that Mr. Bunjac is a state and that Mr. Bunjac as a state gives me money for, say, building fishing boats, billions every year, and instead of fishing boats, I don't do fishing boats, I do something else. And years, years, years of what I've been doing, I've been doing with great losses, and I end up falling apart. Well, Mr. Bunzak should ask him the same thing, and he should be heard by Mr. Bunjac, so you ever asked him, so you heard about the fact that it's not clear there. But our government is acting in a way to pretend that this is the first voice as if they didn't know it. Well, since they didn't know, it was written about it, there was talk about it. Is it possible that small children in Croatia know more about the problems of shipbuilding than the government? I remember that we were the first to stand in front of the shipyard and point to a disaster that would come. But then unfortunately the government didn't care, and then what happened? The government said look, boys and girls, we have a solution. Like us now, we're going to give 800 million of them. Look, you can give 100 billion if you do business the way it's done, if it's done the way it's done, it's obvious that the shipbuilding is going to fail. So obviously the problem was somewhere else. And the government instead of going to solve this problem, ask where the squeaks, which is wrong, the government simply added another lump to the avalanche of snow and that avalanche of snow, or an avalanche of debts, but unlike the workers of which many have nothing to live on, it is also a fact that some other people from the Uljanica have built villas and then no one asks the question, or as if no one sees a link between what members of the management are building a villa and what the shipyard is failing. Well, that would be suspicious to me, because let's say that I give Mr. Bunjac a large amount of money and I see that, for some economic activity, let's say Mr. Bunjac, for example. has a cable factory, I see that the factory is going down, that Mr. Bunjac is doing a villa in Zagreb, so I'd be wondering, I'd say Mr. Bunjac, is maybe the money that was supposed to go to this industrial production, is he perhaps gone to Mr. Bunjac, in your villa? It is a question which the sitting would ask, but when it comes to the great heads of our country, about these wise people, about this supreme prime minister, about those experts like Minister Maric, and they see nothing, no, no, no, Mr. Maric comes to the press, dead cold, and says the situation in Agrokor is great, everything will be fine. How's it gonna be okay? But he said it, that man is still a minister. The prime minister who's in this situation with Agrokora doesn't see the problem anywhere either. Probably even in this situation with the Oilman, the prime minister doesn't see his own personal responsibility. So it turns out that the aliens were giving that much money to the Oilman and that they weren't monitoring where he was going or that it was simply the spaceship that went down and the oil hunt went missing. Maybe that's it. And perhaps the HDZ is not responsible, perhaps the Anunnaki are responsible. Maybe here, I'll ask David Icka to go to London for the premiere of his film, ask him if the aliens might have sucked the money out of the oil and maybe he's actually guilty of this whole shipbuilding situation. Of course, Plenkovic won't say I'm responsible and my HDZ government. Or the government of my predecessor Karamark and Oreshkovic. No, they'll say it's someone else's fault, every government is saying it's someone else's fault before them, but not a friend, if the problem is now, you're responsible and if you thought the problem would be solved by pumping money into the Uljanik, 800 million, Mr. Plenkovic, so you could ask yourself if the previous governments were pumping hundreds of millions and billions of kunas into the shipbuilding, yes or no? If the answer is yes, whether the shipbuilding is saved or not. The answer is no. So just pumping the money won't solve anything, but Mr. Plenkovic acted as if he would and did not ask for a change of management, did not ask for a real change, did not in any way actually introduce a control and control mechanism. And then eventually there was an oil break on May 3rd, and the question is, in Brodotrogir, how many big ships were made, that's the question. And the question is, where's all the money Mr. Fatty got going? And the question is, in the end, how is this whole story going to end, and the government is going to say we're not as guilty as those shipyards themselves are. No, they don't have it alone because it's state money, but the state as I explained it doesn't do it at all. The question of whether Brodotrogir or Brodosplit must also be met by the same situation as now in Uljannik and May 3rd in order to enter the institutions of the rule of law and to go snooping around a little bit about what's going on there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135272	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing this issue in part and because of the situation that is happening in the EU and leaving the EU of Great Britain, the United Kingdom and we see how much, in fact, the oldest democracy in the world is having problems, in order to even implement the decision or the will of its citizens. Which means the perspective looks like the one they shouldn't have brought but should be respected. So the small majority of citizens there have made a decision and now MPs in parliament have a huge problem in how to implement that will. The democracy that has been standing for hundreds of years shows that it is not really easy to convey the will of citizens when you have that level of responsibility directly to the citizens because I said just before that our situation from the Croatian Parliament to the parliament in London, there would be no problem bringing anything there, because it is no problem for us when the HNS shifts overnight and betrays its voters or when Bandic collects tokens around the Croatian Parliament, it is no problem, there MPs think in the way their voters want those they directly elected. I guarantee you at the first vote Friday at 12 would be without a problem 80 green if the situation had been, that Zagreb's representatives would be transferred and should do the will of voters in London because of what the representatives of the majority in Zagreb in Croatia think exclusively party, interestingly, do not think about their voters and what awaits them tomorrow about the EU or what their future would be called. On this side, the representatives of the majority or with the EUR are not burdened at all, nor with the shipbuilding there with a smile and I would say without undue concern that Prime Minister Plenkovic is expected to make a decision on bankruptcy, firing 1,000 and 1,000 people because of course they do not worry too much about what is outside the zone of their interest. It is about Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, if it were about Zadar we would think differently, if it were about parts of Croatia where, where HDZ is shaking, let's say, rather than IDS think differently, and that is the difference, there is a big difference between the Croatian representatives of the majority and representatives of the majority in the United Kingdom parliament, for example. Today we listened here and how many citizens there are in general the United Kingdom in the area of the Republic of Croatia and we heard that it is 600, be careful how much interest we are as a state, offer perspective to their citizens when only 600 out of 64 million came to live here in Croatia. It is almost like that if we were to combine the size of 30 to 40 Croats into the United Kingdom, 30 to 40 of our fellow citizens, that they had gone to the United Kingdom, perhaps 30, 40, but thousands, not just 30, 40. And there is a taste of the problem in what Croatia must generally solve, which is that it creates a perspective and a future for citizens who live primarily in Croatia, as well as those who might want to come to Croatia to live in Croatia and to build a better, more modern, more modern country with us. There should be open and stop the negative demographic trend that governments in Croatia 100ths and 100ths of people who have gone away over the past few years, and they will go even more because of the policy that HDZ conducts and in shipbuilding and in all others I would say industry, but most of all in the sense of justice that people do not see ministers sitting in cars overnight more than EUR 100,000 in private, taking them who knows what arrangements and getting out of it as if nothing had happened or jumping ministers on the shoulders of Croatian entrepreneurs at matches in Moscow Croatian national teams, it is probably an unprecedented picture of them, likely to remain etched into memory, because nowhere else in the world, I have seen the Minister of Finance jumping on the shoulders of a large entrepreneur, except perhaps figuratively if he wants to collect taxes, not to be played with boys in high school happy and one another. So that's why hundreds of thousands of people leave our country and that's why this law might not seem so important to us because unfortunately a lot of people from other countries don't come to the Republic of Croatia, and we like to get both knowledge and young people to come to the Republic of Croatia to develop, just the opposite of our own, to say, the most competitive, with the best education, competences, we send and diverge around the world, most of course in the EU area because it's the most spatially close to you. The question arises why someone would work for three times the pay, and they wouldn't move 200 or 300 km away and work there for three times the salary. Until we solve these problems, the question of crossing borders, whether someone will be 8 days, 2 days, 3 days, I don't think it's too much to deal with because such cases won't be in practice or not, we'll only have cases of watching the columns of our people leaving, and on the other hand we'll get and listen here to the assurance that the government is doing excellent work, that no other government has been able to do before it, and the results are just the opposite, the worst results that any government has ever had were just the results of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, the most people from the Republic have gone just during the time of Andrej Plenkovic, the worst scandals and the worst standards, the lowest standards of the ministers' behaviour in the government have been during the government of this existing Andrej Plenkovic, and that is one of the main reasons why people are leaving the Republic of Croatia and why we don't have European values in the view that they can't even control the wholesector , because they't know that they all of the same way thatthey 're going tostay , becausethey 're allthey 're going to stay in the same way thatthey 're going to stay in the sameway , becausethey' , andthey' , andthey 're going to stay in thewhole , andthey' , andthey 're going to thewhole , andthey 're going to be in thewhole , andthey' , and thewhole , andthey's , and thewhole , and thewhole , and thewhole , andthey's , whichthey's , whichthey ' of thewhole , whichthey ' of thewhole , andthey ' of thewhole , whichthey's , whichthey's , whichthey's , whichthey's , andthey's , andthey's , andthey ' of thewhole , andthey ' of thewhole , andthey ' of thewhole , andthey ' of thewhole , whichthey ' of thewhole , andthey ' of thewhole , thatthey ' of thewhole , andthey ' of thewhole , whichthey ' of the wholethey ' of thewhole , andthey ' of thewhole , andthey ' of thewhole , thatthey' , thatthey' , thatthey ' of thewhole , thatthey ' of thewhole , thatthey ' of thewhole , thatthey' So colleagues and colleagues look up a little bit to British parliamentarians, especially you from the HNS, they would never have done what you did, ever, ever, so it's something that doesn't exist recorded in Parliamentarianism practice to make a salad mortal overnight. You too look up to fellow colleagues and colleagues who have defected or colleagues and colleagues from Club Milan Bandić who have brought you together and now listen as if Europe had given something to Zagreb, and in fact the question is which way it is arranged and whether it is essentially connected to each other in a way to you, you, given that it is only in the logic of Andrej Plenkovic and Milan Bandić, would not be surprised that it is so. So this law is relatively of little importance as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned because very few people in the Republic of Croatia come from what, here is where the simplest thing in the final sentence would be because of what the government in the Republic of Croatia represents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135274	I thank my colleague, Maras. I would kindly ask you fellow Maras to agree or disagree with someone's political decisions, but do not call colleagues and colleagues any chips. So, please, you understand me. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135275	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you said that we here need, or the Republic of Croatia, to create a perspective for and a future for the citizens who live here and who will stay here or who will come here and that is essentially everything and that and you said a comparison of how British representatives function, how we function here. So it is not as much a problem as some colleagues say to be in the EU and to be a member of the EU, it is only in our head that we must understand that we are one of the 28 EU countries and that we should be equal and that our MPs should behave in the European Parliament to protect Croatian interests, and not to implement ministerial policies, so when for example. One Tajani says that Dalmatia, Istria, Italian then in the Europarliament we need representatives who, I don't know, like you when you were there, will tell Tajani... You are a fascist, not representatives like Shuice who will explain, and we told him it was wrong and don't do it anymore and he won't do it anymore, because they belong to the same group in the European Parliament. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what we need to understand and how we should behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135276	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic, if you'd just watch your time. Comrade Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135277	Thank you very much. Col. Djujic, so it is clear why Dubravka Šuica cannot answer Tajania, because Tajani is a friend of Andrej Plenkovic's, they are friends, each other's wallpaper, support it, and it is normal that then Dubravka Šica cannot react because she is afraid of the reaction of Andrej Plenkovic and whether she will put it first or not on the European list. And the paradox, that we have the first on the HDZ list, is likely to be the person who failed to oppose the fascist fallout of Tajani, President of the European Parliament. Same as the paradox that we're all paying for HRT here, and HDZ's candidate is being advertised free of charge on that TV the day before yesterday, where the daughter of the host was allegedly an intern in Mrs. Shuce. So do you see how many conflicts of interest there are and how radically a thing has been set up? in the Republic of Croatia and [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] People don't want to pay [[Intruder: Thank you...]] subscription and therefore not satisfied with this system [[Invader:...kolega Maras]] The system. [[Intruder: colleague Maras...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135278	...thank you. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I am interested in one thing, you see, for months it has been trying to explain to us here in the Republic of Croatia through public media that only one representative of Nigel Faraz in the European Parliament has virtually deceived all English and that man has influenced Britain's exit from the EU. Do you think it's true or it's true something else, which is that the people of Great Britain realized that it wasn't his best solution and that he decided to come out. We saw the signatures being collected, about 6 million were reportedly collected, there are 64 million of them, you said that, whether they had their own Lovre Kuštević who wouldn't let them raise 7 million to carry out the referendum. Well, please explain, is that the will of the people or did Farage deceive everything?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135280	Thank you, colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135281	It is certain that at that moment the will of the people was so. The small majority, but it was like that, would recommend a Brexit movie, look at it, Farage had very little or nothing to do with it, with the whole campaign he was a mascot that they used minimally and almost nothing, even removed him from the campaign itself. The biggest share of the campaign was marketing over social networks that had a huge impact on people's sensitization to vote to go out and at the end of the day it was so close, that some other day it might have been a different result, maybe today the result would be different, but unfortunately, it's like with us when you vote for HDZ, no more regrets, 4 years then it's a tragedy, no laughter, so people have to be very careful about who they vote for and how they vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135282	Thank you, let's move on to the next replica of the esteemed colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mares, I must look back on this famous Tajani who, when he apologized for calling Istria and Dalmatia Italian, then said after a few weeks that Mussolini might not have been quite wrong. So now you tell me if it's really the man who apologized because he thought he was wrong or because he was afraid he wouldn't sign him up as a fascist? Also now, if I were evil, I would speak to which political group it belongs and that it happens to be in that same political group and HDZ, which has therefore been mildly and then defends our interests in the EU. But we go back to the law, what we should and what we worry about is the protection of our citizens living in the United Kingdom and I know some personally and their status is very, very important. And what you said, people leave the Republic of Croatia not because of the economic situation, but rather because of the lack of trust in institutions and moral standards, unfortunately, especially in politics, we are falling terribly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135284	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic, colleague Maras' reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135285	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, you should not be ashamed of it at all, nor to say it here, nor to cover it up. The secretaries, in my deep conviction, share fascist statements, Tajani is a friend of Andrej Plenkovic and Tajani is in the same group as HDZ and Croatian citizens need to know. You vote for HDZ, for Dubravka Shuicu, you vote for Tajani, you vote for Gordan Maras, you vote for the only representative who stood up to the European Parliament in Tajani and came to his face. So, I'd be glad if HDZ's representatives did what I did, but they can't, Andrej Plenkovic won't let his friend get touched and Tajania has to tell him what's going on, and the Republic of Croatia has to protect its interests, it has to protect its Istria, it has to protect its Dalmatia because it's our country and our interest. must be the first, not the party HDZ [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] And SDP's. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135286	...college Maras. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this law that may just go back to it, it defacto separates legislation relating to the freedom of movement of citizens of European economic space from the regulation relating to freedom of movement of all others, and in this sense it is important to us, not only to the citizens of Great Britain, since in my opinion we really cannot say what will happen to the UK in this very complicated process and procedure that they have entered into. However, it is important to know that this is also about reciprocity, therefore, as we regulate it for citizens of European economic space, so the countries of European economic space will regulate it for our citizens who are going there, and therefore it is in our interest to make it transparent, clear and as liberal as possible in relation to the freedom of movement of these people, of course with these fences that are listed here and from that point of view, I think that this law is something that needs to be supported. However, in the debate or so, this debate has been used to discuss a whole series of other things that are related because they are related to decisions taken by either some EU members or certain aspects of the EU regulatory framework or to the relationship between the EU regulatory framework and the legislation adopted by the National Parliaments. It's mentioned here in Iceland as an example. Iceland spent many years in EU membership negotiations and eventually decided to give it up, decided to fish. Iceland is, to a large extent, the monoculture, the economy of a key tour, and this is fishing, given the situation of Iceland and that fact, the interests of such a country are important from the interests of a country like Croatia. Let me say a few words about what's been said here, which is the United Kingdom. It would dare to say that at this time, citizens of the United Kingdom or the United Kingdom are giving the EU the greatest support of all EU Member States. I have here just the information that in a public opinion survey, at a time of 55% of the UK's citizens is for the UK to remain in the EU. At 70 hours, 6 million signatures were collected in the UK for the UK's stay in the EU. Millions of people came out on the streets last Saturday, so the biggest protest in favour of the rest of Great Britain in the EU? Why did the 2016 referendum turn out the way it turned out? Well, in part, and because of the lack of public debate and knowledge of the public, and we should also be concerned because we have the same problem. Everything that is wrong with the EU and everything that is good to ourselves and we have little and no knowledge and debates on this subject in public, the public knows too little about it and can be preyed on by different ad hoc populist initiatives, movements. Who greatly influenced the results of the referendum. Among other things, Cambridge analysts, one institution, let's say the Institute that dealt with the creation of public opinion and which has broken so many laws that it no longer exists but is its business together with a certain group of politicians including some who sit in Parliament called the European Research Group, I think, or the European Research Group, who have just dealt with the propaganda of the EU's exit, the dissatisfaction with the domestic situation, the ignorance and the aggressive campaign that went through classical media and through social networks, resulted in 17 million voting to come out unlike 16 million who voted for staying. Now, at this time, this situation in the Great, so 3 years later or 2.5 years later, this situation in the UK is no longer because suddenly people changed their minds based on nothing, but because they suddenly realized what advantages even such an economy as the Great Britain is, whatever they think of them, they were the 5th, so now they're the 6th economy in the world. So an economy that can be assumed to be easier to survive on its own without a European common market than an economy like Croatia. And it is interesting in my opinion to see that Croatia is de facto, especially those parts that have been prepared for it and which are competitive in this respect, which is northwestern County, Istria, Primorje-Gorski and in some ways the city of Zagreb has profited most economically from joining the EU and we have profited more than in those parts than we have politically profited because unfortunately, many things that we have politically come to a higher level of equality, the protection of human and civil rights have unfortunately recededed. But in this respect, let's say pressure and understanding why it's economical for us was the most important thing in my experience right before we got in, from the middle like Međimurje County. There, entrepreneurs wanted this to happen as soon as possible so that they could get out and successfully exited to this very European market. I would say that the debates today show that it is important, and I appreciate the fact that the prime minister reports after every European Council, but I think it would still be important, and that if you want the degree of ignorance of what it is really about when we talk about the EU, it shows that it would be important to organise once in this House unrelated to any other law or event, to organise a debate, really based on data, on the EU and on the opportunities that come with membership, difficulties, the problems that we have here. We, within the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and hopefully in cooperation with the Committee on European Affairs, will have one debate on the basis of research conducted among young people on attitudes towards the EU, where they are almost 60% positive, but at the same time with a very small feeling or almost no sense of influence of young people aged 15-30, whether on domestic policy, whether on EU policy. It's something I think is worth the debate and it shows where the problem lies. So, as far as this law is concerned, I don't think it's problematic, as far as the general subject is concerned, I think we really need a debate on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135288	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic. We're moving on to replicas. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135289	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Pusic. You said right now that the Istrian County has profited greatly by joining the EU. So, as I recall, before I joined the EU, the Uljannik Shipyard was a insolvency shipyard that paid wages and made some kind of profit. By order of the EU and your former president, Ivan Vrdoljak, the shipyards have been destroyed. And now this same ex-intimus of yours, Vrdoljak, has yet to escape HDZ to destroy other shipyards, which we are witnessing at the government's session right now. So tell me, what good does the Oilman have from the EU? What's gone wrong? The fact that 20,000 people are going to be out of work and co-operatives and... Family? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that the EU's profit or were you thinking of someone else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135290	Thank you. Answer, colleague Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135291	The fact that, according to GDP, Istria County is today the first or second in Croatia for development. As far as shipbuilding is concerned, imagine that we are not in the EU. They wouldn't have any shipyards. And these problems are not related to the EU, these problems are related to the business or way of doing business in Uljanik, in part, and in part to the fact that shipbuilding simply moved to Southeast Asia. Such a situation is marketable, and obviously, therefore, shipbuilding, whether or not they are in the EU, would be in difficulty, given the location, the price of work and the situation in which we are in, and certainly in the case of the Oilics, it seems to have something to do with the way it is managed. I don't intend to answer to this personal disqualification attempt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135292	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135293	Thank you. Dear counterpart Pusic, I am surprised by your claim that Croatia has profited by joining the EU, but I have listed in my discussion specific data on the drop in living standards, i.e. the average one in the EU. On the other hand, we see that Croatia continues to deindustrize, we lose meaning, parts of the industry, now these are shipyards, which is now the latest happening, so the data is quite different from what you're saying. Agriculture, you see, it's destroying still. There are more and more bad import products on the shelves, some say, so, some competitors, they're cheaper, okay, but that's the only thing that makes people more and more better. I suppose you care about proving that this neoliberalism should remain, but the country that led it, Britain along with the United States, they give up, you see, from the concept of globalisation that was based on it and they turned to their interests, their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135294	Thank you. Answer, colleague Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135295	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lovrinović's. I don't know if you know what neoliberalism means, so in this respect, the EU is certainly not neoliberal. There are countries that are, but not in the EU. The EU, if anything, is criticised for being overly interventional, not for neoliberalism, in the economy, because neoliberalism has nothing to do with liberalism, neoliberalism is actually a form of deep conservativeism in the economy, in the economy, but let's put it aside. This is certainly not the EU's problem, and what has proved in Croatia is that those regions that were ready, therefore, with competitive companies, to go to the EU market, have profited from these regions. Those who did not profit, and therefore our interest is to make all the regions in Croatia competitive enough to profit from that market. Look at the real data.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135296	Thank you, fellow Pusic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, final word, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135297	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. So, some things, as we can see, change from day to day, and some things don't change for centuries. In the 19th century, we had people here who said that Croatia couldn't do it alone, that we needed other people's protection and as if that spirit hadn't disappeared, even the name hasn't changed. Then we called them Unionists, here they are today called Unionists. One Unionist, another Unionist, says we need Germany. Then why did Ante Starcevic not allow himself to be buried in Zagreb? Why did he go to the Sixes? Because he was ashamed as much as Germany boasted in Zagreb and as much as German was spoken, he wouldn't even drink beer out of protest because he was German and drank wine. And okay, when he died, then it was admitted, he's Father of the Homeland, let's put him on 1,000 kuna. So there was talk of some statehood. Where did that statehood go? What are we going to throw that bill and 1,000 kn, yes, and that's your plan. Don't look at your bad conscience. You'll put it on, you can put it on Mr. Tajani's euro note. That's your role model and Mr. Junker, instead of Ante Starchviec, because we need that Starcevic in the first place. Why do we need this independent and modern and independent Croatia? Why do we need citizenship for Croatian historical rights? We have European bureaucrats, who will be kissing our laps, just like the Hungarians did, and I don't know which Ladislav Pejačević and Khuen Hedervary. It's your policy, you've returned to those ugly positions, which are in all the history books, in all the encyclopedias described as treason of the homeland. Read, don't listen to me, keep in touch. You're telling us fairy tales about how the euro is gonna make us some kind of profit. What will it bring us, to pay Greek debts? When did the Greeks pay Croatian debts? Why can't our poor woman get 3 euros from Europe to pay, we will pay the Greeks the debts, which have 800 euros in pensions. How many of our men do they have? 100-200 euros each and we'll pay their debts, so what are they? Let's get you paid those debts that are... Let them pay for Angela Merkel, who bombed Athens and killed them, I don't know, 500 thousand Greeks, never gave them one brand of compensation to the Greeks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let them pay for it. Why would they pay me for it? You're talking about how we won't be able to go to work in the EU anymore, so who says? So they call 2 million Syrians to come, they're good to them, Germany, they'll get anything you want, apartment, food, work, just come. Now as Croats, they won't allow it. How is it that 3 million Ukrainians have entered EU territory and are working when they are not members of both the EA and the EFTA and the EU, so they work? How come a million and a half Ukrainians work in the U.S.? Who stopped them from razor wire and I don't know who? They need us, not us. The German economy needs Croatian workers, otherwise it will fail. Now there's a panic spreading, starting with MP Pusic, who said we wouldn't have... Now we won't be able to go to Germany. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whoever says, they'd take us all if they could. Even now Austria will open borders and we are already working across the EU, now they will give up workers. Yeah, and then who are they gonna take for us? Who will they take, Pakistani? Mauricias will bring in the workers. Let's stop this with these cheap tricks, with the intimidation of people, etc. because you are working against the interest of the Croatian people. This people are more honest, more quality, more capable than these bureaucrats, which you want to make us an authority. It does not prevent EU corruption, but increases it. It doesn't bring freedom, it takes it, it doesn't give dignity to the pensioners of Mrs. Pusic, he throws her into the darkest misery, which she didn't exist in 19th or '20s. Not in '21. A century, and now he's got it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135298	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for the closing statement, on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Ranko Ostojic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135299	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, I will say that the EU, a good project, which we entered six years ago, is that we were unable to take advantage of all the best advantages of the EU, which is another problem. I think it's also important for the adoption of this law, to point out, what I just said, as a parliamentary representative, I'm very proud, when I support the views of the female attorney general, and it has nothing to do with party or color, because it's important, what's written and what's proposed, not who wrote it. First of all, I think it's very argumentative that all the data was presented and for that reason, I think it was necessary to respect them, not just reject them. I believe that these things can be fixed until the second reading of this law, and that we will probably have a clear situation about this Brexit and what I emphasized about the discrepancies actually to bring into force the law apart from art. The 75th to take place only after the UK and the United Kingdom eventually exits the EU. Also, since this debate reportedly has always spread to other things and said that out of 561m euros, guarantees were issued during the SDP government, as it was often mentioned, 360m euros, related to the Uljanica ships delivered, were either covered or partially built ships. Uncovered guarantees remained 194m euros. On the other hand of 387m euros, guarantees issued by the HDZ government for the construction of only 12m euros spent. 375 million eras, left uncovered. Of the 20 new constructions with state guarantees of around 940 million eras, 8 delivered 150 million euros, 6 was partially built, with a range of 30-90% of 267 million euros, which includes 90%... worth more than a billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the remaining 6 constructions, no potentially ordered material has started, and unbuilt ships, liquidity loans and state-of-the-art in Ulanik remain liabilities of €520 million plus interest. It is important to note that all guarantees issued by the SDP government in 2014 and 2015 were made in 2016, 2017, 2018, which also means that the spending of money from advances and loans covered by these guarantees is controlled by one of the two HDZ governments in that period from 2016 to 2018. And since I am saying this all for the reasons, which, of course, is that the debate and European issues used for this, and many economic analysts, observers of what has been happening to the group in the last year and a half, are asking questions with the right, why has the government not responded before if the Government's institutions are the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance had enough information that there is a problem in the business process. I'll repeat, only 12, the entire 12 million euros has been built. Unfortunately, it is quite certain that the delay in this decision-making will actually be resolved, as we could see with this play, which is that a Pedro was found, and that we did not look at the responsibility for all of this in 2016, 2017, 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135300	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the closing word on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, and although this two-and-a-half-hour debate has made much less of the law itself, more of the overall situation with the EU and the recent exit of the United Kingdom from EU membership, I would still refer to some of the allegations. I will repeat, therefore, that this law, that the objective of this law, let's say, is the clean implementation of Directive 38 of 2004. on the freedom of movement of EU citizens and members of their families and the right to stay in other Member States because, as I pointed out, in the existing Law on Foreigners which is very large and overall transposes 25 or more regulations, a directive or decisions, it is not possible to do so in a good and clear way. In addition, citizens of EU Member States and members of their families are not, as they say, classical foreigners, so we are now members of that one community, one family of EU countries and this directive and other regulations require that members of the citizens of those countries and members of their families otherwise regulate their status in the host country, in this case in the Republic of Croatia. This law is therefore brought to the attention of one of the questions that has been raised here, whether it is brought for itself or for others, it is brought for other citizens, but of course it is telling what kind of Republic of Croatia is and we expect, of course, with law and reciprocity in other EU countries or European economic space. Only, therefore, the regulation of stay is much simpler than that of third-country nationals, for example, do not need specific confirmations or evidence of means of restraint, so, as the directive says, and our law transposes it, will not require greater means of restraint, except those required by the social welfare regulations in a particular country or in this case in the Republic of Croatia, unless it is estimated that this is useful and, etc., it is easier to regulate the natural status of temporary or permanent residence to European economic space citizens than third-country nationals. So we bring this now for these 17800 citizens of the European Economic Area, and if it is in the future and I think it will show that the Republic of Croatia is a country that attracts other citizens of the EEA countries. There have been talks on the restriction of entry and residence to the citizens of the European Economic Area and that the directive is not properly transposed. Namely, Chapter 6 of the 2004 Directive. It sets out only the general criteria for limiting the movement of citizens of the European Economic Area, but it clearly states that, for example, the economic situation cannot be a reason not to grant entry to EEA citizens. The only reason they can be is if they pose a threat to national security, public order or public health. The restriction, therefore, must not be based on economic reasons and will only be determined if the conduct of an EEA Member State constitutes a real, present and serious risk to the interests of society in accordance with the principle of proportionality. So there are several elements that limit this in our provisions, in the provisions of Chapters 8 of Article 8. 44 to Art. In 69, which regulates it in detail, so in 25 articles, we think it's very well worked out. However, the Ministry of the Interior does not treat the attorney general as it has been said here, but we do talk, regularly respond to her questions, we provide information about her report, which will probably soon, which will soon be before the MPs, so we cooperate with quality and often and hold meetings. I can say on behalf of the ministry that we are ready to talk again about these remarks to Chapter 8 of the Law and see what is the best solution. As for the citizens of the United Kingdom at this point, we think that in these transitional provisions we have given the best possible solution, we will follow as is said here, as the further situation develops, it is somewhat confusing, burdensome, and for the second reading we will propose appropriate provisions concerning these citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families. That's it, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135302	I thank the Secretary of State. We have one replica, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135303	Dear Secretary of State, I just wanted the word not to be ignored, but in several legal solutions, it happens that in fact every remark that the Attorney General is not respected. I've been warning about the details that are very important, which is 8 days of opportunity, that the Minister's rules, that a person can be detained, that's really something that I think is rightly warned about. I couldn't agree more on the matter of national security protection, but we've settled it with other laws. What's foreseen here in this law is for me, something that needs to be taken into account. And I'm glad you said you were going to talk to the Attorney General, those remarks that were made, they weren't written for no reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135304	Thank you. I would like to conclude the debate, thank the esteemed Secretary of State, Zarka Katić, and the co-workers in their arguments and answers, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135305	Proposal for a Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, first reading, P.Z.E., 602, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 94 for, five abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135306	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a temporary measure law in the area of compulsory health insurance, first reading, P.Z. No. 609 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 609 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would like a representative of the motionary, the respected secretary of state, Željko Plazonić, to give us an additional explanation of the bill, please welcome the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. Therefore, the draft Act on the temporary measure in the area of compulsory health insurance will, on the date of the exit of the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the EU, and without an agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland from the EU and the country will become practically 3rd countries. All EU legislation ceases to apply from that date to citizens of the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, as well as to citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whose compulsory health insurance is achieved in accordance with EU law, in the area of co-ordination of the social security system, and on the burden of the United Kingdom insurance holder. At that point, temporary or permanent stay or residence in the Republic of Croatia, i.e., have established status of insured persons in compulsory health insurance of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of this legislative proposal, the Republic of Croatia, will, for the longest time in a year following the exit of the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland from the EU, without a withdrawal agreement and subject to reciprocity, continue to apply the rules contained in EU rules from the area of coordination of the social security system, i.e. those persons, will be allowed to use mandatory health insurance uninterrupted. In the absence of reciprocity by the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, the costs incurred under the compulsory health insurance rights will be borne by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and will be borne by the position of the Ministry of Health. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135308	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mr. Plazonic, we have one replica, dear colleague Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135309	Thank you, Vice-President, honourable secretary of state, one question, only, is this one introduced at EU level by the system of electronic exchange of data on health insurance of users in view of these several years already intense transitions, departures of people and employment, because I think it would solve for people not to be double-secured, i.e. here in Croatia and in another country or so in some other countries. Whether this system started to work, because it would solve a number of problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135310	Thank you. Secretary of State Plazonic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135311	This system will start to function from 1.7 this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135312	I would like to thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague of the Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135313	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposal for a temporary measure law in the field of compulsory health insurance, constitutional basis, the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article. 2. with such 4, subparagraph 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be regulated by law and the consequences that the law will result in by Regulation No 883. In 2004, the European Parliament and the Council of April 2004 on the coordination of the social security system, as last amended by the Commission Regulation of 21 March 2017 amending the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of social security systems and Regulation (EC) No 987/2009. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The mandatory health insurance law, the health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, regulates the way in which the rights and compulsory health insurance are applied, all persons who are temporarily or continuously staying or resident in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. On the day of the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Northern Ireland's exit from the EU without an agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, it becomes a third country. Therefore, all EU legislation ceases from that date to apply to the citizens of the United Kingdom as well as to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who are subject to compulsory health insurance in accordance with EU rules in the area of co-ordination of the social security system and who are temporarily or continuously staying or staying in the Republic of Croatia. With insight into the records of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, compulsory health insurance on the burden of the health insurance provider, 135 persons from the United Kingdom are made available. This legislative proposal stipulates that those persons, with temporary or permanent residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia, at the time of the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU, without an agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, will continue to exercise compulsory health insurance rights, in the same way as before, while the UK was in the EU. The law annexed lays down that, for the longest time in a year following the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU, without an agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, the Republic of Croatia will, subject to reciprocity, continue to apply the rule abstention in EU legal regulations in the area of co-ordination of the social security system. The assessment and sources of the funds necessary for the implementation of this law do not require the provision of additional funding in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, except in the case of the absence of reciprocity by the UK, where the costs incurred by the compulsory health insurance rights are borne by the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, from the position of the Ministry of Health, based on the health protection of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia as part of the total planned funds of cca 3 million kuna. The proposal for a law on a temporary measure in the area of compulsory health insurance contains 4 articles. In the first article, this law regulates temporary measures in the field of compulsory health insurance, in the exercise of the status and rights of citizens of the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland and of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which are subject to mandatory health insurance in accordance with EU rules in the field of coordination of the social security system, in the event of the exit of the UK from the EU. This Article shall regulate the provisional measure in the field of compulsory health insurance. The second article, citizens of the United Kingdom and of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who, at the time of the exit of the UK from the EU, without an withdrawal agreement, have established the status of a insured person in compulsory health insurance of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Regulation on the coordination of the social security system. Health insurance goes to the burden of the United Kingdom health insurance provider to retain the status of the insured person, and to the right of compulsory health insurance, in accordance with the established status for the maximum period of one year from the date of exit of the UK from the EU. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Art. 3. in the case of a lack of reciprocity, by the UK in the application of the procedures laid down in the Regulation and other regulations in the area of coordination of the social security system, the costs of the rights incurred under Article 3(3); 2 of this law shall be paid to the holder of compulsory health insurance of the Republic of Croatia from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, from the position of the Ministry of Health. And Art. 4. this law will be published in the National Journal and will enter into force on the date of the UK's exit from the EU, without the withdrawal agreement, and will cease to be valid within the year from the date of its entry into force. Clearly, the HDZ Club will support this law, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135314	Thank you, dear colleague Kirina. On behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Dr Branimir Bunjac, here you are, colleague Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135315	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, here is another genius law from the EU, under which Croatian taxpayers will have to provide compulsory health insurance to British citizens, even when they leave the EU. So why don't we give, when we're so rich and... Britain is a poor country compared to Croatia, and it is okay for us to give the rich to the poor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what we're saying. We pay the Afghan police, we finance a NATO operation in South Sudan, Iraq, Afghanistan, the Mediterranean. Why in the Mediterranean, then why don't we give them British mandatory health insurance? Here we can even see that even these migrants who are coming, HZZO brought a measure in October last year that migrants should be well taken care of, that they should be hired, we see that they are building, we want to build a large reception center in Petrinja, so now that the citizens there are a little rebelling, is that they are basically, the evil citizens of our citizens are very strong, so now they're still going to move to Lika, let those migrants be taken care of there, and that's all right, I don't mind, here I suggest they pay Chinese health insurance, a billion Chinese, why don't we, so we have unlimited funds obviously to pay everyone who needs it. And, look, we happen to have 10,000 homeless people, how come this HZZO and this EU, so many good guys out there, don't remember to take care of 10,000 Croatian homeless people? I'm walking around Zagreb, so it's not a free bench in the evening that can be sat down, every bench is busy with some guy who doesn't even have shoes. I come to the Imported Gallery in these underground garages, the man on the man sleeps, so if we can already fund all these strangers, you let our people finance too. Our homeless people can't get a place at the shelter, they can't get social help, they get one lunch a day, watch out, one meal a day. You know what the procedure is when a dog is found on the street? When a dog is found on the street, the communal officer has to take it to the vet to give him all the drugs he can, to systematically examine it, he has to give him room and he has to give him enough food. In the Republic of Croatia, gentlemen dear, even a dog has a better standard than our homeless. Is that normal for you? Is that normal for you? What kind of society is we that sees homeless people, who sees hungry people around them and doesn't react, and we pay for health insurance here, we hire migrants, and we provide housing, so what logic does that make you? What kind of company is that, anyway? There are about 8 million animal species in the world, different or not, I don't know how many billions, there's a terrible lot, every animal on the globe has its own apartment, has its own partner, and is not hungry, only in human society do we have hungry and homeless and lonely people alone who nobody cares about alive. And on the other hand, we have a wastefulness where 10 billion kunas are given to the Uljanik that no one knows what they are spent on, a billion and a half are given to Brodoslit to get away with on some daughter companies, etc., that some abnormal salaries are given to these administrations at 40-50,000.00 kn, and our healthy eyes, healthy eyes, don't see misery in the streets of Croatian citizens who are like ghosts to us, we don't want to look past them, let alone that this High House, according to the vice president HS, might be high because of what the roof is 20 meters from the floor, maybe that's why it's high, doesn't pass a law that would take care of those people. How many times have you been across the square and seen that poor man selling street lights? Did you buy that magazine for £10.00 at least once? Have you wondered how he's doing? Did you wonder if he was cold? Did you ever talk to him for at least five minutes, give him a hand, give him some sense of humanity, some sense of dignity? You didn't, because if you did, you'd be heartbroken and you'd be doing something to say something about this Assembly speaker if nothing else and only you still bring these laws to HS, be proud of what you have for everyone and everyone, just not for those people who speak your own language, who have the same nieces as you and the same God-day rights by birth as they are guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution. So, I ask you nicely in the Republic of Croatia we have 30,000 empty properties minimum, 30,000 and 10,000 homeless, unfortunately the number is constantly increasing, so give if anything else, at least that state property instead of mixing it and selling it under the price, above the price, as it comes to you, at least then solve our citizens' problems, primarily our citizens, and then solve whatever you want, penguins on Antarctica and problems, I don't know, Pakistanis, and who will not come here with all due respect, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135316	Thank you very much. I know that an election campaign has started, but I hope the following speakers will stick to the topic, and the topic is changes in compulsory health insurance, so I will ask the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative, Nada Turina Đuric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135317	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. I don't mean to be too long around this bill, and I think that these proposals really have a lot of justification for going into emergency procedures and for their shortness, but also for proposing something that is acceptable by the very logic of things, I hope most of them not only in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives but also our citizens. The GLAS Club will, of course, support this law in the first reading, we have nothing special to add except to say that we are for certain civilizational standards adopted by the EU and all its members, which means that, regardless of any political developments that may occur here in this particular case, we are for the EU exit decision of the United Kingdom, which directly to its citizens in the sense of this law will not be reflected in the way that they will suffer and in this sense means the laws we are making and at EU level, which we are following, must be and will be, as far as we are concerned, solid and socially sensitive and we will accept them in this way. Here is, of course, that this topic is used in a broader sense when elections are ahead of us, especially elections for the European Parliament, but it is something that is part of political space and political speech, of course it should work to make it as little as possible to raise the level of political communication to a higher level but also the policies that we are proposing in the light of certain laws that come into this House, as Mr Bunjac said, it is. I believe it is and that we as members of that home must act at the level that he deserves as representatives of the people we represent here. So here again I say, support and it is commendable that we have reacted, what might be to warn you about what my predecessor said is that we are also spotty when it comes to the problems of our citizens, or in this case the users of HZZO services, because there have been signs that one part of our citizens who unfortunately emigrate from the Republic of Croatia are in some way abuse of the situation in which they can use and, despite being not constantly in the Republic of Croatia, using the services of our health system by using actually HZZO and using services to the Republic of Croatia and by working and paying obvious taxes in another country rather than here. I think that we should react without any harm to do to our citizens but on the grounds that if you make a life decision, you will change the place of residence and place of work then in accordance with the way you arrange all your documents and all your obligations to the country where you live and in which you work, and that you do not take advantage of your country which is no longer the same place. Here it is, I thank you and we will support the bill in this first reading, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135318	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate, first came the Honorable representative of Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to speak, then answered the honourable representative Ivan Pernar, gone, lost his right to speak. I therefore conclude the debate on this agenda point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135319	Proposal for a temporary measure law in the field of compulsory health insurance, first reading, P.Z. No. 609, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a temporary measure law in the field of compulsory health insurance and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 98 for and 1 abstention, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135320	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Protocol on the Elimination of Illegal Trade in Tobacco Products, Second Reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Željko Plazonić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135321	Thank you, well-respected Vice President and academia Reiner, the distinguished and respected parliamentary deputies and MPs. Therefore, legal trade in tobacco products poses a continuing threat affecting the economy, health and public security and brings revenue losses to the budget due to unpaid tax duties. It also undermines the price and tax measures created to strengthen tobacco control, thereby increasing the accessibility of tobacco products and contributing to enhanced use of tobacco products. Despite the anti-trafficking measures that are constantly being taken and the work of the competent authorities, mainly customs and police, recent trends continue to show that existing activities are not sufficient to address this problem. The law certifying the removal of illicit trade in tobacco products creates the possibility of removing all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products, in accordance with Article. 15th World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, signed by the Republic of Croatia since 2004. The legislative proposal allows the establishment and application of effective measures to monitor and regulate the supply chain of tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment in order to prevent, interfere, detect, investigate and finally prosecute their illegal trade, and to ensure that international cooperation is improved in order to improve the effectiveness, activity and enforcement of the law in the fight against illegal behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135322	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Vlatko Kopic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135323	Dear Mr. Vice-President HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues, we know that tobacco trafficking is a serious global problem, so cooperation at the world level is needed in order to address everything in the black tobacco market in the best possible way. Protocol on the removal of illicit trade in tobacco products which entered into force on 25 September 2018. the first international contract is intended to combat international tobacco smuggling. It lays down measures to ensure the supply chain by creating a global tracking and monitoring system, licensing, and a thorough analysis and other requirements for keeping records. It also provides for international co-operation through mutual assistance from authorities and enhanced sanctions. Non-cash tobacco trade endangers the health of our population and reduces the revenues of public budgets so that these activities can be rightly classified into criminal acts because they pose a significant security risk to society as a whole. Only a binding UN international contract such as this Protocol on the removal of illicit trade in tobacco products can adequately address the major challenges we face, and therefore all partner countries around the world are invited to ratify or access the protocol as soon as possible. In the EU, nearly 700,000 people die each year from the consequences of smoking. Non-conclusive tobacco trade undermines public health policies in order to reduce smoking, there are products on the market that are therefore not in line with the EU regulation, while on legal tobacco products they must provide scientific and health warnings, and certainly the granting of additives and flavors is subject to restrictions in the production of tobacco products themselves. As provided for in the protocol, the Commission services responsible for the area of health are currently forming a system to monitor and monitor tobacco products across the EU, thus helping to combat illegal trade. The illegal tobacco market in the EU is on a strong rise, and smuggling and counterfeit cigarettes can be found in all Member States. But it is not just a problem in the EU, it is known to be a global phenomenon that requires a complete solution, and this protocol is the only possible international instrument to address this challenge now. A survey conducted across the EU revealed a lack of awareness that cigarettes offered on the black market are the main source of organised crime revenue. The European Commission and the customs authorities of the Member States are currently implementing the 2013 Action Plan and Strategy. to strengthen the fight against cigarette smuggling and illegal trade in tobacco products. This includes the implementation of the monitoring and monitoring method of the 2014 tobacco product directive, as well as the ratification of the aforementioned protocol, and its promotion in the world and public health enlightenment in this respect. At the same time, the European Anti-Fraud Office is well-known to OLAF, has strengthened its executive co-operation with national customs authorities. For example, with OLAF support 2015 A record 600 million cigarettes have been seized. In the Republic of Croatia, according to data from the Ministry of Interior for the period from 2013 to 2013 until 2018. Police officers temporarily seized more than 23 million pieces of various kinds of cigarettes and more than 230 tonnes of tobacco. It is evident that some domestic producers also cover up the truly produced quantities of tobacco and do not hand them over to buyers because the selling price of cut tobacco or tobacco in the list on the illegal market is extremely high, which makes these illegal activities highly profitable. Large quantities of illegal tobacco products appear on the market due to a large difference in retail prices, both legal and illegal tobacco products in the environment. The Republic of Croatia has significantly higher retail prices of cigarettes and fine-cut tobacco compared to the countries in the neighbourhood. Knowledge that tobacco is dominated by tobacco originating in other countries has been confirmed during certain criminal research conducted by police officers. Over the past 5 years, criminal groups, avoiding customs control measures from the Republic of Slovenia, have imported over 84 tonnes of tobacco from the Republic of Slovenia, causing damage to the state budget for at least 50 million kuna, and members of these criminal associations have achieved an illegal benefit of at least 3.8 million kuna. By entering full EU membership, the Republic of Croatia has assumed the obligation to confirm and implement a protocol to remove illicit trade in tobacco products. The flow provides for the adoption of measures that will prevent illegal trade in tobacco products, such as the issue of authorisations for the production, import and export of tobacco products, by setting up a traceability and monitoring system for all tobacco products produced, imported or imported. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Furthermore, sanctioning for any illicit form of trade in tobacco products, which of course includes production, smuggling and wholesale. The Republic of Croatia, like all countries in the environment, faces the need to prevent corruption, especially through the activities and work of state bodies. Despite the anti-trafficking measures that are constantly being undertaken and continued activities by competent authorities, especially customs and police, the latest trends show that existing activities remain insufficient to address this problem. Successfully countering cigarette smuggling requires a more comprehensive and organised approach, in response to the rapid reactions of organised cross-border crime, to any activity taken by our competent authorities. It is precisely the implementation of this Protocol that ensures the introduction of effective controls, total production and transactions related to tobacco and tobacco products in free zones and effective measures for the submission of total duty-free sales, as well as the regulation of the sale of tobacco products via the Internet, telecommunications or any other development technology. In this connection, the Protocol will allow all necessary measures to be taken in accordance with national legislation, and all for the purpose of increasing the effectiveness of competent authorities, including customs and police, responsible for preventing, detecting, investigating and processing all forms of illicit trafficking in tobacco, tobacco products and manufacturing equipment, resulting in a reduction in the illicit trade of the products concerned and equipment for their production. From the above, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135324	Thank you. The SDP representative club, should have spoken to the respected representative Nenad Stazic, is missing. He's losing his right to speak. The individual debate was attended by a respected representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. We will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135325	Final proposal of the Act confirming the protocol on the removal of illicit trade in tobacco products, second reading, P.Z. No. 605, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the protocol on the removal of illicit trade in tobacco products. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 96 for and 2 abstentions, have been passed by that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135326	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog, second reading, P.Z. No. 496. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Maria Pleikosa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135327	Appreciated MPs and MPs, 1998. A Law on the movement of a blind person with the help of a guide dog has been adopted as the need to sensitize citizens on the rights, possibilities and needs of blind persons has then emerged, and awareness of the need for the free movement of blind persons with dog guides. In addition to the Association for the Education of Guide Dogs and Mobility, which under that law has public authority since 1998. A number of associations have been established with the aim of including specially trained assistant dogs and their leaders in different therapeutic, educational and other activities with different user groups. These facts contribute to the fact that circumstances have arisen to establish a more modern legal framework that would define the activity of providing assistance and support to users by using a dog assistant and a therapeutic dog, extended the circle of associations, legal or physical persons who carry out the assistance and support activities by using a dog assistant extended the circle and the rights of the assistant dog users. Thus, the proposed normative solution establishes a legislative framework for the provision of assistance and support to the use of a dog by an assistant or a therapeutic dog in order to acquire the independence of assistant dog users or a therapeutic dog in performing daily activities, as well as to increase the quality of life, as well as the conduct of a therapeutic or rehabilitation procedure. Furthermore, service providers are defined as well as ways of training users and other persons, as well as the process of socialising and training the dog for the assistant dog and the therapeutic dog. The legal consequences of preventing the exercise of rights and the way in which activities are financed shall be prescribed. The proposed normative solution extends the regional possibility of carrying out the assistance and support activities by using the assistant dog or the therapeutic dog. HS held at its 10th session on 3 December 2018. In conclusion, he accepted the proposal of the Act on the Use of the Assistant Dog. The final proposal for a law does not give way to the adopted draft law. Amendments have been made in the sense that a dog on socialization should wear an appropriate label. The dog that schools can be owned by users, and additionally arranged access and stay at a health institution. On the other proposals and opinions given in the first reading, the applicant provided detailed reasons why he could not accept the proposals. The following is proposed to adopt the Act on the Use of the Assistant Dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135328	We've got a replica of the esteemed Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135329	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here I would just like to ask you a series of reasons that you've given regarding the extension of the users of the therapeutic dog, can children with behavioral disorders also be users of a therapeutic dog?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135330	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135331	Of course I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135332	Before we continue to greet at the Gallery of Students and Students of the First Technical School of Tesla from Zagreb... And now we're going to go on, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? [[Applause]] No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, so the first one will be the HDZ Representatives' Club in the name of which Ljubica Lukacic's respected representative will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, as the State Secretary mentioned on December 3rd on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the Croatian Parliament adopted a conclusion on the adoption of this law in the first reading. Here's not much time passed the law came back on our benches and made me especially happy since I know how much he means to users of dogs guides or therapeutic dogs and to those who work to get their dogs as soon as possible. So, back in 1990, there was only one association in Croatia, an association that engulfed the Association for the School of Guide Dogs and Mobility. She pointed out what was needed primarily at that time was a talk about blind people and then to other people with disabilities and what it means when they have a dog helper next to them. In this way, the Guides and Mobility Association has sensitised the public and this has resulted in the adoption of a law on the movement of a blind person with the help of a guide dog. After that, the law was passed, the rule, so the law in 1998, and the rule of '99. And here it is to this day it has been done according to this law. However, Silver Rehabilitation Centre, which is a social care facility for training people with visual impairment for orientation and mobility with the help of a guide dog, was also established. Institutes for training persons with physical or intellectual damage to the use of a rehabilitation dog and this centre has in some ways taken over a part and a role of the Guides and Mobility Association. However, it has been shown that this law that has been in force so far is still until the entry into force of this new law, it is no longer enough that some things need to be settled better. In Croatia, along with the Association for Dogs Guides and Mobility and the Centre of Silver, there are several other organizations that work to train certain dogs as soon as possible to help people with disabilities, regardless of whether they are blind persons or persons with physical disabilities. This law, therefore, establishes a legislative framework that solves everything that has not been addressed in an adequate manner so far. Therefore, it is established to carry out activities, provide assistance and support by using a dog assistant or a therapeutic dog to acquire user independence, which is, I would say, the most important. The definition of the provision of services covering the activity of using the assistant dog shall be established. Furthermore, the regulation and obligations of the assistant dog users, the definition of how to train users and other persons to use the assistant dog, the definition of the socialisation process and the training of the dog for the assistant dog or the therapeutic dog, the definition of education, the regulation of the legal consequences of preventing the exercise of rights or criminal penalties and the prescribing of methods of financing the activity. When I read this law from the beginning to the end, I must admit that I was impressed by Article 8, I will tell you why. For many years now, both from the Silver Centre and also from the Guide Dog Education Association and Mobility, there have been repeated remarks that in the Republic of Croatia persons with disabilities used by guide dogs or therapeutic dogs do not allow entry into certain institutions, especially health institutions. So we had not a small number of remarks that people with disabilities were going to rehab and that they were not allowed to have their dog helper or rehabilitation dog side by side while they were in rehab. Now this law has been resolved and I believe that many people with disabilities will now have fewer or less problems in that part because it is extremely important for them to move. When we talk about rehabilitation facilities, I believe that you are all aware that these institutions are not about clean hospital, classical hospital treatment, but they are institutions for rehabilitation and a dog assistant in that part can be of exceptional benefit only. As the State Secretary mentioned this final bill proposal in relation to the proposal in the first reading, it differs as much as the Government has accepted certain proposals, and here in this section I was just saying that in certain segments, in certain health institutions when it comes to specialised treatment, the assistant dog could not benefit. Of course, that is also to be understood because there are health situations and people with disabilities themselves when in that part of the dog there is not much help, but wherever possible and where it is necessary as I mentioned the rehabilitation facilities we must certainly enable the use of the helper dog or the rehabilitation dog. A number of proposals have been accepted and this legal text has become even more quality compared to the text in the first reading. Certain proposals that have not been accepted are clearly explained why, for which reasons they could not be accepted, and I am particularly pleased that the ministry in these arguments has led exclusively to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So here we're talking primarily about the right person with disabilities to use an assistant dog or a therapeutic dog. We at the HDZ Club think that this is a quality text, that this law will allow a greater number of people with disabilities to use an assistant dog or a therapeutic dog, and so that more dogs can be involved in education or education so that they can be able to work. Today, the Center of Silver and the Association for Dogs Guides and Mobility are not able to present all of this themselves, all of these needs are therefore allowed for more associations and natural and legal persons to do this job under the prescribed conditions of this law. As I have already mentioned in the HDZ Club, we believe that this is a quality text of the law, that it will be well received in the Croatian public, and that it has already, until it has been adopted, but of course it has already been read, caused great satisfaction among the users and those who are in this business. This we have had opportunities and experience since a large number of positive remarks and also positive reactions to this law have already arrived at our Committee on Health and Social Policy and to me personally, and I trust the Ministry itself. What is particularly important to say is that this law is made up of a large consensus and that the ministry in the making of this law has really included those who are already dealing with this work in the Republic of Croatia today, as well as those who need to use a guide dog or a rehabilitation dog. And finally here I want to once again commend the secretary of state for one of these well-made laws which, as I said, is made up of a great consensus and the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135334	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Marija Alfirev will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135335	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, I think it is important to point out that this law is and should be passed, that this law is necessary in order to regulate an activity that is extremely important. It's important for me to say first of all for people with disabilities, but also for all other people whose dog or hope we have some other law, I'd say animals that help achieve greater quality of life. This is, this activity is important to regulate. First of all, because of the users themselves, and later on, we'll see who all the users are, the users, but also the animals because of the dog. This law really requires that we take care of what benefits are to the users themselves but also to, and indeed, what this law adopts or regulates so that in this case, a dog who is also a helper or in some way help in the conduct of therapy, an assistant in the conduct of therapy, could remain healthy, could be functional and indeed be functional, and I would say the rights, the right of a dog as an assistant and the right of a dog as a therapeutic dog, indeed. I think we really need to take care of that when we're making this, also respect all those remarks, all those people who talk in that direction. This law, so I'm going to start now from this beginning, says that what you stated in the very explanation and later on in the first reading discussion, is that first of all, the law that helps people with disabilities. And I really accept that, and I think it was an intensity, even in the very passing of laws and in the very creation of this law. However, when the term therapeutic dog began to be used, it may have been necessary to take care of something else that the therapeutic dog as such was not only, so it is not only a dog that helps people with disabilities or children with developmental disabilities, but it can really be helpful for others. Perhaps this was to be guided, but it was to be taken into account, so when it went to the expansion of the user circle, it was indeed to be taken into account. Keeping in mind that the current practice of some organizations in Croatia, which as users do not only have persons with disabilities or children with developmental difficulties, has some other users. So a circle of users that doesn't fall under this, for example. children in schools or defenders who do not necessarily have disability or some kind of chronic disease, but through their own, so these organisations are precisely including a therapeutic dog in the implementation of some activities that we can really underline under therapeutic, preventive, and in some ways rehabilitating that it was indeed necessary to take care of and thus extend the circle of users and cover this activity and this activity or activities of some organisations that are engaged in these activities. Whether, therefore, my question is also addressed, whether the activities of these organisations in this case will remain outside this law, whether these activities will be covered, whether they should be allowed to deal with these activities, how these activities will be controlled, because it seems to me that some of the programmes they are carrying out are funded by a series of projects or programmes financed by domestic ministries. So it would be really good to hear in this final proposal to discuss the final bill really about what you are proposing to say about it, because I would really regret that valuable, valuable programs, valuable activities of all these organisations remain somewhere on the side or that they are disabled to actually do this job, thereby really contributing to the quality of life of children or to the quality of work, to the quality of learning of children, to all children who are covered by basic or middle education, and also to some other groups that may be covered or are covered by their programmes. So I can also ask if they are covered, included, and persons who are, say, victims of violence, are they covered by this programme? I can also ask if it's good, so the treatment dog's contribution is precisely to working with people who may be victims of violence? So it seems to me that, if it were to be here, you didn't put it here, but I hope that in some other law, then in the implementation of this law, it will either expand or there will be changes and additions to this law itself, or there will be some new law where we will really include a larger circle of users and where we may also be able to trace new knowledge, modern knowledge, world knowledge and other animals and admit that some other animals are actually exceptional help in implementing certain therapeutic or rehabilitation procedures. I'm saying it seems to me, I think it would be a shame, I'm sorry that you haven't already taken care of it now, although I know that this is already a major shift and recognition of actually one activity already under way. But here you are really making sure that the present is already there, that good programmes are being implemented in Croatia, that we have really results in Croatia, and that, with the aim and purpose of recognising these results, the results of these programmes and projects, the efforts of all these people who are doing something that is not covered by this law, should nevertheless give them the importance of recognising that value through some future law. What I also want to mention is whether, somewhere, you are not even seen in the first reading, whether in this first article and the first one in the assistant dog user is mentioned in the second part, the second part when you speak to a child with developmental difficulties, is mentioned and which activity with a dog assistant or a therapeutic dog is performed exclusively with the assistant dog manager. This whole, point 1 speaks of the assistant dog user but in one part of it is mentioned a therapeutic dog so I don't know if it missed it or if it was really intentional, but it seems to me it's excess and it should be because it's described in 2 points, point 2 that tells the user of the therapeutic dog describes something else, so I don't know that it's excess, but maybe you have a better explanation. What I want to mention, and already here I am all the time talking about is that it is really good to listen to some others, so those who express concern and understand this concern, because they already have enough knowledge, have enough experience and therefore I do not think it is good to ignore and not respect one part of those remarks that is made by someone else, especially when one such activity is carried out in the area of almost the Republic. I especially mention it because one of these organizations is also engaged in its activities in the area of Sibenik-Knin County, so I think it is very worth mentioning, because they are also talking about this need for a therapeutic dog to be truly and in this law should, indeed, define it as a living being that is and that it is really kept in mind what it says in the simplest words that, for example, it is. if the dog does not respond or if he feels any negative emotion, it can indeed pose a major risk to the user himself. Indeed, therefore, I know that you are referring to certain standards in training and later use of the helper dog and the therapeutic dog, but throughout the whole law, this should actually feel that we need to respect the dog as a living being and take responsibility for what is happening to him because by taking that responsibility, we also take responsibility for the user himself. Therefore, I do not only view this law as something that is, which will regulate this activity, but I experience as a sort of regulation of responsibilities, indeed responsibilities towards both the user and the dog. What I would like to point out here is that, what they were saying, therefore, is that this organization itself, which is a well-being means that the dog himself creates a positive atmosphere, brings joy, reduces stress, accepts children as they are, which often do not get children, when we talk about children themselves, is not derived from educational institutions, sometimes, from families and significant contributions to development and empathy and tolerance, which certainly has a huge contribution to prevention among peers, as well as all other forms of violence, when we are talking about indeed violence, and these are indeed all the results of the programs of these organisations that they have carried out. And to go back really, to responsibility, we know, here, which means having a dog just after the last unkind events, which were witnesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135336	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Bridge of Independent Lists, in the name of which will be spoken by the respected representative Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The bridge of the uninvited lists, will support this law, we believe that it is good, therefore, that it is necessary to pass this law as soon as possible. We also express our satisfaction that some of our remarks have been accepted, some of them have not, but we feel that the necessity of adopting this law is more important than any of our objections. They are also praised solutions that define the activity of using the assistant dog, extend the circle of legal persons carrying out the activity, as well as the circle of the assistant dog users, redefine the types of dogs used for help, extend the rights of the assistant dog users, and define the rights of others, who participate in the socialisation process, the training of the dog and the education of persons. This bill will extend the regional ability to carry out activities, provide assistance, support to users using the helper dog, which will make it easier for users to access services, use of the assistant dog and through the will of the regional representation of the service provider, and extend the circle of users of the assistant dog or of the therapeutic dog. The difference from the first reading, the final draft law, contains certain amendments and additions and nomotechnic supplementation, the proposal of Mosta was accepted, and is in Art. 8 of the final proposal of the law, additionally that the socialisation dog must also have an appropriate label, and a new paragraph 4 is added, which states that the exceptional provisions of paragraph 2, access to stay at a health institution and may be limited due to the need to apply specific health conditions of treatment for users. A proposal from counterpart Tomislav Sauceha was also accepted, in front of the HNS Club, that the schooling dog may be in the owner of the user and is further decorated. The 17th final draft of the law was also adopted, and the reason for the regulation is complemented by data on existing service providers and needs. For proposals not accepted, therefore, we believe that, if they are not now accepted, some other laws, especially the law on coverage, all interventions... So to the animals, this proposal was presented by Most and Mr. Sauch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We therefore believe that some other law should also bring the legal framework into line, as regards other animals. It is also not accepted our proposal that the previous consent of the Ministry of Science and Education should be requested for the exercise of activity, legal and physical persons. The proposal is not accepted, that, this, that, in relation to the health and physical condition of the dog veterinary examination, prior to inclusion and in the schooling programme, the applicant states that all obligations of the service providers are prescribed. So here, with these reservations, therefore, we feel that there is more necessity than declaring these laws than our proposals that have not been accepted we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135338	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS in which the respected representative Tomislav Satsuha will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected state tendons with an associate, we have a second reading of the draft Act on the use of the helper dog. We discussed this law quite extensively during the first reading, and then we argued that there was a very high consensus between all parliamentary representatives and all clubs in the Croatian Parliament and under consensus about the need to pass this new law and the content of this law. In fact, we all noticed that this law regulates itself in a good way, i.e. The circle spreads, both users, assistant dogs, therapeutic dogs and physical dogs, i.e. Legal persons involved in training, i.e. By training these helpers dogs, which will ultimately lead to the fact that the helpers dogs, the therapeutic dogs, will be easier accessible at the regional level, in the sense that they will be... For certain parts of Croatia, it is easier to be available, given that the current legal solution was only possible, i.e. Only one association could deal with this activity, now it will be possible to do more legal, i.e. Legal person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So some of the remarks that were made here in the debate during the first reading were accepted and included in this second, i.e. the final bill of law. I think it's a good thing that I thank the Ministry for that, too. The proposals from the Bridge and the proposal have been accepted, which is one of my proposals. And what is good is that they too have not been accepted. which have been rejected because of the position of the promoters that these norms are already contained in the existing bill, it is also a good solution if someone comes into the situation to protect some of their rights stemming from this law and, let's say in our opinion, was sufficiently clearly regulated in the legal norms since the interpretation of the law is an integral part of the law and what can be called upon in the exercise of the right, so in other words if any of the users of the dogs of the assistant or the therapeutic dogs could enter an institution or not, here now by reason of why some of our proposals have been rejected, by reason of the proposings now these things become more important and this is something that will have to be understood, of course, so that I think that the fact of rejecting the proposal is, not only by itself, a bad explanation. So to end, because I don't think there's really much to be done here, so we don't need to go into any details now, because we've already said it all for the first time, we've talked about the welfare of the dog, we've talked about how good the law is because it also predicts that dogs who, for example, didn't meet the norm in school will not end up saying it on the road, but will take adequate care of them, I think the law is both human and that these dogs really treat you like living beings and our four-legged friends. I'm sorry, I guess, I don't mean to assume, I know this law is impossible to resolve but let's think about maybe some special law to regulate and a situation where people in certain situations need to be with their pets, with their dogs and these dogs aren't helpers, they're not trained, but they mean a lot to them, and there's no way in the existing legislative framework that they come into contact with that pet. So we're specifically talking about situations where someone is in a hospital, someone finds himself in these conditions, and then let's say because the legal system is like that, that is. The legal framework so rigid, there's no way that this pet of his might see, hug, kiss, and so on in his last moments. Maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to leave some possibility for a dog to be given some kind of honorary title, i.e. The title of honorary dog guide or therapeutic dog modelling how certain persons can be assigned to the title of honorary doctor at the University of Zagreb. I think here's where we might learn something from that so we can give some body I don't know, not necessarily the Senate of the university, maybe the ministry the possibility of giving a dog the title of honorary guide, so that in this way a lot of problems can be solved and done at the end of the world to people who really need it as much joy as can be done to this gentleman who's got the title of honorary doctor. Here's some cynicism for the end, but I think everything in this law is very good and the HNS club will definitely support it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135340	Thank you. The individual debate was attended by a respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135341	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with an associate. Here I will continue here where my colleague Saucha stopped believing that this law would be unanimously passed in the Croatian Parliament after this second reading and I will only mention some of the things that happened in the meantime between the first and the second readings, we were called as a Croatian Parliament to one interparliamentary cooperation in the European Parliament held in the 2nd month. and in fact, this was agreed and due to the upcoming Presidency of the European Council of the Republic of Croatia 1.1.2019 and in fact there was a lot of talk about the relationship for persons with disabilities within the framework of the European Semester itself, and the European strategy for people with disabilities was actually mentioned. At that time, we said that we, as the Republic of Croatia, had actually brought a national strategy for people with disabilities to equalise opportunities for persons with disabilities by 2020, and we were actually able to hear in the European Parliament the experiences of other EU member states in which, right now, I can say, and we have done a lot in front of people with disabilities, and we don't really need to be ashamed of those things that are unfathomable for some countries that at least took part in the debate, talking about what problems people with disabilities are facing in their countries. So the goal of the policy for persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia was the openness and accessibility of all areas of life and the actions of persons with disabilities, and at that time we stated that the material status of persons with disabilities was improved, certain fees were increased to prevent poverty and increase the level of social security and legal changes were further motivated by persons with disabilities for inclusion in the world of work, in a systematic way the rights of children with difficulty in continuing, defined new secondary programmes were defined which should facilitate the employment of persons with disabilities, wider personal assistance services and significant means are directed towards deinstitutionalisation and dissemination programmes of extra-institutional services, and here we said some of their thinkings or things that happened in practice, with which we ourselves as a society we didn't want to do so in a different way, but thanks to God, we should actually constantly work on this project of deinstitutionalism, which is not really make it necessary for these institutions to do so much better. Regardless of these efforts, we must acknowledge that there are certain things that can be improved in our society and there is room for progress and it is particularly visible and has not been used until the end of the working potential of people with disabilities, a positive shift in accessibility is very large and the participation of competent public authorities is certain that far better results can be achieved. And what I've mentioned and these are shifts in the process of deinstitutionalisation that are not in themselves enough. I must say here that when the new Household Act came into force, we also thought about people with disabilities. And now we come to what I think is the key, which I was actually talking about and in my first reading debate, and this bill is now the final draft law on assistant dogs. So I suppose that's what my colleagues said today in their debate, primarily led by what was explained in the first draft of the law, which is about the need of an aide dog. Then we talked about the rehabilitation dog, about the therapeutic dog and about the dog for as a guide for the blind and the undersighted and the deaf. In view of the reason for all this going on about this law since '98. I'm not going to say that this is an epochal event that is related to people with disabilities, but it must be one very important thing in a person's life with disabilities. And that's why I'm glad that at least in the materials that I got and that I read in your explanation that happened between the two readings there are certain nomotechnical things that have actually been compared and done better and what was accepted for the label of the very therapeutic dog. So, once again, I commend all those people who were in the working group and all those who participated in the adoption of this law and I believe that this moment is also a matter of commending all those persons who are dealing with therapeutic dogs, it is primarily the center of Silver Association as well as some other association headed by Mrs. Mira Katalenić whom I have personally met and her actual work, extremely difficult work related to rehabilitation dogs that help people with disabilities. So I also commend all those who participated in this and I hope next Friday that we will bring this law to the joy of all persons with disabilities and those to whom this law will serve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135342	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135343	Final proposal of the Act on the Use of the Assistant Dog, second reading, P.Z. No. 496, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is concluded, and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 99 for and 1 abstentions, have been passed the Law on the use of the helper dog.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135344	Now we'll move on to the following law, which is: - Proposed law on courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 402 Proposer: The Club of the Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is the Proposing Club of the Representatives of the Most Independent Lists based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed representative Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135345	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we represent actually in this House of High Courts law. This law is aimed at rationalising courts. The relevant Law on Courts was adopted in 2013. After the adoption of the law in 2013, it has been amended a total of 4 times. In 2015, twice, then 2016 and the last amendment took place in July 2018 at the time this legislative proposal was sent to the procedure which entered into force on 1 January of this year. As I have already pointed out, this law is aimed at rationalising courts, so this law continues to rationalise, or is proposed. Unfortunately, in terms of information, we must recognise that this measure has not been fully successfully brought to an end since the maximum potential of modern technology, technology available to the Croatian judiciary, is still not being used today. The system's resistance to technology and the modernisation of the standing processes inherited from previous systems was strong. And that is what has led today to the great fragmentation of the judicial network as well as the passivity of the organization to everyday challenges. The standards that the Republic of Croatia needed to correct as a condition for full EU membership did not reach Croatia after 5 years of EU entry. During the negotiations in negotiating chapter 23, the Republic of Croatia was asked to invest all available resources and set out a clear national strategic framework that the Republic of Croatia could deal with with the difficult situation in which the judicial system was then located. Some of the key challenges under EU guidelines were to strengthen the management skills of body leaders, to make the process of appointing judges and presidents of courts transparent and objective, to strengthen and develop the role of judicial academy, to promote excellence, to strengthen system organisation, to balance the status of judges and judicial advisers, etc. The current amendments to the law in the area of the judiciary have not led, in our opinion, to the desired results and in particular not to the effective, transparent, responsible and professional organisations of the justice system. Following all this, it is necessary to approach the fundamental and comprehensive legislative amendments and this Law on Courts is part of a package of laws proposed by the Most Independent Lists as part of the full reform of the judiciary, the second law that is in the procedure is actually the Law on DSV. Key motives for law-making: ineffective organisation of work, incoherence of courts with other state institutions, unclear division of responsibility in the system, non-transparent and unequal procedures for assessing judges, lack of promotion of expertise and professionalism, incomplete and unconstitutional education of judges, were the underestimating position of judicial advisers as key motives for drawing up this law. The main objectives of this Law on Courts are: to strengthen the professionalisation of stakeholders in the judicial system, to strengthen the transparency of the work of courts, to unify the network of courts with a particular emphasis on secondary trial and, accordingly, to the rights and obligations of judicial officials. Define clearer responsibility in the system and make maximum use of existing capacities and resources to ensure that the functioning of the organisation is based on excellence and quality. Reduce unnecessary administrative steps and increase responsibility and mobility in the system. It shall be governed by the establishment, the delirious and the jurisdiction of the courts of Article 18 in the Republic of Croatia by the judicial authority of the basic courts, commercial courts, administrative courts, senior courts, appeals courts and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law in Articles 18 to 28 proposed the reorganisation of a network of first-degree and second-degree courts in such a way as to propose the merger of municipal and infringement courts in which infringement courts would cease to exist as an independent type of court and continue to operate in the context of so far-called municipal courts, whose proposal proposed to amend the name into basic courts. Trade and administrative courts are being held. Furthermore, the bill introduces senior courts as a new type of court whose jurisdiction would be to resolve cases currently in the jurisdiction of the county courts in the first degree and to resolve complaints against the resolution of other basic courts in criminal cases. Compared to the second-degree trial, the bill proposes the establishment of appeal courts and this through the merger of existing county and high courts. We have arranged and finally levelled the second-degree trial by putting an equal position in the judge of all the appeals courts, and we have formed appeal courts as courts of second degree. So in our draft, we propose a network of first-degree courts, basic, administrative and commercial courts and higher courts for serious criminal offences, now the county courts of first-degree courts, appeals courts and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Courts of appeals may be civil or criminal appeal. In a civil court of appeal, two departments of civil and administrative departments would act, the civil department itself would have a civil and commercial part. The Law on Areas and Seats of Courts will regulate this distribution. In this way we edit the network and create a new and regulated judicial environment in which the foundations of a transparent, efficient and professional judiciary in the Republic of Croatia should be re-established. We are significantly increasing specialisation and mobility. The Specific Law on Areas and Seats of Courts will define how many courts, which species would form in relation to the present situation. Furthermore, this law also discussed the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in a way that changes the jurisdiction to resolve complaints against first-degree decisions in criminal cases completely to appeal courts, thus significantly discharging the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the most inefficient courts in Croatia, according to recent analyses. The addition of the procedure for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia through Articles 51 and 52 is also proposed, and the obligation to elect the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is introduced exclusively from the order of the judges of that court. By respecting the constitutional legal standard of this law, we have clearly defined the application procedure for the President of the Supreme Court, all of which for the transparency of the procedure or for strengthening the confidence of citizens in the judiciary. The procedure would be initiated by the DSV, the publication of a public invitation to determine candidates, draw up an opinion on candidates and submit applications to the general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to give an opinion. All opinions shall be forwarded to the President of the Republic of Croatia who shall make a proposal to the Assembly. A system of powers and responsibilities of the President of the Court of Justice has been set up to carry out the affairs of the judicial administration. A mandatory education of the President of the Courts is also being introduced, as well as a more detailed examination of the procedure for the adoption of amendments to the annual schedule of tasks. The work of the courts shall be public except where the Constitution or the law excludes the participation of the public, judicial discussions may be recorded by means of an audio-video recording device in accordance with the law. The average number of cases of a particular type solved by judges of the same degree by the Ministry of Justice each year on 31 January and published on the website. We believe that the elimination of framework criteria and the transition to the complexity assessment system is one of the most important reform criteria that have greatly affected productivity and strengthening the justice system itself. The proposed Article 88 was also amended as regards the salary allowance when assessed with excellent conduct of judicial duty. It has also been amended in Article 93, which is that the judge must not be a member of the political party or run for president of the Republic of Croatia, elections for MPs in the Croatian Parliament, or local elections. Article 97 of the Judge shall be subject to the cases which have been assigned to him in his work by order of their entry into the Court of Justice, taking into account the cases which have been identified as urgent or as cases of special interest in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, these proposed amendments strengthen the provisions of the infringement procedure of the Code of Justice and the adoption of the Code and the establishment of a specific Ethics Commission. A new system of judicial advisers is being created with three levels, a judicial adviser, a senior court advisor and a senior court advisor specialist. In this way, the work of judicial advisors is professionalised and further valued, and it is promoted to retain the highest quality personnel in the system. More consistently, the tasks of the judicial and judicial academy are defined more clearly, and the powers of the directors of the judiciary and the Registrar of the Court are defined accordingly. The judicial councils shall be suspended and their powers shall be delegated to the State Judicial Council, and shall simplify the procedure for determining compliance with the judicial obligations. Provisions on permanent court interpreters, experts and appraisers and insurance and protection of persons shall be set out, objects of the property of courts intended to regulate specific laws. Clear structures should be set up in the witch evaluation system, as well as objective criteria for the appointment and control of their work. It is precisely this proposal that was referred to the parliamentary procedure in 2018, and it is actually aimed at rationalising the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135346	Thank you very much. If the committee reporter wants to take the floor, here's a pardon we have one replica of the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135347	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Chikotic, from HSS, we agree that it is necessary to reform the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia because all citizens, as well as entrepreneurs and potential investors in the Republic of Croatia, say that as a state, we have too much legislation to change it too often, as well as that court proceedings take too long and that courts in the same cases have different courts and that in some ways corruption is present through the judiciary or we are certainly with those courts who say they have a good number of cases, many resolved cases, and you cannot reward them for their work. So we also need to ensure both material and technical conditions, but also pay and the possibility of progress of judges. And what you've announced is the special seat law we're asking for to return to headquarters. The municipal court in Nova Gradiška and Samobor. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135348	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135349	Dear colleague, that is exactly how this Law on Courts speaks of the need for two things, which is information and rationalization. This legislative proposal focuses on the rationalisation of courts, and all to strengthen the direct system, in order to strengthen the transparency of the appointment of judges and the supervision of the work of judges, so that the case that first came to work, the first one was actually completed. So, not to stand in a drawer, not to become obsolete, but in fact that citizens can through that system that we all pay to welcome their justice, and we plan to achieve this precisely through defining clearer responsibilities and maximum use of existing procedures in the system, and also increase transparency by eliminating unnecessary administrative steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135350	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yes, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135351	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the government does not accept the draft law in question for several key reasons. First of all, this proposal contains some similar solutions that we have made to the amendments to the law of July 2018 so that a large part of this proposal that has been accepted and in reasonable frameworks has already been incorporated into a law that is currently in force. As regards the proposal of the Proposer on the full reform of the judiciary or the Law on Courts, neither the Law on the State Judicial Council can constitute a full reform of the judiciary, so only on the note of the representatives and representatives of the Assembly that in the last 2 years, the Ministry of Justice through the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law on Courts, the Law on the Justice Academy, the Law on the Law on Law of Laws currently in the procedure of a new Executive Act, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Court Register, the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on Land Books, the whole of the law, which so far is 14 laws. Therefore, judicial reform cannot be seen closely through 2 laws but through the reform of the entire system. As far as modernization, digitisation, system information in all the above laws that I have mentioned is one of the key reforms and changes in laws, so for the future alone, the new Executive Law will have an entirely e-profect, electronic performance in such a way that it will be much cheaper, faster first of all for our perpetrators. As for certain proposals on the reorganisation of the network of courts, when we compared our law and the proposal of the promoter of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, it fully contains proposals that the neighbouring state of the Republic of Serbia already has in its judicial system. Such a way and the organisation of courts proved ineffective with a much larger number of pending cases than in the Republic of Croatia. As regards the jurisdiction of the State Judicial Council and the motion to abolish the immunity of judges in the Republic of Croatia in particular of high courts and criminal courts, what is important is that this would significantly undermine the independence of the judicial system, if a breach of the judicial duty occurs, the State Judicial Council at any time removes the immunity of judges. As regards the shortening of the deadlines to the President of the Supreme Court for submitting the report on the state of the judicial authority that the President of the Court is obliged to submit to the Croatian Parliament, we consider it to be an appropriate time limit for the President of the Supreme Court in view of the extent of jurisdiction and the extent of the report that the President of the Court gives to the Croatian Parliament. In conclusion, what we said at the beginning is that already existing law has introduced some newspaper proposed by the applicant, and for others we believe that neither the conditions are met, nor certain proposals in their scope would serve and represent the true reform of the Croatian judicial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135352	We have one replica of your presentation, honourable representative Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135353	... The judicial law and the MOST of independent lists also have them ready and will guide them safely into the procedure, and as far as the system itself is concerned, when you and digitise certain processes then citizens walk further from the institution to the institution, and what is interesting is that you have very well informed the e-provision system in a way that actually those who mix properties can buy them very cheaply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you, from this point on, I'm warning you that auctioning is happening in the last second, in the last 5 seconds, and that another bidder has no right to make a bigger offer, and that's actually unfair. It's unfair for those whose real estate is on the line, and it leaves a number of actually vultures who over these properties then buy them for cheap money. I would ask you to correct this injustice because that is what bothers Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135354	The answer... Secretary of State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135355	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I would only say that there is a complete change in the executive system. You've already been able to read in public, we've said that on 4 or 5 round tables of public exposure, completely changing this system that you're now criticizing, so all the key points that we've seen are controversial, the Ministry of Justice has changed. I hope, when the new Executive Act comes here to the Assembly, that you will all be satisfied with the new solutions and that MOST will support the law, such as we and your proposal, which you worked with us when you were in government, support with some changes, so, if there is a goodwill, for all citizens together we can bring quality reform laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135356	Thank you. Before I open the debate, allow me to welcome the students and students of Croatian Studies from Zagreb, who are watching us from the gallery. ... Even though we're few, we're left. [[Applause.]] I am now opening the debate and the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Bacic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135357	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, Secretary of State, respected proposings and colleagues and fellow MPs. On the basis of Art. 172. HS's Rules of Procedure to HS President, the Most Representatives' Club sent this bill. Proposal for a Law on Courts. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts entered into force on 1 January 2019. The procedure within 6 organisational laws, including the Law on Courts, is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just mentioned to us, on behalf of the Government, the State Secretary and the whole reconstruction and analysis that they have carried out and the amendment of the law relating to the judiciary. Transparency, independence and impartiality of the judicial system are essential for the stable functioning of society and the economy, the exercise of citizens' rights, legal certainty, public order and are a prerequisite for effective control of corruption. The existing constitutional and legislative frameworks were a good legal basis for strengthening independence, the efficiency of the Croatian judiciary. The openness of judicial authorities allows for the receipt of up-to-date and reliable information from the public interest and their independence and impartial action, one of the assumptions of a quality judicial system. As we look at the reform of the judiciary in its comprehensiveness and layering, it is clear that it was impossible to make such a strategically important decision for the functioning of the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia to make some kind of quick and short decision, and what is said in the ministries is a recording of the existing situation. The analysis outlined the review of all courts in the Republic of Croatia, classified according to their real and local jurisdiction, the number of judges, staff, their burden on the number of residents in the area of jurisdiction of the court, i.e.... Articles, taking into account the structure of the subject, working conditions, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The recommendations for further progress are based on established criteria such as the geographical positions of the court and the area covered by the court, the number of inhabitants, the type and the number of cases. For the purpose of an independent and impartial judiciary, co-ordinated interventions are aimed at implementing structural change, reorganisation and rationalisation of the judicial and state-owned network, reduction of the number of pending cases, rational use of the judicial system, or discharge of the courts themselves by the number of cases. The current law also defined the new system of the network of courts, which is at the same time rational, not reducing citizens' right to access and information, but also access to the courts themselves. Such a system itself requires and certain infrastructure changes in investment, we know that in our courts at these times there were no reconstructions of the buildings themselves and the lease of certain spaces, their only equipment, information, etc. The strict redefining of the affairs of the judicial and judicial administration, i.e. the official working relationship of the director of the judicial administration, the person who assists the President in the work, is necessary in order to carry out professional administrative technical and other tasks in a timely manner. The following sets out a series of measures that have been taken to bring the objective and the very reform of the judiciary closer together, including clear and objective confidential criteria and mechanisms for quality evaluation of the work of all judges. The judge is the applicant of the proceedings of the trial, and the constitutional guarantees of independence and independence refer to them in full terms, as the holder of the judicial authority. Since the salaries of judges and other judicial officials themselves are important and the social economic element, they are regulated by a special law. As such, the law should respect non-creation of wages for the result of work because they are closely linked to the independent and impartial position of the judges themselves. The Presidents of the Courts, under the provisions of earlier laws, shall carry out, in addition to the affairs of the judicial administration and the affairs relating to personal and personnel matters, the supervision and evaluation of judges, judicial advisers and court practitioners. Dispersal of judges and the release of administrative and technical affairs leaves room for personal education and familiarisation with court practice, especially after frequent amendments to legal provisions and regulations. Continued ongoing work on their professional training is a condition without which the judicial system and the persons working in it cannot be expected to be able to respond to all these requirements. Participation and success in professional training programmes is an element of the assessment of the conduct of the judicial activity itself. It is in line with the government's very opinion and this brief report by both the Government and the State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice, respecting the judicial reform carried out at these times by the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and based on the opinion of the Justice Committee, the HDZ Club does not support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135358	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll stop for today, then we'll continue tomorrow, Friday, March 29th at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Land Books, first reading, P.Z. No. 603. Have a good afternoon. Session interrupted at 14.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-28-0.u135359	Proposal for a Court Act, first reading, P.Z. number 402. The promoter is the MOST of Independent Lists, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Courts is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 76 for, 8 abstentions and 5 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
